rapporteur. – mr president, i want to acknowledge the important role of the court of auditors in preparing these reports. i am dealing with four reports relating to the dairy sector, the cereals sector and swine fever involving total spending of approximately eur 16 billion, which is a considerable proportion of the budget. the study by the court of auditors involves a great deal of detail and we must acknowledge the important role it plays in assisting parliament in its work, because, obviously, without this interaction between the court of auditors and parliament, parliament would be in no position to evaluate or judge the effectiveness of commission spending. we can also acknowledge that the court of auditors plays a role in assisting the commission to identify weaknesses in its administration and difficulties which it may not have observed in the way member states implement our various schemes. the court of auditors, in this particular report, has drawn attention to the weaknesses in the basic regulations, weaknesses which make it difficult for the commission and indeed even the member states to effectively control spending. in the special report on the reform of the cereals sector, the court of auditors has drawn attention to the question of whether or not the policy itself attains its economic and social objectives. to go back to the dairy sector – there are two reports here, one relating to skimmed-milk powder, the other to butter – we should remember that even though we have a quota system which is designed to bring production close to the level of consumption, we still have to spend approximately eur 3 000 million a year disposing of surpluses, and of the skimmed-milk powder which we produce something like only 37% of it is sold at market value. in other words, the rest of it must be subsidised for use in animal feed and other things. similarly, in the case of butter, only 75% of the butter we produce is sold at market prices. this identifies the weaknesses in the policies where we have a quota system and at the same time require vast community resources to subsidise surpluses. the court of auditors' report – and parliament supports this – draws attention to the fact that we should perhaps utilise our resources better in a way that might encourage greater consumption of dairy products on our european markets, rather than subsidising unused quantities. in the cereals sector, the main concern of the court of auditors was the fact of overcompensation which has been well documented and which we acknowledge, and it also draws attention to the fact that it is necessary in designing policy at all levels – commission, council and parliament – to take account of market changes. when we designed this policy we did not foresee the rise in world prices which led to gross overcompensation in the sector. the report also draws attention to the fact, and parliament notes this, that something like 40% of all the eur 14 billion spent in the cereals sector goes to 3% of farmers, and 54% of farmers only get approximately 5% of the aid. this again draws attention to the whole thrust of the policy and whether or not we should review it with the idea of making it more compatible with regional policy and with social policy. these were the main concerns expressed. we should also say in relation to the cereals sector or to the dairy sector that we have noted that the commission has undertaken a root and branch review of the policy and has already set that study in motion. so we look forward to its completion. i want to thank the commission for its cooperation and the fact that it has already taken action on some of the weaknesses identified in the various reports.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. – mr president, i wish to begin by welcoming mr dell'alba's report and its recognition that the international fund for ireland and the peace and reconciliation fund are an innovative means of consolidating the peace process. the difficult environment in which the funds have had to operate, their role as a pump primer, the approach in giving priority to disadvantaged areas and the unique role in pioneering the joint management and delivery of cross-border programmes have all been given the recognition they deserve. i understand that the international fund for ireland has produced a comprehensive response to the issues raised in the court of auditors' report, which can be made available to members. that response includes a number of specific actions that the fund is taking to address matters raised in the report. it is important to stress one crucial point in relation to the international fund for ireland: this is not a european union programme. the fund is, in fact, an international organisation with its own governing body, rules, audit procedures and so on. furthermore, the european union is just one of five donors involved in its financing. the european union's annual contribution constitutes 35% of the total. the international fund for ireland was established by the british and irish governments in 1986 with the objective of promoting economic and social advance and encouraging contact, dialogue and reconciliation between the unionists and nationalists throughout ireland. contributors to the fund are the united states, the european union, canada, new zealand and australia. since the fund was set up it has provided assistance of eur 597 million to 4 600 projects, which have helped to create 38 000 jobs, leading to an additional investment of approximately eur 1.193 billion, bringing the overall investment in these projects to almost eur 1.79 billion; directed almost 90% of its commitments to the most deprived areas; encouraged over 9 000 participants in cross-community groups and encouraged 5 000 participants in cross-border structures.
mr president, as a member of parliament representing that part of ireland which benefits from both the ifi and the peace and reconciliation fund, i would like to praise the track record of both these funds, and as a representative who works closely with the local groups and projects making excellent use of the funds i would like to state that i am perfectly satisfied that all monies disbursed through the funds are rigorously accounted for. the ifi and the peace fund are unique funds so it is understandable that certain misunderstandings should have arisen owing to a lack of familiarity with the special nature and operation of these funds. as was pointed out previously, the eu makes a major contribution together with the united states, canada, australia and new zealand. the fund has committed in excess of £400 million which has triggered an investment of £1.2 billion creating 38 000 jobs for 150 projects right across the border countries and northern ireland. i deem it wholly inappropriate that the committee on budgetary control should question the effectiveness of the ifi funding system. i believe that these funds have made a major contribution towards the peace process and that mr dell'alba should familiarise himself a little more in detail with these funds. i would invite him to visit northern ireland and the border countries and to see the situation for himself.
mr president, on a point of order. as more and more members come into the chamber, i would like to announce a welcome innovation. we have today opened a smoking zone behind the hemicycle, a lovely sunny place with lots of good views. i hope that all colleagues who continue to ruin their health by smoking, will find themselves comfortably installed outside the chamber and will stop smoking in the non-smoking zones. i hope everybody has heard that. (applause)
in writing. - the main idea of this report is the need for increased european cooperation in the evaluation of the quality of education in our school systems within the eu. this could be a very valuable exercise because the various eu governments can mutually benefit from the successful education programmes that have been tried and tested within education systems in europe. we should also remember that this is even more important in the new information society in which we now live. last year, eu leaders in lisbon set out a framework of proposals that would extend internet training to all primary and secondary schools in the european union. this is a key social and economic objective if the european union is to benefit from the new e-commerce and related commercial activities. the reality is that new information technologies are constantly evolving. this means that academic training in the field of information technology is also constantly evolving. this is why the european union must respond in a coordinated and structured way to ensure that the best educational methods in the field of information technology are available to all students. this will ensure a better quality of education and a stronger foundation to encourage the creation of information technology industries in the european union. in recent years, cooperation in the field of education has proved fruitful within the european union. currently, 18 countries participate in the erasmus programme, including countries in central and eastern europe. nearly 90,000 students benefit from this initiative each year. while i welcome the proven success of the erasmus initiative, i would like to remind you that there is certainly room for improvement in the way this programme is currently managed within the european union. students still face financial problems when studying abroad. i do not support a system of inequality between the levels of funding available to students from the various member states participating in the programme. i urge the ministers of education in the eu to put in place a system that eliminates any element of inequality in the management of the erasmus programme. we should bear in mind that the european union's policy of encouraging students to study in other member states is excellent. this offers real opportunities for students to improve their practical language skills while encouraging the free movement of people throughout the eu.
mr president, speakers have drawn attention to a number of problems, including cigarette smuggling. i support their concern as it is generally believed that international criminals are now more interested in cigarette smuggling than drug-trafficking as it is more profitable and less dangerous. we in the eu must respond to this problem as a matter of urgency. the profits from cigarette smuggling not only line the pockets of criminals but also deny revenue to the eu, which would otherwise be used in tackling cancer, poverty, the promotion of human rights, etc. in addition, cheaper cigarettes mean greater danger to health because of heavier tobacco consumption, and we must enlist the support of ministers in national and regional governments in any campaign against this. the commission should contact in particular the ministers of health and education in the northern ireland assembly, ms de brun and mr martin mcguinness. i mention that because we use education and health programmes to combat cancer and the anderstown news recently revealed the deep involvement of the ira in illicit cigarette smuggling. they have links to that organisation. what better way to discharge the ministerial portfolio than to encourage their friends to stop this activity. it also underlines a greater need for widespread policing in northern ireland.
mr president, the drinking-water directive, waste-management directive, major accident hazards, sewage sludge, asbestos, wild birds, waste shipment, not to mention the habitats directive, the nitrates directive and the pcb directive. the list is long, the list of the failure of my own country to transpose eu environmental law. despite warning letters, reasoned opinions, threats of legal action to the european court of justice, so it embarrassingly continues. we are second worst in terms of transposition and designation of sites under the habitats directive. sometimes, but rarely, there can be genuine reasons for delayed transposition of a directive and the nitrates directive has come in for particular mention in this regard here today. but to fail to provide information requested by the commission under article 10 of the treaty in a timely and proper manner is inexcusable. that is the first step: reply to the letters of the commission. no government should be forgiven bad manners and inappropriate behaviour. that is one of ireland's and, i suspect, many countries' cardinal sins in relation to the area we are discussing. article 10 requires member states to actively cooperate with the commission in dealing with complaints, to clarify facts and to state official positions. only last weekend i read in the irish media that the head of the commission's environment dg, mr curry, complained to ireland's eu ambassador, mr denis o'leary, last autumn that the irish authorities were not cooperating adequately with brussels on environmental issues. commissioner wallström wrote last march to the irish minister of the environment, mr dempsey, suggesting that the large number of irish environmental complaints currently being dealt with by the eu officials be dealt with in his department or by the irish ombudsman. no joy, no progress, perhaps even no response – i do not know. with 1% of the community's population, to our shame we in ireland have been generating 10% of the commission's environmental complaints. mr curry had strong words for not only our department of the environment but also our department of finances policies, our environmental protection agency, our heritage protection agency and, indeed, our local authorities. sensitive and sensible implementation must be encouraged to ensure political and public cooperation and understanding of what we have to achieve. i often give the example – as i did at a committee meeting this morning – of the survival of the only cotton-weed colony in ireland in the south-east corner of wexford. this is on a local pilgrimage path. in its over-zealousness to protect the cotton-weed, the local council decided to ban the pilgrimage from the immediate area. it very quickly became apparent that the trampling of the pilgrims' feet and not divine intervention had, in fact, been essential to protect that particular ecosystem. stronger and more vigorous species, better known colloquially as ‘weeds’ – even though they are all wild flowers – gained a foothold in the colony and began to choke off the cotton-weed once human intervention was gone. changing the essential balance between human activity and our environment led to the loss of this precious ecosystem. finally, it must not be a case of the last person off the island turning the lights off. we have to live and earn a living in these places. equally we cannot continue to mortgage our children's health and heritage.
mr president, i want to commence by complimenting the rapporteur on his very well-researched and objective report which i and my group have no difficulty in supporting. in the context of agenda 2000, very credible efforts were made to deal with the serious problem of succession in european agriculture. a re-vamped farm retirement scheme, installation aid and other measures may not, however, achieve our desired objective and in my view the problem must be revisited as a matter of urgency, otherwise the continuity of family farming will be put at serious risk. apart from the seriously upsetting and devastating consequences of bse, which i believe will be overcome, the real problem for young people who in normal circumstances would take up farming as a career is the availability, welcome though it is, of alternative and certainly more financially rewarding employment. farmers and non-farmers must face this reality and do so before it is too late. farming as a profession has the onerous responsibility of guaranteeing our citizens food security and quality, and we must act to safeguard the productive base of european agriculture by ensuring that young people with the ethos of farming in their blood are appropriately encouraged and compensated. i realise that many small farms do not have the capacity to generate sufficient income for their owners because of scale and enterprise. i believe we must do more to assist those interested in a restructuring programme – and the rapporteur made reference to it in his report – through the pooling of land and human resources, which would lead to greater efficiency and improved competitiveness. likewise, the opportunity of rural development and new technology in terms of creating farm and part-time employment for both women and men must, in every case, be vigorously pursued.
mr president, i note that the last seven speakers in this debate come from the group of the european people’s party, so we have seven people anxious to talk while everybody else has dried up. it is an indication of the concern of this particular group for the problem we are discussing. i want to thank mr parish for his contribution, the thorough research and the very extensive report he has produced. i was just thinking of my youth when i was a member of the young farmers of ireland; i started my political career in that organisation. i remember a plan was produced which was based on two simple things: intensive advice and a little bit of financial incentive. it was based on the geographic unit of organisation, which was most popular in ireland, it was a church community called the parish. it was the parish plan. so i started off my political life with the parish plan in my hand and today i have another parish plan. it is much more comprehensive and, indeed, i have to confess that i do not see as many simple answers to the questions raised in this one as in my young farmers' organisation in ireland 40 years ago. something that comes to mind is that we ought not to get carried away with emotion or lead people down the wrong path on this whole subject. the 1926 census in ireland found that more than half of the entire population of the country was engaged in agriculture and yet the country did not produce surpluses and there were people short of food. there are still people harking back to the days when, as an irish poet said: "every rood of ground maintained its man". however, we should not imagine that this was an ideal world in which to live. over the years, as the number of farms was reduced and farmers became more efficient, food obviously became more available to the poor who could buy it at a lower cost. the reduced farm numbers have produced a lot of well-being in europe. we should not forget that. since ireland joined the european union – i only mention ireland because i am very familiar with what happened obviously, but you can draw lessons for other areas – our many small farms were reduced gradually in number. if it were not for the common agricultural policy, that would have been very painful. it was a good thing that the number of farms was reduced and that we had the common agricultural policy to ease that. we must be concerned about the human problems that arise out of the squeeze-out of excessive labour, but at the same time, we should remember that the cost of food has been reduced. emphasis, in the future, must be put on quality, while in my time limitless quantities were needed. today we need more quality and we need to consider the environment. all these are things mr parish has underlined. but we should not offer the prospect of young, energetic people in greater numbers producing the quantity of food that europe needs today because they will not eat it.
mr president, i welcome this report. it certainly highlights the bleak future facing young farmers within the european union, despite the support provided by the union and member states. the current unfavourable economic climate for farming in general and young farmers in particular, the obvious lack of prospects for young farmers, the decline in the number of full-time farmers and the consequent ageing of those who remain – these are all general trends which underline the problem. it is clear that we will experience a drastic drop in the number of young farmers over the next couple of decades, unless appropriate and effective measures are put in place now. young farmers face enormous problems such as the massive financial burden when they start up and often this can be compounded by difficulties associated with inheritance. training is often deficient, and for young people it can be an isolated life in rural areas, with limited social activity in comparison with those of a similar age who work in more urban settings. all of this begs the question: what can the european union do? a european policy aimed at supporting young farmers and linked to the cap is essential. up until now there has been little evaluation of eu assistance measures either by the member states or the eu commission. greater attention must be given to interest rate subsidies and loans, installation aids and investment grants must be paid more speedily and the implications of enlargement on young farmers need to be considered and integrated into any future policy approach. other measures that could be considered are supplementary investment aid for farmers under 40, production rights, assistance with credit terms, better education, training and networking opportunities – one could go on. but the point i want to make is that we need to do something now. to take up the point made by mr nicholson: why should young people in the celtic tiger economy in ireland remain on the land? why should they face an anti-social life? why should they be in a career which has economic uncertainty when other occupations offer a much more attractive life, much more security, work from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., with week-ends off and with long holidays? that is the problem we have to address and we must address it now.
commission. - in february 2000, the nuclear installations inspectorate, the uk regulatory body, published a report on aspects relating to the activities of british nuclear fuels limited at the sellafield plant. the uk regulator has recently published an interim review report on the progress made by the bnlf. following the recommendations of february, the commission services are also studying this second interim report. the commission is also aware that since the publication of the review report in november, the uk regulator has been satisfied with the treatment given by british nuclear fuels limited, for example, to the 15 specific recommendations in the report for the demonstration plant, and that these recommendations have been what is known in nuclear terminology as closed, i.e. taken for granted. the commission notes that the uk regulator appreciates the effort and commitment that the bnlf has shown in addressing its concerns and that significant progress has been made (i am quoting verbatim) with regard to its other recommendations in the february report. however, much remains to be done, as by november 2000 only 3 of the 28 recommendations of the inspection team had been formally closed. however, the uk regulator has acknowledged that many of the measures already introduced by the company will still need time to take full effect. in the words of the nuclear installations inspectorate, british nuclear fuels limited has started well, but must continue to maintain the spirit of change while continuing to operate its facilities safely. mrs ahern, ladies and gentlemen, the commission appreciates the progress made and shares the inspectors' wish to see a continued push towards improving the safety culture at all levels of management and obviously, within what is our competence or, rather in this area, our non-competence, we will keep a close eye on what happens at sellafield.
i wish to thank mrs de palacio for studying the situation and for saying that she was keeping a watching brief. however, i cannot agree that compliance with 3 out of 20 recommendations is progress. it certainly is not. in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, the chief inspector of the uk nuclear installations inspectorate said quite clearly that he would shut the reprocessing facility if the recommendations were not complied with in full. clearly they have not been complied with in full. we can argue about progress being swift or slow, but we have to see compliance in full. i hope mrs de palacio that you will state here today that you wish to see compliance in full with the recommendations and swiftly, because that is what i want to hear. i also referred to the adverse affects on other member states, namely the republic of ireland, and would like to draw the commissioner's attention to a report published by the radiological protection institute of ireland in december 2000, which is critical of emissions from sellafield and their adverse effect on the republic of ireland. i would ask you to study that in full also, mrs de palacio.
the commission is planning to adopt at the beginning of next month a white paper on the common transport policy, which will be accompanied by a review of the guidelines on the transeuropean transport network and, where appropriate, other initiatives to promote less polluting and more efficient transport systems. such initiatives are intended to combat the growing saturation, the negative environmental effects, the excessive dependence on oil and the high number of road accidents. the commission is drawing up a set of economic infrastructure regulations to encourage greater use of those means of transport which still have capacity and are more environmentally friendly. the planned objective is to promote new technologies and encourage greater cooperation between transport modes. the revision of the transeuropean networks will therefore be carried out in two phases. the first phase will focus on a few priority issues, with emphasis on the promotion of rail freight. in the second phase, which is expected to start before 2004, the guidelines will be further reviewed, taking account in particular of the enlargement of the union and the environment, and the main multimodal transport routes will be identified. the commission's guidelines for the structural funds programmes for the period 2000-06 recommend that priority be given to intermodal transport. the commission will present a communication showing how these guidelines have been taken into account.
i wanted to ask a supplementary question but i am afraid that i am going to have to return to the two parts of my question which have not been addressed. i asked if the commission was planning to review current priority or non-priority road projects within the trans-european networks framework so as to give preference to more sustainable transport modes. that part of my question has not been answered. secondly, i wanted the commission to indicate the share of investment per mode of transport in the framework of the structural funds programme period 2000 to 2006. you may say that it is not possible, but i think you could at least give a rough estimate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy needs are met by renewable sources. our potential for renewable energy in the european union is limited, both for physical reasons - because apart from solar energy, where we could have a greater margin, the others have clear limitations - and for economic reasons, because it is true that renewable energy must be supported - and i have already said that i have taken concrete and positive initiatives in this regard - but, despite everything, a certain level of competitiveness and balance must be maintained. i think that 12% of basic energy should come from renewable sources, which is a very ambitious target, and i am prepared to make every effort to achieve that target by 2010. that said, the evidence cannot be denied, and the evidence is that, apart from other very serious problems such as waste, nuclear energy does not involve pollution by emissions. finally, i would like to say that the nuclear problem is a very serious problem, but it is under control. at the moment, unfortunately, the problem of climate change is absolutely out of control. it is a problem that is not under control at the moment and, moreover, i am afraid that it is not under control unless we take very important measures. i share your concern. not only the green paper on energy but also the white paper on transport - because transport has a lot to do with this issue - clearly has a direction in the sense of trying to minimise the effects, from the point of view of climate change and from the environmental point of view, while maintaining development, growth and a quality of life.
thank you, commissioner. in your response you relied heavily on the economic argument, but we have to say that both nuclear energy and coal are, in fact, heavily subsidised. as mrs isler béguin said, can we see the same level of subsidies – look at the money spent on research in fusion – in renewable energies? to date we do not have level of funding either from the eu or from the member states. i have two other points. firstly, do you consider waste incineration a renewable energy, because we need clarification on that? secondly, where we get industrial profits as an additional source of funding for renewable energy, will we see a level playing field across the board? i would refer you also to the fact – i have said this in other fora – that director-general lamoureux has made statements on nuclear energy which vastly exceed the brief of the commission. it is for the member states to decide whether they will build or not build nuclear power plants. will the commissioner disassociate herself from those comments?
mr president, on a point of order. i want an answer to my question. you passed over my question 39. i am here to take the question. i must request the answer to that question. furthermore, may i point out that in question 36 there were three questions in one, which took up over 20 minutes. there are three questions in one in question 40, which will take another 20 minutes or so. my question 39 is one simple sentence and all i require is one simple answer. i am entitled to that. i therefore expect you, mr president, to accord me the respect of the house and the answer to my question. i have been here for the last 16 years and i am at least entitled to the respect of the house.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, at the outset i want to acknowledge the assistance which i received from the secretariat of the committee on fisheries and indeed from the secretariat of my own group in preparing this report. i want to thank mr poignant for his cooperation while producing my report. both myself and mr poignant had one major preoccupation – to make sure that our reports were not only complementary, but more importantly that they were not contradictory. after all they deal with the same subject, and i would like to think that the same spirit will prevail in the house when both reports are voted on tomorrow. under the regulation establishing a community system for fisheries and aquaculture, the commission is obliged to report at least every three years to parliament, the council and the community bodies representing the sector on the implementation of measures and developments in the common fisheries policy. this report reviews the years 1996 to 1998. the timing of the present communication gives it a special significance in that it represents a bridge to the green paper to be published on the review of the common fisheries policy. not only is this is an historical snapshot of the past, it is an important indication of the direction of commission thinking about the future and shape of the cfp after 2002. this, of course, is to be welcomed. the report covers all aspects of the cfp, including conservation and management of resources, structural policy, external fisheries policy, market policy and monitoring and control. in the conclusions to its communication the commission lists among its priorities: better coherence between the various objectives pursued by the cfp, such as conservation of resources, the economic efficiency of the fleet and securing employment in fisheries – dependent areas, taking account of the economic dimension of fisheries management, better integration of environmental and fisheries policy, improvement of management tools such as multi-annual management objectives and strategies, management of fishing effort, and full integration of the mediterranean into the community management regime, a more accountable decision-making process and maintaining the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. many of these points can be endorsed by us, indeed as the commission acknowledges, a number of these priorities are those which parliament itself set and has long demanded. i would like to underline to you, as i have done in my report, a number of points that i feel strongly about. i regret the present unsatisfactory state of fish stocks in relation to technical conservation measures. i believe that more progress can still be made. in spite of initiatives taken by the commission to strengthen its dialogue with the industry, i believe that these should be fully reinforced. i believe that fishermen must be more involved in the work of scientists in order to establish mutual confidence. i have strong suspicions that multi-annual programmes have operated in a discriminatory fashion without producing any major benefits to the fishing sector as a whole. i would like to see a uniform inspection regime throughout the community and the harmonisation of penalties for infringements. i want a strict enforcement of the community control system with regard to third country vessels operating within eu waters. i am strongly in favour of a greater regionalisation of the common fisheries policy through the creation of a comprehensive series of regional management units and regional advisory committees based on the use of ices areas and sub-areas to define the boundary lines. in this context, i want to stress that regionalisation of fisheries policy is not in any way the same as renationalisation or fisheries policy. it does, however, to use the commission's own words, involve the participation of stakeholders, and i quote "in all the three phases of the management process i.e. consultation, decision-taking and implementation of decisions taken". i believe that the lack of cohesion in the regional application of the cfp must inevitably lead to a lack of confidence in the policy and in the community institutions. i believe that it is necessary to define the application of the cfp in a clear and consistent manner, setting out a coherent system of regionalisation. i am convinced that this must entail such factors as closer links between fishermen, scientists, the recognition of the socio-economic factors in areas highly dependent on fisheries, flexibility and simplification. as i have done on so many occasions in the past, i repeat my call that in order to ensure an appropriate policy of decentralisation it is essential to maintain access to the territorial waters of 12 miles as the exclusive sovereign preserve of the coastal states and to extend this preserve to 24 miles, as previously agreed by this house in february 1999. on a personal note i would point out that these last two issues are fundamental to my own country, ireland. i believe that the utmost respect must be paid to the need for social, economic, regional cohesion, and that the highest priority must be given to the defence of the populations of regions highly dependent on fisheries. i want to see the commission review the application of relative stability so as to take better account of the need for economic, social and regional cohesion. there is no doubt in my mind that this must be done without calling into question the fundamental principle itself. i would like to take the opportunity to congratulate mr varela suanzes-carpegna on his report. the fact that there are no amendments tabled is a clear indication that we can all agree on this text. i am pleased to say that all the ideas contained in my opinion on behalf of the committee on industry have been included in the report in one form or another. mr varela suanzes-carpegna has outlined to us in detail the importance of the multi-functional role of the eu fisheries. this is something that must be taken into account in future wto negotiations to ensure that eu producers are not put at a disadvantage. the commission must come up with appropriate negotiation proposals. unlike what was done in relation to agriculture, i would invite mr fischler to consult this house on the fisheries proposals. in conclusion, i am pleased that mr varela suanzes-carpegna has recognised the need to take into account social and economic factors, such as employment in coastal areas. this must be taken into consideration in the wto talks and the review of the common fisheries policy, and i welcome the reference to an environmental and health food standard in mr varela suanzes-carpegna's report. i also want to congratulate my colleague mr cunha on his report.
mr president, the common fisheries policy, as many have pointed out, has failed to conserve fish stocks at adequate levels to support a viable industry. this is due, at least in part, to the conflicting nature of some of the objectives of the cfp as laid down in regulation 3760/92. it is impossible to simultaneously satisfy both the market and industry while conserving resources. when the cfp is revised next year it is essential that the conservation of fish stocks and the protection of the marine habitat be made its primary and overriding objective, and the only way to do this is to implement a rigorous and comprehensive precautionary approach to fisheries management. the precautionary approach should mean that before any stock can be fished on a commercial basis there must be, at the very least, a scientific assessment of the stock and a conservatively-based total allowable catch. in other words, the current pillage of certain types, certain deep-water stocks by some eu countries would not be allowed to happen. it means that any new fishing gear or any significant modification of existing gear must be evaluated for its potential impact on the target stock as well as any species caught as by-catch or any impact on the marine habitat. it means being conservative when one decides the level at which one wants to maintain a fish stock. the use of maximum sustainable yield or any of a number of other reference points is quite simply wrong, for they lead to over-fishing and stock collapse. targets and limited reference points must be established which will maintain the fish stock at a high enough level that the risk of stock depletion or collapse is insignificant. the best definition to date of the precautionary approach is the one contained in the un fish stocks agreement, and many of these and other principles are defined there. the eu has accepted these ideas for some stocks and i think it is high time that it implemented them for its own stocks. a number of things have been said already about morocco and i just want to say that we would insist that it is entirely up to morocco, as a coastal state with sovereignty over its fish and its exclusive economic zone, to decide what it wishes to do with these resources. we are therefore opposed to any kind of political or economic pressure being brought to bear on morocco in order to encourage it or to coerce it to sign an agreement with the european union. secondly, we are adamant that no potential agreement with morocco should involve any access to waters of western sahara. we do not recognise moroccan sovereignty there and so morocco has no right whatsoever to discuss access to eu vessels there, nor for that matter has the eu any right to enter into such negotiations with morocco or to allow eu flag vessels to go there as has happened in the past.
mr president, the evidence coming from bosnia in particular points clearly to a massive increase in cases of cancer where bombings took place during the balkans war and where ammunition rounds of depleted uranium were used. it is now believed that the depleted uranium rounds were used by the bombers which carried out attacks on the suburbs of sarajevo and elsewhere during the balkans war. the people of the balkans are entitled to full and unequivocal answers with regard to the carcenogenic effects of the depleted uranium shells which were used during the war. this parliament and the european union should, and must, be most vigorous in pursuing full answers to these most important public health and human rights issues. on a separate but related matter, i was quite disturbed to read that depleted uranium shells have been fired into the irish sea by british ministry of defence forces at the solway firth between england and scotland and also at a range on the cumbrian coast, just seven miles from a british nuclear plant. this depleted uranium has been used in cumbria up to 1995, and it is believed that as many as 1400 depleted uranium shells have been fired into the solway firth, which is an inlet of the irish sea. as a member of the european parliament, representing leinster, which is along the irish sea, i am deeply concerned at these revelations. i am calling on the british government to make a full statement on the matter. i want to know whether there are any possible public health consequences from the use of depleted uranium shells in the location to which i have referred to today. it is up to the british government to make a statement on these matters.
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals, and i am sure that the council will take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. so, once again, i am committed to reporting on all that i can report. what you cannot ask me to report is what i am not able to report or what i do not know. we are talking about an issue which, by its very nature, is the responsibility of governments and therefore we have to be aware of the information that each and every government provides us with. as i said in my first speech, i am in contact with the governments and the organisations working on this matter and i can assure them once again that we, the council and myself will be given all the information we have and all the transparency. i can hardly share information with you which we do not have in our possession. secondly, i would like to say that, as some of you have pointed out, in scientific analyses we have to keep all the variables open, we are not going to concentrate on a few given parameters and forget others which may have some equally harmful repercussions on health. i am therefore glad to hear from the commission and from some of the members who have spoken that we are open to considering all the environmental consequences. i can tell you that i am also a scientist by training and, in addition, a physicist. i will not bring up my already meagre knowledge of what i knew at the time. but i think it is important that we take a rational approach to this problem and that we wait until we have all the information we can get to draw all the conclusions. at this moment no one should doubt that all countries and all international organizations are making every effort to find a solution to this problem, gathering the most relevant information as quickly as possible. a lot of things have been said, all very interesting. i have noted them all, but i do not want to answer them one by one because few questions have been asked. but i do want to answer some of the things that have been said to avoid misunderstandings. i would like to tell the representatives of the green group/european free alliance in all sincerity and with all affection that they sent me a letter, that i received it, and that, as they themselves know, because i spoke to them, i made it known and available to all the heads of government and ministers of the union. the letter received an oral reply, no written reply, but you know that the decision taken by the governments was to continue along the line which they had already started from the month of may when i received that letter. therefore, do not understand that there was no respect for the letter that i received. there was respect for the charter, but there was a decision on the part of the governments to act differently from what was proposed in the charter. but please understand that there has always been respect for the letter of any of the members of the political groups belonging to parliament. i would like to make two remarks of a rather personal nature. first of all, i'm very good at distinguishing between ends and means. i would not like to be accused of confusing ends and means. i am perfectly aware of the difference between ends and means, and i know very well that the important thing is the end and that the attainment of the end depends very much on the means used. the media and knowledge of them change over time. there are times when you have information that determines whether a medium can be useful or not and we have to take into account, when we make these reflections, the information that is available at the precise moment when some decisions are made. so let it be clear that i am not confusing ends and means. i've never done it before and i'd like to not. i would like to say something to those who accuse me of asking this parliament to be complicit. no, i am not asking for any complicity from this parliament, not today and not ever. you are the representatives of the will of the people of the european union and you are responsible for your actions. what i have and i think i should share with you are the moments we have had together, years ago or months ago. that is not using or making parliament complicit. i repeat a thousand times that i take all my responsibilities, i have always taken them in my life and i intend to continue to take them and i do not need to make anyone an accomplice. what i need to ask is that you take responsibility. i take mine and you must take yours. and we cannot deny that the resolutions passed in this parliament have given me cause for reflection. and when i chaired the council of ministers of the european union, its resolutions were important to me and important to the heads of state and government of the european union. that's not making anyone an accomplice. it is a shared responsibility, as responsible europeans we are all here. we must be able to share and to be collectively responsible. and that's all it was. i would like to thank them and tell them that i will be back on the 31st for a debate on the middle east, but i am also at their disposal during the plenary session to continue to deal with this subject of such interest because we are playing a very big game here. we are risking our credibility and we are also risking further steps in crisis management in the european union. in that sense, ladies and gentlemen, you can always be sure that you can count on me, at least on my good will; my knowledge is already more doubtful. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. – mr president, i also want to start by saying thank you to all the members of the european parliament for their statements, because they have underlined the need to take seriously the fears and anxieties in respect of all those who suffer from symptoms and illnesses as well as the need to gather all available information and to examine also the long-term health effects. the commission, i assure you, will do all in its power and competence to establish a sound scientific basis in relation to this issue and we will also, of course, cooperate fully with other national and international bodies working in this field: nato, unep, iaea and the world health organisation. the commission's efforts will be integrated into our wider programme of support in the balkans with respect to health and the environment, because we must look at the accumulated effects. we also welcome the opportunity to report back to the european parliament on the progress of our efforts to establish a solid scientific basis on the effects of depleted uranium. we would like to come back to report to you and of course we are always willing to answer any questions that you might have.
mr president, on a point of order. i have just been looking at the text of the joint motion for a resolution. i should like to point out that the name indicated as signing for the liberal group, the lord bethell, is most welcome to join our group. i should like to place on the record how pleased we are to have a new member today who signs on our behalf.
in writing. - i am pleased to join my colleagues on the committee on development in giving my full support to the commission's proposal for a new cooperation agreement with bangladesh. this new agreement is yet another sign of our determination to strengthen our relations with bangladesh. i hope that it will encourage the government of bangladesh to intensify its efforts to develop the potential of saarc and make it an additional vehicle for stimulating the economy and creating jobs in the region. the van den bos report and the miranda resolution clearly set out the main features of the bangladeshi economy and the many challenges facing the government, the institutions, the politicians and the people. bangladesh is one of the poorest developing countries. nearly half the population - 127 million people - live below the poverty line. the country has always been and remains constantly threatened by floods and cyclones. despite this, some improvement in living standards has been seen over the past 25 years. in the 1990s, thanks to economic reforms, significant progress was made, with gdp increasing by an average of 4.8% over the period 1994-99. bangladesh is heavily dependent on foreign aid. the eu is a major supplier - 17% of all funds. the eu is the country's main trading partner. in 1998, we absorbed 45% of its exports. bangladesh has a trade surplus with the eu. since 1976, the eu has invested almost €1 billion in various projects: €660 million in food and humanitarian aid, and €185 million in the fight against poverty and agriculture. i fully support the objectives of eu-funded programmes, which are to help raise income levels and enhance food security for the poor; contribute to facilitating access to quality health services for very poor women and children; contribute to their schooling. this is of fundamental importance for the future of bangladesh. i particularly welcome the accession of bangladesh to the ilo programme for the abolition of child labour in 1984 and the 'considerable progress' made since then. i welcome these efforts and hope that further progress will be made in this area. i also support 100% the main objective of the agreement, which is to help sustainable economic development, particularly for the poorest, women and children. the resolution of the committee on development underlines the importance of the next parliamentary elections, which will take place in november this year. the european union should accept invitations from the government and the opposition to send election observers, as it did for the 1996 and 1991 elections. i hope that some members of the european parliament will be part of the team.
in writing. - i believe that the report of our committee on agriculture and rural development is balanced and should be welcomed. as a representative of a rural constituency, i am very much aware of the concerns expressed by farmers about the very future of the sector they represent in ireland. incredible as it may seem, it is true that in ireland, where agriculture has long been one of the country's economic mainstays, farmers are now beginning to wonder whether their sons or daughters will be able to carry on the family tradition. mr parish's report is timely, and the study on 'the future of young farmers in the european union' by independent consultants, which was commissioned at his express request at the beginning of last year, provides us with a detailed and useful overview of the whole issue. young farmers have a vital role to play in the future of their sector. they play a very important social role in the life of villages and rural communities, support a wide range of economic activities and participate in local associations. by maintaining the landscape of our countryside, farmers also help make it strong and prosperous. in ireland, the national development plan 2000-2006 includes a range of measures to help young farmers to start their careers. these include a new and improved system of aid for setting up, to encourage them to take over farms and to help them as they take their first steps in the business. some £30 million has been allocated for this programme, which i hope will be approved by the commission very soon. in addition, a wide range of tax incentives have been introduced to reduce the overall cost of property transfers. some of these incentives include exemption from livestock tax, a reduction in stamp duty, property tax and a reduction in inheritance tax. in conjunction with the early retirement scheme, these measures clearly constitute potential support for young farmers embarking on a career. the benefits to farmers will be considerable and these measures should facilitate an earlier and more efficient transfer of land to young farmers. many young farmers who take up farming must invest in buildings and equipment to optimise production efficiency and ensure the economic viability of their business. in this respect, £230 million has been earmarked in the national development plan for investment at farm level. the investment schemes will cover farm waste management, improvement of milk hygiene standards, housing and handling infrastructure for alternative businesses. these programmes will be open to an increasing number of part-time and full-time farmers, including young graduates, and will help to ensure the viability of many farms. they will focus in particular on young farmers. we should also note that the nature of these programmes demonstrates a clear commitment to environmental protection, which will be central to the future development of irish and european agriculture. in conclusion, it is imperative that we at european level get to work to ensure a future for agriculture. the common agricultural policy has been a european success, and we want it to remain so. the future belongs to our young farmers and to sustainable and environmentally friendly farming practices. we must give our full support to these objectives.
mr president, i wish to begin by saying, on behalf of my group, that we are very strongly in favour of continuing a form of common fisheries policy within the european union, because we understand that the management of resources is the best way forward for securing guarantees for the continuation of social and economic development in a lot of coastal regions of the european union, which would have no other benefit and could not get employment or other developments except from their own natural resources, for example fishing and aquaculture. however, that said and giving credit where credit is due, we must also recognise that there are a lot of deficiencies within the common fisheries policy. in particular, the total objection to having a regionalised policy within the common fisheries policy is incorrect. this house has rejected that proposal again today. regionalisation does not mean renationalisation or moving away from a community model; it means giving communities which are bordering each other and are fishing similar species the opportunity to come together to manage those species. on top of that, we must also put greater emphasis on a uniform inspection system across all european union waters and give more powers to the community inspectors to ensure that all regulations are being properly enforced. finally, i must say that there is a need for conservation. we have seen a huge depletion in the fishing stocks within the european union waters. the way to resolve conservation questions is not by moving to different fish stocks and bringing them into a quota system, but by ensuring that we have certain no-go areas where we can allow fishing stocks to re-mature. this example has already been proven in certain areas by voluntary agreements in irish waters and by maintenance of these non-fishing areas – so-called set-aside areas, to give the analogy with the common agricultural policy – for a certain period of time. that is the one way of guaranteeing that we can keep a food source going, provide employment and protect environmental considerations within our fishing waters. that is why we supported the gallagher report.
mr president, i supported the joint resolution on depleted uranium and i welcome the fact that parliament decided to retain the reference and the call for a moratorium on these weapons. i would have preferred a stronger resolution but i know how difficult it is to achieve that. what i do want to say, however, is that i deplore the attitude displayed by mr solana here this morning. at the same time as declaring he was in favour of transparency and openness in relation to this issue, he admitted that he only began to take action on it when it became a public issue about a week ago, despite his role as secretary-general of nato during the balkans war. he also failed to mention or to give a view on the question whether there ought to be a moratorium on these weapons. i deplore also his attempt to make this parliament complicit in the decision by nato to use these weapons. the use of these weapons was disproportionate to the challenge that was being faced by nato, particularly in the war against serbia, and was therefore unnecessary and was a callous disregard of the effects on the population at large. it was a callous disregard of the effect it would have on the nato troops, and indeed it was a callous disregard of the after-effects on aid workers and peacekeeping forces, both military and police, in the aftermath of that war. i would urge, as others have urged, that the new rapid reaction force should not have available to it these types of weapons. indeed i will be calling on my own government in ireland to refuse to participate in this rapid reaction force unless there is a clear commitment that these weapons will not be used.
madam president, firstly, i wish the swedish presidency every success in the knowledge that their success will certainly be europe's success as well. i want to welcome the swedish presidency's presentation here this afternoon as one that appears to be extremely constructive and pragmatic. i also welcome the comments made by the commission president, mr prodi. the swedish government has made it clear that it intends to prioritise what is known as the 3 es during its presidency of the union, and this relates to addressing the key problems of enlargement of the union, employment matters and promoting environmental issues. i would certainly welcome the intensification of the enlargement negotiations between the applicant countries and the european union. we should recall that the accession negotiations are broken up into nearly 40 different chapters of talks, covering every ambit of social and economic activity that is carried out by the european union. presently, many of the more difficult chapters of discussions still remain unopened, and these include agricultural issues, the free movement of persons, the implementation of eu social and employment legislation and the incorporation of many eu directives and regulations in the field of environmental matters. this is the core of the problem when it comes to the issue of enlargement of the european union. applicant countries want the eu leaders to give a fixed date for the next enlargement of the union. however, the eu governments are seeking the conclusion of the more difficult chapters of talks between the applicant countries and the european union before such a date can be announced. however, the fact that eu leaders were able to agree a reform of the decision-making procedures within the eu institutions at nice before christmas is certainly a step in the right direction. applicant countries can now take solace from the fact that the eu has reformed its internal decision-making procedures so that the mechanics of the enlargement process can take place in a streamlined and structured manner. i welcome the fact that the swedish government is going to ensure that employment and environmental matters stay at the top of the agenda during its presidency of the union. it is imperative that the european union guarantees that the benefits of new information technologies are incorporated across all sectors of european industry. equally, it is important that there is an intensification of support for employment initiatives in urban and rural blackspots. finally, i hope that the european union and the united states of america can come to an agreement in bonn in may of this year so as to guarantee that environmental targets to reduce the effects of global warming can be reached. (applause)
i should like to thank the president-in-office for his answer and also to wish him well for the swedish presidency. however, as a follow-up to what he has already stated, does the presidency feel that the operation of the compensation commission on iraq, which is based in geneva, should continue? as you know, this commission also deals with the question of reparations in the aftermath of the gulf war. we have already seen the negative effects in publicity terms of the sanctions and how they are being used by saddam hussein to beat western europe, as well as the americans and the un, and to rally his people back. the statement last night was that this was a victory of good over evil and that saddam hussein was good and the rest of the world was evil. we are playing into his hands by ensuring that people are denied access to medicines, food and the other necessities of life.
thank you for your response and also for giving us a few more moments. i am delighted that you have been so realistic as to describe the cuts as drastic, because that is all they can be described as. however, i also realise that it is necessary to have cuts in order to ensure that we have sufficient resources for this generation and, indeed, future generations. i refer to your comments on recovery plans. i would ask you to assure us that you will make every effort to ensure that when the recovery plans are being discussed it is not only the scientists but also the stakeholders and the fishermen who will be involved in these discussions. all the fishermen i know are realists and they realise that it is necessary to have closed areas to protect the breeding grounds. in short, can you give us an assurance that you will make an effort to have the fishermen involved in any recovery plans?
i should just like to ask the president-in-office if there will be compensation available because of the cuts and what effect this will have on the livelihoods of fishermen? are there any proposals for compensation to fishermen?
mr president, i welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on sustainable forest industries which are indeed of primary importance to the european union. however, the commission's communication is rather a hodgepodge which lumps together willy-nilly the publishing industry which is knowledge-based and content-focused with primary forestry industries and also paper production. the publishing industry is both unhappy and bemused, to say the least, and this is not how we promote the european union nor how things work in the member states. the publishing industry feels that there is a lack of recognition of its particular requirements with regard to the expanding it sector. the commission could be open to the accusation, indeed, that perhaps it prefers an it sector devoid of content. i would recommend, commissioner, that you look seriously at this question and review this whole division of labour. may i also take issue with the report's paragraph 2: peat is not a wood substitute, it is a fuel/fertiliser in its own right. i know there are particular irish and finnish interests here, but i do not believe that we can accept peat as a forest-based industry. it is a completely separate fuel sector which has also fertiliser as a component. climate change: the rapporteur makes some interesting comments here. i agree with him that we should urgently implement the kyoto agreement. that is what we all want to do. forests are, of course, important storages of c02 but the potential for expansion of forests in the eu is limited, even if welcome. however, i fail to understand the reference to the oceans. we have had oceans since time immemorial, and this has nothing to do with our present problems with climate change, so i agree with my other colleagues and cannot see what possible relevance that paragraph has. finally, with regard to the paper industry: it should clean up its bad former record on the pollution of the environment, and it is also important to inquire into the difficulties of monopolies in the paper sector, particularly with regard to cartels in the recycling sector.
mr president, i should like to refer briefly to the importance of forestry from a rural development as well as a family-farm perspective. european agriculture will always remain critical to the well-being of european rural economies – indeed, it represents the main option for economic activity. nevertheless, production controls ensure that many farmers cannot increase their income from farming and, therefore, alternative income-generating opportunities from off-farm activities are vital if rural populations are to benefit from economic growth. we have seen the success of rural development programmes, including the leader scheme and other such activities which have helped create much needed employment in small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas throughout europe. however, the option to engage in forestry activity can also be a very constructive and environmentally friendly mechanism for farmers to increase their existing income. in the irish government's national development plan for 2000-2006, a total of iep 580m is being provided for forestry activities. this would be cofunded under the common agricultural rural development programme. this latter investment will support a planting programme in ireland of over 20 000 ha per year over the period of the plan. the focus will be for on-farm forestry, with grants, planting and maintenance, as well as income-support premium. in addition to cap support and measures, an allocation of iep 80m has been provided in the regional operational programme for investment in harvesting equipment, forest roads and general woodland improvements. with regard to the eu operational programme for forestry and the generous funding available for afforestation, it is imperative that the end product of this investment is a quality, sustainable forest product, one capable of yielding over time a return both for the individual farmer and the community. because of the relative resilience of trees to survive, the necessary silvacultural practices could be neglected in the early years of establishment of new forests. this must be avoided if the european sector is to meet the challenge of quality and competitiveness in the future. on a broader perspective, parliament should be aware of the serious threat to the world's tropical forests, which are diminishing by 15 million hectares annually. not sufficient research is being done on the growing of tropical hardwoods. in this regard, we should be aware of the work of the european forest institute and its encouragement and research into the planting of new tropical forests. if we are to address the need for sustainability, we must tackle these problems very early on.
madam president, in the context of these issues, a teething problem has arisen with the four-day week in relation to transport. it is impossible until next december to get on the strasbourg-brussels flight at 4.30 p.m. on a thursday. that has resulted in many of our staff and press officers having to leave on the 12.30 p.m. flight on thursday. that is not acceptable. could you please talk to the powers-that-be and put extra flights back to brussels on thursday evening to accommodate our staff, so that they can stay here all thursday.
madam president, i wish to speak on this report because it is necessary for the european union to find a more effective way to ensure that member states who make commitments in relation to matters of life and death actually comply with those commitments. the report points out that during the 1990s the number of road deaths fell in the european union by 26%. in ireland, however, the fall has only been by 13%. we have the third highest accident rate in the european union and we have the highest fatality rate in the european union. the national safety council just last august indicated that as far as they were concerned they did not see any political commitment to actually dealing effectively with road safety. it estimated that of the 62 000 young people who sat the leaving certificate examination in june 2000 within eight years 1000 would be dead in unnecessary car accidents. this seems to me to be a grotesque situation and quite simply should not be tolerated by the european union. if member states make commitments to implement the matters which affect life and death than we have to find ways of ensuring that they comply with those commitments.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mrs hedkvist petersen on her very thorough report on a subject which concerns us all very much. the statistics are quite alarming: 42,000 people die on eu roads every year and some 1.7 million are injured to varying degrees. it is clear that this issue requires the concerted efforts of all the parties concerned: the eu, national and local authorities, and the many voluntary organisations and initiatives that aim to tackle the problem of road accidents. the number of fatal accidents varies greatly from one member state to another: from 60 to 243 per million inhabitants; the eu average is 116. in my country, ireland, 129 people per million are killed on the roads every year. i find it particularly worrying that road accidents are the leading cause of death among children and people under 45 in the eu. this is an intolerable situation. the figures clearly show that the number of fatal accidents can be significantly reduced across the eu. it is crucial that our commitment to saving lives on the roads - especially those of young people - goes beyond the declaration of intent. adequate resources should be committed to proactive policies at union level to help member states improve their road safety performance. the commission's current budget for road safety is €8 million per year. i believe that the commission must send a strong signal of its determination to reduce the number of road deaths. i also call on him to increase the budget for road safety significantly and to encourage the member states to do the same. the money spent on reducing the number of road accidents is money well spent. the inadequacy of road safety is costing society and the member states a great deal. while the human tragedy cannot be measured, attempts have been made to quantify the economic cost of road traffic accidents - from medical and emergency services to property damage and lost income - to the staggering sum of some 100 billion euros a year. things are certainly moving in the right direction. during the 1990s, the number of deaths on eu roads fell by 26%. this trend must be maintained and strengthened. parliament has repeatedly stated that one of the major political objectives of transport policy is to give priority to measures to improve the safety of all modes of transport and to provide the necessary financial resources for this purpose. the number of deaths and injuries on europe's roads is not a predetermined factor. we must give priority to improving road safety and allocate adequate financial resources.
in writing. - i voted for the karamanou report. the reports and contributions to this debate have reminded us that some of our worst fears are justified. discrimination still exists and women still have to sweat blood and water to fight their way through the tight web of hidden prejudices and gain a place in political, commercial and other organizations. positive action measures remain necessary - until there is real equality, not only for those with great talent but also for all those who are less energetic. women suffer from universal underrepresentation in decision-making.
mr president, i very much welcome the establishment of courts to try the suspects of the former communist khmer rouge regime. it is important so that cambodia can move forward into the future that those responsible for heinous crimes against the cambodian population be brought to justice. the khmer rouge regime was one of the worst human rights abusers of the twentieth century, being responsible for an estimated 1.72 million deaths in a short, four-year rule. although i welcome the establishment of the courts i have a number of reservations. we have to remember that the members of the ruling cambodian people's party, including the prime minister, hun sen, were once activists of the khmer rouge, serving under the dictator pol pot. hun sen has already decided who can and cannot be taken before a tribunal, thus challenging the powers of any court. there have been genuine fears that several senior members of the regime might escape justice, in particular the former khmer rouge foreign secretary, ieng sary. he was given partial amnesty after he defected with about 10,000 supporters in 1996. ieng sary and other khmer rouge leaders were sentenced to death in absentia in 1997 by the people's court, which was organised by the vietnamese army occupying cambodia at the time. the amnesty granted by king sihanouk refers only to this conviction and makes no reference to future convictions and therefore it is important that he is tried. no khmer rouge leaders has ever been tried and only two are in detention, one being the person who ran a notorious torture centre in phnom penh from which only seven out of more than fourteen thousand inmates emerged alive. the tribunal has an unusual framework for participation of both international and cambodian judges and prosecutors. normally, in other war crime courts, there are only foreign judges and prosecutors. this becomes ever more worrying when we see that while the un-nominated judges will be screened by the cambodian supreme council of the magistrate, a body controlled by the ruling party of phnom penh, the un has no power whatsoever to screen the judges appointed by cambodia. finally, we also need to look at the involvement of china in all of this. although it has always maintained that it only provided the khmer rouge with technical expertise in agriculture, the cambodian documentation centre recently unearthed evidence to show that it was directly involved in the setting up of the interrogation and torture centre in phnom penh where thousands of cambodians died.
mr president, i would just like to endorse everything that mr howitt has said. plan colombia is promoted as a means of combating of drug production and trafficking, but since drug eradication and crop spraying started six years ago, the actual coca plantations have almost trebled, which shows that this is not an effective method. it does not work and it is also an ecological disaster. since the drug wars started in the 80s, violence has increased in a terrible way in colombia. seventy-five to eighty per cent of the killings are committed by the paramilitary forces to protect big farmers and oil companies. the colombian government pretends that it is trying to combat paramilitarianism but in fact it is turning a blind an eye to it. it knows very well that there are clear links between the paramilitaries and the armed forces. if military equipment is increased in accordance with what plan colombia is proposing, it will clearly reach the paramilitaries. it will increase the massacres; it will increase the disappearances; it will increase the violations committed against ordinary innocent people. any plan which includes a military element is not a solution for colombia. it just exacerbates the situation. many member states have a major problem with the military component and it is very cynical to say that we want to help the social area when clearly this plan is a military plan.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs mann for her work, but she has managed to make a totally technical report out of what is a rather political issue. in fact, the question of trade and trade relations between the eu and the industrialised countries, particularly the us, is a very hot topic. so it is a pity that she missed the opportunity to address it in a more political way. however, the proposal to establish a single budget line could simplify the work of the european parliament as a whole and increase transparency. i do not therefore have a problem with her technical proposals nor indeed the commission’s proposals. it is a pity, however, that we failed to discuss whether we needed more export promotion and, if so, what for, and to go into this whole question in more detail. instead she used the opportunity to expound a rather theoretical framework on trade which is her own rather than anyone else’s. she also failed to deal with issues such as coherency with development issues and the very strong trade complex that we had. but once again simplifying the work of parliament and the commission is to be welcomed and therefore we will not be opposing this report.
mr president, i would like to join with my colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for his ongoing and diligent work on this issue which may not grab the headlines, but is of extreme importance to each and every one of the people that we represent here in this parliament. in particular, the areas that we are talking about in this present raft of recognition of qualifications, are areas where we have experienced huge shortages within the eu in the recent past. also there have been cases highlighted where barriers were put in place and people who wanted to move from one member state to the other could not have the qualifications recognised. one of the important issues raised within the discussions at conciliation and also within the report itself is in clearing up some of the wording used. in particular there is the question of replacing the word “similar” with the word “equivalent”. i am presently dealing with a case in ireland where someone who has trained as a physiotherapist in one member state cannot get their qualification recognised in ireland because of the formal academic aspect even though in every other country in the european union work experience is recognised as the equivalent of the academic qualifications. on top of that, there is also a necessity for us to make sure, once the legislation is passed at a european level, that the member states strictly enforce the legislation and open up the opportunities that are available. too often we have seen hidden barriers put in place to prevent people from one profession or another moving to a country to operate. if we are truly to bring about the idea of the single market, and if we are truly to live up to the principles of the freedom of movement of persons, than we must dismantle these barriers, which we can see are not so much at a european union institution level but are actually at member state level and indeed in some member states at the level of certain individual professions. we need rigorous enforcement of all legislation so any complaints can be dealt with quickly. i would commend this report to the house and ask it to support it.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work that he has done on a very difficult and complex issue. he has brought some logic and sense to it but while giving praise, i have some criticisms and some points that i cannot agree with. on any of these issues we must be very careful that we do not come out in a rush of christian frenzy, thinking that we are going to solve all of the problems of all of the crime in the european union simply by setting up another institution or another office with more staff, and coordinating and harmonising more power into a central authority. there are already examples of where cooperation and coordination work. we have europol, and other institutions like this, where different agencies in different member states working together can achieve results. we also have the opportunity to assess other member states and take the best practices from them and use those as a common minimum standard for all member states. however, we still have differences of law within the member states. we still have different legal systems, for instance. in ireland and britain we still work under the old common law system whereas on the mainland of europe you have the civil law system. it is very difficult, perhaps impossible, to marry these two together, so we must always work on the basis of three tenets of how things should operate. number one: effectiveness, number two: speed, and number three: justice; and we must not forget the word ‘justice’. people should have the right to defend themselves when they are accused or allegations made against them. perhaps it is only a problem of interpretation, but some of the suggestions for the fast-track approach seem to be saying we have to cut through some of the present legal impediments for instance with regard to the right of appeal. i am particularly happy that ireland gets honourable mention because of the criminal assets bureau. i would encourage each and every member of this house and every member state to look at how the criminal assets bureau operates in ireland and how successful it has been since its establishment. one proposal which i oppose – and we have asked for a separate vote – is on the question of a european public prosecutor’s office. i am totally opposed to a european public prosecutor’s office with its powers extending over the territory of all the member states. finally, sanctioning member states is a very dangerous area. we already have experience of how it can go wrong and how difficult it is to reverse. it is better to rely on cooperation; the carrot works a lot better than the stick.
mr president, it is with some regret that i find myself participating again in a parliament debate on bse i regret that the initial steps taken by commissioners byrne and fischler have not achieved their objective of controlling bse and restoring consumer confidence in beef. it is to say the least disappointing, that some member states were prepared to conceal the real incidence of bse in their national herds and equally unwilling to implement the control measures proposed by the commission and agreed by this parliament. their action or lack of action has led to an understandable but justified consumer resistance with beef consumption at one point dropping by 27%. our now costly emergency plan to restore consumption and consumer confidence calls for 100% participation by each member state. there is no place for dissidence at this critical time and those found in breach of the regulations should, in my view, be severely censured. there were occasions in the past when farmers were found to be in breach of food regulations and deservedly condemned. on this occasion, however, they are by and large innocent victims of a situation beyond their control. they are the victims of animal-feed manufacturers who use meat and bone meal in bovine feed and there is some evidence, regrettably, to suggest that unscrupulous manufacturers have continued to use the product since the new regulations were introduced. in my view we are now prepared to resort to extreme measures and i accept commissioner byrne’s view that in the present situation they are the minimum necessary. be that as it may, the harsh reality is that farmers who are guarantors of food supply and quality are devastated, their incomes eliminated and the ethos of farming desecrated through the destruction of a prime food product.
madam president, i may be mistaken but i understood that the intention was indeed to have a resolution. but first we should refer the work programme to the relevant parliamentary committees to assess it, and should then bring forward a considered resolution with the committees responsible for the various areas adding their views. that is my understanding: there will be a resolution, but not immediately.
madam president, i want to put a question on the issue of our order of business, so i am not expressing a view for or against. this is the question – both parliamentary and political – but for a different reason, to the president of the socialist group. if the commission is setting a precedent and, more to the point, if the council sets a precedent this week, should we not be told, at the earliest date and when the house is as full as possible, of the precedent and the response of the house. is it really ideal, if we are setting precedents, that the european parliament should contemplate a debate at 5.30 p.m. on a thursday, which if it is anything like the 5.30 p.m. debate i attended on the thursday of the january part-session, is not to be recommended as a time for setting precedents. so, madam president, can we invite the commission and indeed the council to express themselves in this house earlier in the week, so that we can treat this properly? my fear is that thursday evening is not the optimum time to try to do it.
madam president, first of all i fully support the debate on euthanasia in this parliament. but i would like to take the opportunity to inform you of the very deep concern among many of my constituents in ireland, that a european commissioner, in partnership with a swedish minister, spoke on behalf of the european union in condemning the new american administration's actions in ending funding to family planning organisations that provide abortion in less developed countries. on a point of subsidiarity, we do not have legalised abortion in ireland and we do not support the use of tax-payers' money in providing abortions; but neither does the european union. in fact, within this institution we have voted that abortion should never be used as a means of family planning and that it never should be funded for that purpose. the cairo conference and the beijing women's conference both stated the same thing. i would like to ask why a commissioner would presume to speak in this manner in direct conflict with agreements that have already been signed and why she should presume to overstep subsidiarity in speaking on behalf of my country.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this comprehensive report. as a member of the european parliament representing the east coast of ireland, i am particularly angered by the extent of shipments of nuclear waste within the irish sea. only recently, there were two shipments from the netherlands to the sellafield and thorp nuclear reprocessing plants operated by british nuclear fuels in cumbria, and i have been informed that another 17 such shipments are due to take place from the netherlands in the coming years. moreover, the german government has stated that it is ready to restart shipments of spent nuclear fuel to cumbria and that it will continue such operations until 1 july 2005. this will mean an intensification of such shipments. even though there has been widespread falsification of documents by bnfl over the last two years involving nuclear shipments to japan, such shipments are now due to recommence. this is not withstanding the fact that bnfl has been fined usd 60 million over this incident alone. i am especially pleased that there is now growing international opposition to shipments of nuclear waste from britain to japan. the argentinian navy is presently on alert to intercept a british ship carrying enough nuclear waste to give off twice the amount of radiation as the chernobyl disaster. the british nuclear fuel's vessel named pacific swan is rapidly becoming the pariah of south america because the captain intends to negotiate the treacherous waters of cape horn with 90 tonnes of waste vitrified in 192 glass blocks. i believe that the countries of the ospar convention must now form broader international links with other countries along the main shipping routes of nuclear waste, which includes countries around the panama canal, south america, and the coast of africa. within the european union an environmental impact assessment must be carried out on the construction of new roads, water and sewage facilities and large infrastructure projects. to date, the british government has refused to conduct an international environmental impact assessment on the significant risks posed to the environment and people's health along the transportation routes of nuclear waste. i am now calling on the british government to bring forward a full and comprehensive environmental impact assessment outlining the environmental risks of transporting of nuclear materials within the irish sea. such an assessment should also be evaluated by the european commission. in conclusion, i would like to see the reprocessing of nuclear products terminated at sellafield. however, in the interim, there needs to be an international agreement outlining the safety standards for such shipments. i must commend the rapporteur, mr bakopoulos, on this report.
mr president, i should like to thank mr nicholson for his report, and for the speed with which he researched and did the work. i appreciate his very open and honest attitude to this. he has not gone back and told fishermen around the irish sea that the european commission is trying to persecute them or to do them an injustice. he has put the problem to the public at home the way he has put it here. a problem exists. our colleague over in the far corner of the house spoke earlier and quoted the bible. the bible, someone said, tells us that there will always be fish in the sea. well, i want to quote a more up-to-date document about the codfish. i am quoting the author mark kurlansky in his book 'cod: a biography of the fish that changed the world'. according to kurlansky, the encyclopaedia of commerce and navigation printed in new york in 1858 said that the codfish was a species so well-known that there was no need to explain anything about it, that it was extraordinarily prolific and that someone had counted the eggs of a middling-sized codfish and found that there were 9 835 000 eggs. the encyclopaedia came to the conclusion that mankind could never exterminate this species. we have proven both the bible and this nineteenth-century encyclopaedia wrong. mr stevenson is too young to remember the cod wars which were fought around the coast of iceland in my lifetime – in fact, at a time when i was already in politics. the british – with due respect to all states in the union – sent warships to icelandic waters to ensure that their fishermen were protected when going there to fish the stocks in icelandic waters. it is good that opinion in britain is changing in favour of the right of coastal fishermen, which i always accepted, to exploit their own resources. with all due respect to mr stevenson, who is a good representative of his people and very enthusiastic, i do not accept that the common fisheries policy is a failure. i do not accept that british fishermen have been wronged, because if you look at the figures the british fishing industry is getting its natural share of european fish. the only country that has been 'wronged' are the irish fishermen who have been denied their natural share and who were never allowed to exploit the seas. in the sixteenth century the british went to war with the hanseatic league over icelandic cod and they only withdrew from that war after some casualties because they discovered a new source of cod off the coast of america. this is an old story. but do not go back and tell the fishermen of europe that it is the european commission which is to be blamed. it is trying to solve a difficult problem.
madam president, mr president of the commission, ‘empty chair’ of the council, colleagues, i should like to begin by congratulating mr prodi and his colleagues in the commission on the considerable progress that has been made in the past year, in particular the work that has been done on reform, which is not one of the high political priorities of the union but is, nonetheless, one of the inescapable institutional requirements. on behalf of my group i salute the progress which has been made there. we note with particular concern the commission's report of last week – the pre-stockholm report – about the lisbon process. although we have set the very high aspiration that within a decade we should become the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, we are moving towards it at a lesser pace than ought to be the case. i do not exclude parliament from this, i am not a sore loser but i was part of the minority which lost in the postal services liberalisation proposal. we are all in this together. i am reminded of a story which is told in the united states about the famous mayor richard daley, who was mayor of several chicago administrations. in launching one of them he gave a speech and wanted to talk about new plateaux of achievement. but he made a mistake, as we are wont to do when we read our speeches quickly in politics. he committed his new administration to achieving ever-higher "platitudes" of achievement! it seems to me that we must ensure that is not the commitment we bring to lisbon, rather that we really drive forward. there is a message for stockholm that our commitment is real and deep and must be prioritised to deliver. progress on giving real credibility to food and consumer policy has been substantial in the past twelve months. much remains to be done, but very substantial progress has been made. on trade and development: my group supports the everything but arms proposition. i hope that as the commission itself contemplates the sensitivities in agriculture relating to the world trade organisation and to the agricultural reform debate, the sequencing of those debates will not be allowed to get in the way of the trade-related initiative. it is an important european initiative and i hope the college will go for it, notwithstanding some of the sequencing difficulties to do with other negotiations which may arise. the eldr believes that we need to focus more urgent attention on asylum and immigration. i congratulate mr vitorino on the work that has been brought forward, but tampere set an agenda and i wonder why, so long after tampere, we are still struggling to define what that agenda should be. regarding enlargement: my group is deeply committed to that process but i would say to the commission – and i say it also to this house and to mr solana – that we really need to focus quality time and attention on cyprus. it is not simply the acquis communautaire – they are doing very well on that. it is not simply their ability to implement the acquis – they can deliver on that. yet surrounding it are grave and serious political issues that are not getting the quality time and attention that we believe they need if this is to be a success. on the legislative programme: as regards its form i am glad it is going to the committees within the house. i am glad we get a chance to reflect on it and to look at the priorities. mr prodi has said that it is not simply an assembly of disparate ideas and indeed he has offered some priorities here. but i have looked at it. it is 49 pages of high-density non-communication. it is 49 pages covering 593 different initiatives. it is very difficult to find in this methodology which are the real priorities, where there is political passion and focus, and which are merely the issues that we have to deal with because they are part of due process. we have to move away from this. (applause) we have to change the way we do our business. i would hope that next september we will have something where each initiative, in methodological terms, is justified. i do not mean that everything here is not justified – but tell us the story. maybe we asked for some initiatives but, on reflection, we would say that they are not such a priority after all. how much of this came from the european council inviting the commission to take initiatives? we do not find the answers in here. i would like to see them. it is not a question of interfering with the commission's right of initiative in relation to the treaties, but a question of quality control. if i could say one last thing, it seems to me it would be very useful if we did this next september and completed the debate by december and that you, madam president, as president of this institution, and mr prodi, as president of the european commission, could go to the european council and tell them ex ante: this is our priority for europe. is it yours? that is how we need to do our business, to put a drive, a focus and an energy behind it. finally on nice – on après-nice – just to make a point. we in the european parliament should be involved in encouraging a wide and open debate as a prelude to a full institutional participation après-laeken. my group would insist in the post-laeken period on some convention-style method with deep involvement for the european parliament and the national parliaments to include the active engagement of council.(applause)
madam president, the agreement reached at nice will now pave the way for the enlargement of the union. this was the central objective that needed to be achieved during these treaty negotiations and i now believe that the way ahead is clear for candidate countries to join the union in the near future. the most immediate objective for the 15 existing members of the european union is to ensure that the treaty of nice is ratified across the union as soon as possible. the provisions of the treaty of nice cannot come into effect until the ratification process has been concluded within the 15 member states of the union. i note with interest that the agenda for this debate which we are having today is headed "follow-up to nice". i would caution all interested parties against discussing broader developments within the union before the ratification process has been comprehensively concluded within the european union. this is really the central dichotomy that exists within the union at this time. those who talk about broader political integration within the union take for granted that the ratification of the treaty of nice is a done deal. it is not a done deal. it is a deal that has to be sold to the 370 million citizens of the union in a manner that is easily understood and in a manner which commands the public support and good will of all our citizens. this is a criticism i would level against those in particular who propose putting into effect complete federal structures within the european union. there is at times an attitude in some european quarters to the effect that ‘we know best; we will bring about the appropriate changes and the people will thank us for them later’. that is not how political persuasion operates. we put forward proposals. we then persuade the people of europe to support them, whether within our respective parliament structures or by referendum. it is up to us, who support enlargement of the union and who recognise the absolute right of candidate countries to join the union, to convince our voting citizens of the importance of the provisions of the treaty of nice and of its broader political implications. what the european union should not do is to carry out any further debate on new political developments within the union before the treaty of nice has been ratified within any of our respective member states.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on having the wisdom of solomon, the patience of job and the tenacity of myself. in particular, this issue, which is difficult and has been a very arduous task for all of us in the legal affairs committee, has thrown up a number of conflicts, one of which most often mentioned within this house is the conflict between copyright-holders and consumers. many people feel that these two differing groups cannot be reconciled. i believe that within the present text we have the opportunity to reconcile these two parties, and to lay down a number of fundamental principles which could be copied in other parts of the world. these principles comprise, firstly, remuneration for those who are entitled to remuneration for creative works and for new ideas; secondly, the right of access to those works; thirdly, the rights of libraries and other institutions, educational institutions in particular, to make use of these works for research purposes; and fourthly the introduction of a number of exceptions to the copyright legislation to ensure that people with disabilities will not be unfairly discriminated against and to ensure that educational institutions can continue. this is no easy task. each of us has a right, and indeed a responsibility, to ensure that we can maintain the best possible balance for all within the fundamental principles of consumer rights and protection as well as remuneration for the artists.
mr president, i compliment mr bowe on his work in this area. commissioner byrne's white paper on food safety sets the ground rules and parameters within which the practical application of genetic research impacts on public health and the environment, and i have no doubt the vigilance of parliament is a further safeguard. while i have always favoured the application of safe and tested genetic research to agriculture, equally its practical application in future must be tempered by inevitable changes to agricultural practices resulting from the unrelated but nonetheless devastating consequences for farmers and consumers resulting from bse. the vigilance we are rightly demonstrating on the release of genetically modified organisms on the environment and food safety must be intensified with regard to research in the sensitive and ethical area of gene technology and its impact and implications for mankind. there is a silent abhorrence of some of this research by citizens who expect us to reflect their concerns in this parliament. as i said on a previous occasion we should not play god with research.
mr president, i should like to ask the commissioner whether there is anything that the commission can do to encourage the removal of the older animals from the national herd? it is obvious from the testing that has been taking place, at least in my own country, that all of the younger animals and animals over 30 months that have been tested are not in any way reacting positively to the test. so it is important to remove the older animals. can the commission encourage the removal of those older animals?
i congratulate the commissioner on his reply. however, he talks about eu values and standards. in response to questions i put about the continuation of the bombing of iraq and sanctions on iraq, the commission showed no concern for the fact that 5 to 6 000 children have died because of sanctions on iraq. so when i hear the commission talk about eu values and standards, in view of its support for sanctions on iraq i wonder how sincere it is about the children in turkey.
mr president, i very much welcome the guiding principles of this directive, namely the safety of the consumer and the single market. the basic underlying food-safety legislation is that safety should be established on the basis of scientific risk assessment and that consumers should be able to purchase products of their choice provided that they are safe. it is important that safety criteria form the basis of the directive, rather than arbitrary recommended daily allowances which would be unnecessarily restrictive and not related to safety. in the uk and ireland we indeed have a liberal regime and consumers there do not want their rights restricted. most vitamins and minerals have a clear nutritional function; other ingredients commonly included in supplements are not nutrients and do not therefore have a nutritional function but do have physiological function. the definition of a food supplement in the directive should reflect all supplements. if products are now excluded from the general definition, there is a danger that such products will in the future fall outside the scope of the legislation and remain unregulated. i very much recommend that you take on board the physiological function which unfortunately the rapporteur – and i do not agree with her – asked to be excluded from the report.
mr president, i should like to thank mrs emilia franziska müller for her patience with me for making her job a lot more difficult than it might otherwise have been. quite truthfully, a lot of what mr titford said resonated very strongly with me. i took some persuading that a directive such as this was necessary at all. i finally accept that, for example, in relation to oil-soluble vitamins there is a case to be made in terms of safety. but having scoured medical literature and asked colleagues to point out to me the scientific and medical evidence, i cannot find examples of people who have overdosed or killed themselves with vitamin c and various others. commissioner, as one of the busiest commissioners it is a matter of some fascination to me that this particular directive should come out of the pile, given the workload you have. i cannot understand the priority it has been given, but i accept that there is a general need to have harmonisation at upper safe levels. basically we must be driven by informed consumer choice and safety. we must assume that the intelligence quotient of the average european citizen is reasonable. we must desist from getting into the ‘nanny state’ frame of mind. dare i suggest that the next directive – seeing as you are in this mode at the moment, commissioner – should be a directive on bedtime. when we get up in the morning can we go to bed at night? there seems to be a need to direct our lives, to minimise risks and to tell us what to do. please do not take me seriously but i really am frustrated with the way we are headed. points made in relation to the physiological effects must be reinstated. i appeal through the president to my colleague to look at this again. i am quite upset at the way the oral amendment was bounced. i do not want to be told that i cannot take fibre, garlic, cranberry juice or folic acid, if i happen to be pregnant. i do not want my life regulated to that extent. it brings the commission and the european project into disrepute with citizens who are otherwise not eurosceptic at all. i appeal to you to get the balance right. it is most important.
mr president, i too would like to join my colleagues in thanking mrs jensen for her report and congratulating her on it. in the limited time that is available it is important that, as a number of speakers have already touched upon a number of disadvantaged groups or groups who are not doing so well in employment areas, we consider a number of aspects, the three most important ones being: equality of opportunity, equality of access and equality of training. equality of opportunity must mean that all jobs, all services that are available, are open to all equally. equality of access means that there should be no physical impediment towards people accessing training or employment opportunities. equality of education means that people must have the skills that are required for the jobs that are going to be available. we have moved from a time when there was heavy industrialised and intensive labour areas of industry, to other smaller networks, smaller cooperation. we need to look more towards giving the skills and training to young people, middle-aged people, elderly people and those living in urban and rural areas to guarantee that they have equality of access to that training and new jobs. the national action plans on employment, under the luxembourg process, are very useful to us in ensuring that we use the carrot and stick with the member states. we can give extra resources where they are providing good jobs and meeting their targets and we can take them back when they are not doing it.
mr president, at the outset i want to take the opportunity of congratulating mr gasòliba i böhm on the preparation and presentation of his report. i wish during this debate to take the opportunity of addressing economic growth, in particular in my own country of ireland. let me immediately state that i support the provisions of the treaty of amsterdam which call for the need to coordinate broad economic policies of the various participating member states within the single european currency. however, any proposals which are brought forward in this regard, whether it be via the european commission or otherwise, must be fair and they must be balanced. ireland has consistently supported the european union and this has been borne out in all of the referenda in my country, where the citizens – and it does not happen in every country – have been given the right to express their views in relation to europe. i do not believe that the proposals which were put forward by the european commissioner, mr solbes, were particularly balanced with regard to these proposed recommendations concerning the workings of the irish economy at this time. it is important to substantiate this and it is important to note that for a number of years the economic growth in my country has been between 10 and 12% – in sharp contrast with the late 1980s when it was 0%. the provision for the current year is for a growth of around 8%. unemployment figures are as close as you will get to full employment in today's union. we are one of the few member states making massive provisions for future pensions. we are proud of the fact that many countries in the world are desperately trying to improve their economic situation and they are using the irish model as a reference. and yes, mr president and commissioner, our inflation is falling. it is falling significantly – and am i wrong in stating that other member states have higher inflation rates than ours? i did not hear that mentioned recently. it seems to me that the biggest sin we have committed in our country is to reward the people with tax cuts and increases in salary. here, the commission conveniently forgets that before the economic boom the citizens of our country were required to make major sacrifices in order to achieve that boom. but according to the commission there can be no question of them reaping the benefits. are we to be the victims of our own success? it is for these reasons i believe that those detractors who are voicing concerns about the operation of the irish economy are over-reacting. the majority of the people in my own country support our minister for finance and the only people who do not are those in opposition in my country and they are using the recommendation of the commission for what they deem to be short-term political advantage. any suggestions from any quarter that ireland should suffer as a result of the success of the irish economy is a very serious threat.
in writing. - the ban will remain because new gmo approvals are unacceptable until an appropriate community biosafety framework is developed and implemented by all member states. in fact, such approvals would run counter to the precautionary principle to which the new directive explicitly refers and would threaten the environment and consumer health. member states should oppose any attempt to end the de facto moratorium through 'gentleman's agreements' with biotechnology companies. thanks to the efforts of the greens, the new directive will also require the registration of all places of release of gmos in a public register. it will also ensure new and higher safety standards for environmental and public health protection, build on a broader approach to risk assessment and introduce new traceability and control concepts that could help to accelerate the identification and control of the adverse effects of gmos. however, some elements of this framework - traceability and labelling of gmos and products derived from them, liability for damage caused by gmos and implementation of the cartagena protocol on biosafety - have not yet been dealt with in legislation. voting for the directive would be like buying a cat in a bag. last year, more than 6 000 hectares of land in four eu member states were planted with rape seedlings contaminated by genetically modified plants. the directive requires member states to put an end to such unauthorized dissemination.
in writing. - irish superstars such as boyzone and the corrs have asked the european parliament to protect their music in the internet age. it is very important for the music and publishing industry in ireland to be able to legally access works via the internet. it is particularly important that the success of young musicians and emerging performers is not threatened by piracy. without proper protection against internet piracy, the music industry would collapse. the rights of authors and creators of all kinds are a priority, but the directive also aims to allow libraries to continue making copies for private use. the libraries, however, acknowledged that copyright was a priority.
in writing. - i declare that i have an interest in copyright. a legal adviser, however, pointed out that i had the right to vote as an author. i'm not a paid lobbyist.
mr president, i come to this debate today with a lot of reservations because of some of the comments made by other speakers in a previous debate. in particular when we speak about the free movement of workers, as was pointed out in the two previous debates on lisbon and on the lipietz report, the free movement of workers is not just about internal barriers. it is not just about lack of social security protection. it is also about lack of recognition and about hindrances at national level whereby the internal market is not completed. it is about lack of recognition of qualifications. it is about lack of opportunity for training and also a lack of opportunity for knowledge of what opportunities and what rights are available to people. so when we speak about the free movement of workers and when we speak about updating regulations we should be clearer in our focus on two points, namely that, firstly, in nice the governments decided that this should be done by unanimous voting, not by qualified majority voting, and secondly that there should be no discrimination – either positive or negative – against any worker who is legally resident within the member states of the european union. my group will therefore be supporting the resolution from the ppe-de group. (applause)
it is not only the e in environment that is a priority for the swedish presidency, but also, as the honourable member will know, the e in enlargement. in the context of the negotiations with the applicant countries, the transport chapter is one of the most important chapters. these negotiations are based primarily on the existing common regulatory framework, but they nevertheless give us the opportunity to point out to the candidate countries the important issues of sustainable development that the council is discussing, in this case in the field of transport. the principles are therefore being raised in the context of the negotiations on the transport chapter with the respective candidate countries.
mr president, this question of sustainability is indeed of great interest and the priority of the swedish presidency is welcome. but what our citizens want to know is what is the council planning to do to ensure the public dissemination of the results of the cardiff process to all citizens and governments of member states and accession countries? i do not think the council has been particularly active in the past. i know that the swedish presidency wants to change that and involve citizens more extensively and be more transparent. i want some information about that and specifically about the industry council. the council is committed to a full-blown strategy by 2004. what short-term targets or actions and indicators will be needed to ensure its full development? how will the external impact of the industry strategy be evaluated? you have also referred at length to energy. energy efficiency is an important priority. we have a report about to go before this house in brussels. will you take any steps on the action plan for energy efficiency?
mr president, i would like to commend the rapporteur on his excellent report. as parliament's rapporteur on hong kong, the current status of the macau special administrative region holds obvious interest to me, and i have been fortunate enough to visit the region twice within the last year. on the positive side, macau's economy has progressed significantly since the handover, enjoying a 4% growth in gdp during the year 2000. another positive development is edmond ho hau-wah's stated intention of breaking up the casino monopoly and aiming to create an asian equivalent of atlantic city. i welcome the fact that macau's crime rate has also improved. statistics show that the overall drop in crime is around 5% and that the police have significantly reduced gang-related crime involving the gambling industry. on the negative side the unemployment rate has reached 7% causing unrest among workers. their fears and uncertainties have been compounded because of their belief that immigrants will pose a threat to future employment. macau does boast a sound education system but its economic dependence on gambling and textiles, and its failure to attract high-tech industries do not augur well for the future employment prospects of the young population. other worrying developments are the claims of police brutality made by falangong practitioners who were refused entry to macau during the visit of president jiang and who were also denied the right to protest against the government's crackdown on the group. furthermore, president jiang's plea to macau's government not to allow criticism of beijing raises fundamental questions about the chinese government's commitment to allow freedom of expression which is fundamental to the success of the one-country two-systems policy. overall, progress has been made since the handover and that progress can be described as satisfactory. however, it is imperative, as also with hong kong, to continue monitoring to ensure that there is no erosion of democracy, human rights and freedoms. i can assure the last speaker that this is not simply an issue of interest to the portuguese. it is an issue of interest, not only to the european union, but to the world and those who want to see macau and hong kong progress, so that basic freedoms are guaranteed and are not eroded by the country to which they have been handed back.
mr president, i want to thank mrs evans for her contribution on this subject. i had no contact with her but i separately put down a motion for my own group and i speak on their behalf on this subject. my good friend thomas mann spoke about the denial of the right to practise religion in one part of the world. but it is just as serious when human rights are denied because people want to impose their religious beliefs on other people. whether it be the imposition of one's religious beliefs or the denial of the right to practice one's religion, one is as bad as the other. it is quite hard to be moderate in the language we use to condemn this barbarous and cruel act which took place against a 17-year-old girl in nigeria. a girl who claimed she had been forced to have sex but failed to produce in court the witnesses to support her claim. the cruelty of the sentence, and the fact that she had given birth one month before, makes it very difficult for us to accept any assurances from the government of nigeria that they are protecting the civil rights of their people and their own population. we should remember that we in the european union and the united states of america are the main trading partners of nigeria. we are the people who buy and sell almost all the things they want to buy and sell. we have an obligation to examine the record in human rights of the people we do business with. i would ask the european commission to take into consideration standards of human rights in all the aid schemes and cooperation schemes that the european union puts into effect. this is the worst we have heard of to date but we understand there are amputations taking place in nigeria for relatively minor offences. some people condemn globalisation, but if there is one good thing about globalisation it means that the world becomes interdependent and we have at least some pressure we can apply.
madam president, commissioner, when we in ireland signed up for economic and monetary union, we accepted the central tenet of economic and monetary union, namely closer coordination of economic and budgetary policies of member states. the key elements in this process are the stability and growth pact, which is at the heart of economic policy coordination. secondly, we have the annual, and i underline annual, broad economic policy guidelines – a lesser known element of the economic policy development process. as well as european-wide, there are country-specific guidelines identifying policy priorities and particular circumstances. commissioner, i was listening carefully to see if i could extract from what you said precisely what breaches of the country-specific guidelines ireland is guilty of to warrant the recommendations of the ecofin council under article 99 of the treaty, last monday, at your behest. our finance minister, charlie mccreevy, told the irish parliament this week that he had no problem with advice to ireland setting out the council's view of the appropriate policy mix to achieve economic stability. but he felt this view should have taken the form of an opinion, as in the normal course, particularly in view of the comparative performance of the irish economy relative to other eu member states. an opinion, commissioner, rather than a recommendation. was a recommendation an even-handed and proportionate response? would not an opinion have sufficed, given the very heavy political fall-out from the recommendation in ireland, where we are in an election year and very likely face a referendum on nice, this episode has been oats to the eurosceptics. and the same applies elsewhere, particularly in the united kingdom. there is also nervousness about the commission's involvement in tax policy generally in the post-nice situation. this latest episode does not help. i fail to see why ireland's transgressions could not have been handled more tactfully, more diplomatically, with more understanding – both by you, commissioner, and indeed by our somewhat maverick, though genial, finance minister. to many observers it appears to have been in the end about egos and macho behaviour all round – all in the context of an economic turnaround in ireland in the last six to seven years that is the envy of many. the charge is that ireland is to seek to achieve economic stability and, in that context, our last budget was deemed to be over-inflationary. there are occasions when "a one size fits all" economic model does not fit. the biggest threat to ireland at the moment is wage inflation fuelled by 75,000 job vacancies. securing the continuation of social partnership with our unions, employers, farmers and government and, through it, wage moderation has to be a priority for our government given its huge contribution to our economic success over many years. i agree that a 10% increase in the gdp per annum is not sustainable, given the pressure on labour supply and house prices. but even ibec, our employers' confederation, has said that our budget must be understood in the context of social partnership. if i had to point to one single factor that has contributed more than any other to the turnaround in the irish economy, i would have to cite the social partners' agreement which allowed us to trade competitively in the single market and to attract inward investment because of the stability it brought to wage negotiations. i regret the unseemly public debate over the censure, the lack of diplomacy in handling this issue by both sides and the very negative political fallout that has ensued. time does not allow me to run the numbers of irish economic success. i have no doubt my colleagues coming after me will do so.
madam president, i do not take the same approach as my colleague, mrs doyle. the irish government's response to the european commission and to ecofin has been arrogant and reckless. reckless, because it has needlessly damaged the standing of ireland in the union and because it feeds xenophobia in ireland by putting in doubt the possibility of the nice treaty being ratified. reckless, because it feeds eurosceptism in the uk and denmark and it cannot be in the long-term interests of either europe or ireland for either denmark, the uk or indeed sweden to remain outside the eurozone. i deplore the stance taken by the irish government. i believe that its position is being driven by the growing eurosceptism in the two minority government parties. for example the deputy prime minister, ms mary harney, recently indicated her preference for the american economic model rather than the european social model, stating we are closer to boston than berlin. i do not agree, however, with the mep from the ppe-de, mr werner langen, who is quoted in the irish independent newspaper today as saying that ireland should be further penalised by the withdrawal of cohesion funds. such a step would be a gross overreaction as well as being illegal. i would call again on the irish government to accept the ecofin decision and to sit down with the commission to discuss how it can best be implemented. i would also call on the minister for finance to accept the long-standing invitation from the economic and monetary affairs committee of this parliament to come and talk to us and explain the irish position in detail, so that we can understand it and learn from it. in the irish parliament this week, the minister for finance outlined five main points on which he claimed he was at odds with the commission and ecofin. he claimed that the commission recommendation and the ecofin decision are unreasonable, unwarranted and a misreading of the irish economy. he stated that the irish tax cuts made over the past three years have been contractionary, not inflationary. he said that the irish budgets have not been procyclical as measured by the commission's own calculations. he stated that the commission methodology overstates fiscal loosening this year because it does not take into account once-off factors such as a shorter fiscal year in 2001 and he stated that an opinion would have been a more appropriate step than a reprimand. the commissioner has dealt to some extent with some aspects of that case. i would like to hear commissioner solbes address this house today in detail on those points so that we can have some clarity as to the issues that are actually in dispute between the irish government and the european union.
madam president, first of all i want to thank you for chairing this session and also to thank the commissioner for coming along. tight control of budgetary spending since 1987, alongside a strong model of social partnership where the unions, employers and government came together, are two of the main planks of the present success of the irish economy. alongside this, our intention and our commitment to investing in education and in building up infrastructure and in particular to utilise the new opportunities in information technology are the further elements of this success. in ireland we have a commonly used phrase – "if it is not broken, why fix it". our present growth rate at 11% is over three times the average of other member states. we have a budget surplus of nearly 5% of our gross domestic product. our debt/ gdp ratio is only 39%. tax and expenditure levels at 33% make ireland one of the lowest tax regimes in europe. we have a binding commitment to provide 1% of our annual gross national product to meet our future public pension bills. indeed the latest figures show that inflation, as measured on the harmonised european basis, in ireland has now fallen to 3.9%. this rate of inflation is lower than in several of the larger member states within the eu, if a comparison is made on the latest available economic data, for example, spain. i would also like to remind the european commission that before the recent economic success in ireland, the irish people were required to make major sacrifices so as to guarantee that economic growth could take place. ireland does contribute and wants to continue to contribute to the positive development of policies and programmes within the european union. ireland will shortly become a net contributor to the european union budget where previously it was a net beneficiary. as well as that, irish waters are opened up to european fishing fleets to ensure the continued success of the european fishing industry. i believe that the economic recommendations, which would help to improve the irish economy, should be listened to and taken heed of. however, on this occasion, i believe that the european commission has misjudged the special nature of how the irish economy operates. moreover, i do not think it fully appreciates how far we have travelled in actual terms in the improvement of our economic performance. i will give to the commissioner a list of figures to put it into context. in 1991 the provisions of the maastricht treaty were agreed by eu leaders, and the green light was given to the operation of the single currency. ireland's gdp in 1991 was iep29 billion. it is now 10 years later iep80 billion. in 1991 we had to borrow iep760 million to keep public services going. today we have a budget surplus. in 1991, 1.15 million people were in our workforce. today we have 1.67 million. with regard to specific events of recent weeks, i believe that any mention of financially reprimanding ireland, which is being suggested in some quarters, would be a highly regressive step. bullyboy tactics of this sort are hardly the ingredients to build closer economic cooperation or coordination. coercion and coordination are two diametrically opposed political and human theories. the european union has prospered in a spirit of cooperation between various member states working together, pursuing common political interests. the eu will not prosper into the future if confrontation is the order of the day. i am elected to represent the people of ireland, and i and my colleagues in this parliament will continue to represent what is in the best interests of the people of ireland. in conclusion, the holding of this debate on this occasion is very welcome. we welcome the opportunity to shout from the rooftops how proud we are of our performance.
madam president, i believe that the commission's censure of ireland is a serious breach of ireland's democratic freedom. the freedom of an elected government to frame its own budget in accordance with its electoral commitments is fundamental to democracy. i therefore urge ireland's minister of finances not to renege on his promises to increase spending, on health in particular, and to lower taxes, especially for the lower-paid. i hold no brief for tax cuts for the wealthy, nor is this a budget that would be proposed by the green party. nevertheless it is a programme that has been negotiated with the social partners. ireland has particular difficulties with inflation because of its traditional ties of trade with the uk, which remains outside the eurozone. this is an aspect of irish inflation which has been completely ignored by the european commission. in fact, if the european commission had deliberately decided on a course which would alienate the uk from joining the euro, by revealing itself to be an out-of-date bureaucracy which tries to bully elected governments in ways that are completely outside its brief, it could not have done better. this is absolute political stupidity to say the least. this interference with the irish budget is the result of the maastricht treaty; the commission is even trying to get governments to agree their budgets with it in advance, which was not part of the treaty. i therefore anticipate a resounding rejection of the nice treaty in the irish referendum this summer because of this unwarranted interference and because this is a very bad treaty, as many in this house agree. since 1994 the cumulative increase in employment has been 39 per cent. today the economy is close to full employment, which is a huge sea change for ireland. irish unit labour costs are still more than 10 per cent below the eurozone average. therefore both wage rises and tax cuts for the low paid are on the agenda for ireland in 2001. i believe the commission is deliberately trying to interfere in a field beyond its competence. we must not let this happen. over the last five years there has been a dangerous increase in inequality with the rich becoming very rich and the poor becoming ever more marginalised. we will not and cannot tolerate this continuing.
i want to thank parliament for debating this issue. i encouraged mr von wogau to table this question because i believed that parliament would treat this important precedent in a fair and balanced way – and indeed it has. furthermore, i recognise that everything discussed in the commission was in secret and everything discussed in the council was in secret. and we had to accept the press releases from the propagandists when it was all over. so, at least in this house we have an open and democratic airing of the whole subject, and i welcome that very much. one thing we speakers from ireland forgot to say was how much the european union has contributed to the success we have. i do not want to go into all the details, but i want to mention one factor that is underestimated, which is the way that the irish economy – being small and open – responded to the internal market. it is no coincidence that ireland took off the day that borders were abolished in europe and we got a free market. that was important. another thing that is exaggerated is the transfers of money. a commission study, when ireland had an economic growth rate of 10%, showed that the transfer of structural funds to ireland only contributed 1.5%, if that. so the people who say that ireland has grown on handouts from europe are exaggerating. what disappoints me about all this is the shock expressed by the irish finance minister. he was told this by the irish economic and social research institute, just as the commission told him. he was told it by the irish employers' association. he was told it by the central banks. and if he had a problem with it – with the trade unions demanding increased wages – it was because his policies had already stoked inflation and had already undermined their real incomes. even if we were not in the union and in monetary union, we would still be affected by the decisions taken by the european union. in that sense, there is no such thing as sovereignty for a small, open economy like ireland. the minister is reputed to be a sportsman. a sportsman should have obeyed the referee when he blew the whistle when somebody broke the rules. even if there is room for argument about whether the commission was right or wrong, for our minister in his arrogance and our tanaiste to pretend that they could not accept or understand that was dishonest and unfair.
madam president, the commissioner finished his speech by saying that not that many consequences can be drawn from this case. i agree, which precisely raises the question: "why bother?" i accept that, as a commission, you have the right to do what you did. as guardian of the treaty, you have the duty to act, if you believe that is correct. i accept that ecofin endorsed the judgment of the commission. the irish government too has a right and duty to defend its policy preferences, where it feels it is right to do so. i do not question your right, commissioner, to do what you did, but i question your judgment. i believe it was the wrong judgment in the context of such an important precedent-setting example. i believe the irish response was the wrong response because it was too petulant. i believe both the commission and the irish response to the commission's recommendation lacked proportionality. two wrongs do not make a right. in the grey economic space, the budget was inflationary, but, on the supply side, the tax change will bring greater participation in a stretched labour force. the tax change will lower wage expectations and therefore inflationary expectations. the capital expenditure will get rid of infrastructural bottlenecks; the case is at best a grey case.
madam president, i should like to say on behalf of my group that we welcome the fact that this announcement was made first in this house and not to the media or elsewhere.
the fact that bse and its impact both on farmers and consumers continues to dominate our political agenda is an indication of the seriousness of the current crisis. however, the preventive measures that have been put in place such as the ban on meat-and-bone meal should, on scientific evidence, see the elimination of bse and its threat to human health. the testing of all animals over 30 months and the removal of specified risk material should go a long way in restoring consumer confidence. for example, in ireland, out of 48 000 cattle tested there has not been one reactor to the bse test, and to me that is an indication that the disease is confined to other animals in the suckler cow and dairy herds. my concern is that it will take some time through natural wastage to effect their removal and i would ask the commissioner to examine ways of expediting this process. the emergence of bse in the older animal group tends to undermine consumer confidence even if they are not destined for the food chain. i agree with the commissioner on the need to rebalance the market. the ‘purchase for destruction’ scheme may be necessary in the short term but it is immoral and certainly alien to the ethos of farming. i would urge the commission again to examine the possibilities and its policy in relation to food aid. there are a lot of people who believe, commissioner, that something more positive could be done with this quality meat product. i caution against panic measures in relation to the long-term future of europe’s beef industry. we must be optimistic even in the face of crisis and plan for a viable future, albeit within a new framework, in relation to production at farm level. in conclusion, from an irish perspective, i believe that any attempt to reduce the size of the beef herd would be contrary to our national interest.
mr president, i support the supplementary budget and recognise the need for it. i support the idea of the 70/30 ratio, as we have had in the past. i want to point out that there are people in this parliament who think that, because we reduce the european budget and force the member states to take up the cost, we are saving the european taxpayers from something. nothing could be further from the truth. the question is whether the money is paid through the european union or through the national governments. in any case, the crisis is here and it will cost the european taxpayers. it is not the appropriate strategy for the members of this house to recommend that we should pass our responsibilities on to the national governments. i would also like to underline the fact again that in this european union we seem to think, when we introduce a supplementary budget of this size, that it is a major burden on the taxpayers of europe. it is actually a relatively small amount. the budget of the european union is a little over 1%. now the member states which fight hardest and most vociferously against increasing that budget are the ones that take 47-50% and spend it themselves. so the european union takes 1%, of which in the past, agriculture took 80%. today agriculture takes about 40%, so as a percentage of gnp the budget of the european union takes a lot less from the european tax-payers than it did 15 to 20 years ago. the other point i should like to make is that so many people, by connecting these outbreaks of disease with the common agricultural policy, tend to somehow blame the cap for the problem. the truth is that the european consumer never had cheaper food and never had safer food. the evidence for that is in the longevity and the health of people. even in the poorest regions of this union and in the poorest cities and towns we do not see hungry children any more because this union has guaranteed and supplied cheap food of a high quality. we should remember that. so what are the solutions to the problem? i would have preferred to hear the commissioner plan for what consumption will be for the next three or four years and take immediate measures to reduce production. i do not agree with my irish colleague, mr hyland, that it is in anybody’s interest to produce something for destruction.
is the commission in a position to give us reassurances in relation to the armagh case straddling the border between the north of ireland and the republic, where we have word today of a suspect case again; sheep imported from carlisle mart, some of which have apparently travelled onward down south to the republic. in fact, as i am talking to you, i have just heard of gossip – and let’s hope that is all it is – of sheep in wexford, my own constituency, having been identified and being incinerated as we talk. again, that remains to be confirmed but apparently there is a spread of sheep from carlisle to a mart in armagh, which straddles the border of the leinster euro constituency i represent and the exclusion zone. could the commissioner give us any update on that? hopefully, again it is only a suspect case and will remain so. is the commissioner satisfied that the vigilance and disinfection facilities at all ports and airports in the eu, but particularly in ireland and great britain, are as they should be, and has he a role in that area?
as the commissioner knows, this latest problem coming in the wake of the bse crisis threatens to destroy agriculture and indeed unravel the entire cap. there have been lots of rumours about people knowingly withholding information about outbreaks, or indeed movements of livestock. is it possible for the commissioner to talk to member state governments to see whether it is possible under their own legal systems to take criminal prosecutions against those who act in such an irresponsible way? secondly, does the commissioner welcome the voluntary action by many responsible people in sporting and other fields to curtail the movement of people. in that regard, in my own country, would he particularly acknowledge the responsible and unselfish act of the new leader of fine gael in scaling down its àrd fheis to a dublin conference to contribute to ensuring that there is no major problem in ireland? (laughter)
i would like to join my colleagues in congratulating the rapporteurs on their work, and also commending their work to the house, because of the cooperation that there was between the different rapporteurs. however, one of my key areas of concern with regard to the e-commerce and e-europe revolution is equality of access for consumers. members have already mentioned the costs and the tariffs that are associated with the different structures. however, we are seeing a new divide being created between the haves and have-nots as regards digital technology and access to it. one of the key components which must be enshrined within all liberalisation or competition law in this area is the question of universal access for all, so that no matter where anybody is living they have the same access as somebody living in a large urbanised area. we also need to ensure that people of a different generation from the present younger generation are not disadvantaged because of lack of access to training for this new means of communication and this new information network. the final point that i would make is that we must move to a system where there is a flat rate for access to information technology and not allow internal competition to arise which will block the further expansion of this new global system.
first of all i would like to support very much what my colleague mr piétrasanta said and say that our group will be voting for the reports by mr piétrasanta and mr varela suanzes-carpegna. i only have two points i want to make. the first concerns the very important amendment tabled by my colleague mr piétrasanta in committee. stocks of blue and white marlin are severely depleted in the atlantic and they do need protection. in 1996 icat adopted a resolution saying that the contracting party should promote the use of mono-filament leaders in recreational and long-line fisheries. this gear helps with the live release of marlin and so can contribute to the conservation of the stocks. mr piétrasanta wanted to strengthen this resolution by saying that the gear should be obligatory rather than just simply encouraged. after all the stocks need our help. however, the amendment was defeated as it would have interfered with the catching of sharks by eu industry. however, there are no international or even european regulations on shark-fishing and these species are also in some cases over-fished. it is unacceptable to reject measures to conserve depleted species because they would hurt completely unregulated fisheries for other depleted species. the second point i want to make is in relation to the financial contribution report by mr varela suanzes-carpegna. member states should finance measures, including observer programmes, to monitor their responsibilities. the commission has offered to fund half the cost and that is sufficient. we will be opposing one amendment, but supporting the overall report.
rapporteur. – the protocol of the fisheries agreement between the union and equatorial guinea expired at the end of last june. it was therefore decided to extend the protocol by one year and a new protocol was initialled by both parties on 16 june 2000. this new protocol fixes the technical and financial conditions governing the fishing activities of community vessels in the waters of equatorial guinea during the period 1 july 2000 to 30 june 2001. the protocol concerns tuna only. it is important as it will ensure the continuity of community tuna activities in the gulf of guinea. there has been an uptake of licences by french, spanish, portuguese and one italian vessel. the current proposal is a result of problems which transpired during the negotiations for the conclusion of a new protocol. the delegation from equatorial guinea encountered several difficulties in attending meetings with the commission. although these problems have now been resolved, there was not sufficient time for substantial negotiations to be undertaken. the current proposal, which i support, will ensure continuity while negotiations for a new protocol are carried out in the course of this year. the current agreement provides little in the way of serious targeted measures and contains no provisions to ensure their transparent implementation or any assessment of the result. a project aimed at setting up a proper system for fisheries management in guinea must be embarked upon, so as to ensure that atlantic yellow fin tuna and big-eye tuna stocks are not increasingly over-exploited. an explicit reference to the application of icat rules should be included in the text of the next protocol. i support the commission’s approach that in future negotiations with third countries, there should be a high percentage of special measures. this should also be the case with equatorial guinea. as rapporteur, i can support the proposed extension of the protocol for one year. i would stress the need for greater efforts to ensure that any new protocol is subject to a proper control system and that there is adequate transparency in the operation of the agreement. i would urge the commission to bear this in mind during the forthcoming negotiations. the three amendments which i have tabled are consistent with the points i have just raised and they are also consistent with the traditional approach of this parliament. i would like in conclusion to point out that the council had already adopted this proposal last monday. of course, this is nothing new. it happens on a regular basis and we all have an opportunity to make it very clear to the commission in this debate that we do not accept this. of course, it has happened time and time again and we must do something to try and control this. this is something that all of us on the fisheries committee regret. it poses the question as to whether the work carried out in the committee and today’s debate have been a total waste of time. i would hope not but i would sincerely hope that the commission and the council will take on-board the recommendations contained in my report before adopting a more permanent protocol. finally i would like to take the opportunity to pay tribute and thank the secretariat of the fisheries committee for their assistance and also the secretariat in my own group.
it will be no surprise to anyone that the greens will vote against this agreement, as we do with all third-country fisheries agreements. i have one specific question for commissioner fischler. the agreement with equatorial guinea concerns tuna, but equatorial guinea is a well-known flag of convenience country. members of icat, including the eu, have agreed to prohibit the importation of big-eye and blue fin tuna from equatorial guinea. i presume that negotiations are already proceeding for the next agreement, as this one expires in june. could the eu not use its influence to encourage equatorial guinea to cease allowing vessels to use its flag to fish illegally. the eu is concerned about the growing use of flags of convenience. this would seem to be a very good opportunity to get one state at least to be more cooperative with international legal norms.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gallagher, for his report and also for the support he has given to our proposal. all those who have pointed out the excellent fishing relations with equatorial guinea are right. these relations go back to 1984. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the previous protocol to this agreement expired on 30 june last year. firstly, however, the negotiations on a new protocol failed and we were able to agree with equatorial guinea to extend the old protocol for one year. since 1 july last year the provisions of the protocol have been applied provisionally, so to speak, without any change in the fishing opportunities or the financial compensation. in the meantime, thank god, a new protocol for the next three years was initialled earlier this month. the text of the protocol is currently undergoing internal procedures in the commission and will then be submitted to parliament and the council for adoption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. however, i do not think they belong in the text of the regulation, since the transmission of the required reports and information to parliament is already regulated in the framework agreement signed by our two institutions on 5 july 2000. the commission cannot accept amendment no 3, because that would be contrary to the existing principle that fisheries protocols are annexes to the framework agreements and that their renewal does not require a separate negotiating mandate from the council. it goes without saying that the commission will always follow the guidelines laid down by the council during the negotiations, which was of course the case during these negotiations. the question raised in connection with cape verde is this: i cannot share the view that there should be a particular problem here, because what was offered was rejected by us and especially by the main member state concerned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but since there is no possibility of exporting cape verde to the union for various reasons, that would have made little sense, because then we would have no access to this fish at all. i cannot agree with the amendment by mrs attwooll and mr busk that shipowners and not the community should bear the costs of the agreement with equatorial guinea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these guidelines provide that the costs are to be borne jointly by the community and the shipowners, with the shipowners' contribution being in the form of royalties.
i know that it is very late at night and everyone is very tired but i did ask a specific question of the commissioner and i think the commissioner misunderstood me. the greens are voting against this agreement, as we do with all third-country agreements. we are not happy, as you said in your introduction, in relation to the agreement with equatorial guinea. the question is in relation to flags of convenience. equatorial guinea is notorious in relation to that and you did not address the question. maybe it is too late tonight, but we would like an answer because you are negotiating, despite the fact that there is an agreement to ban tuna imports and this agreement is very much related to that. we need a reply. maybe it is too late tonight, but it is important.
mr president, i share the view of saddam hussein expressed in this house. the iraqi government will have to abide by the rule of international law. so too might i suggest should the united states and britain. as an admirer of the ancient civilisation of the iraqi people, i find it hard to accept that the population has been allowed to suffer so much in the economic interests of others and been attacked both from within and without. first there was the iran/iraq war; a war sponsored by the west in the main. iraq was given technology and weapons to pursue that war. us president reagan was famously quoted as saying about saddam hussein “he’s a sonofabitch, but he’s our sonofabitch”. the technology for chemical weapons flowed to baghdad. the western military/industrial complex had a field day and poured its weapons into baghdad. kuwait encroached on iraqi oilfields and the us ambassador gave the iraqi government the impression that the us would not object to an invasion. that was an enormous misinterpretation by the iraqis and they suffered the consequence. it was right to impose sanctions in the immediate aftermath of iraq’s expulsion from kuwait, but it is certainly not right to continue them in their present form. it is estimated that 1.5 million people have died since the introduction of sanctions. the former us secretary of state, madeleine albright, considered 5,000 children a month as a price worth paying to get rid of saddam hussein. he is still there. but all those children who have died are not. what did they know about sanctions? sanctions hurt the citizens, as has been said already here. they do not hurt the elite of the state on which the sanctions are imposed. the islamic world is outraged, and rightly so, at the genocidal policies being pursued in iraq. they are storing up resentment and even hatred among the people in the middle east and the islamic nations throughout the world. un sanctions are applied with a ferocity that tears apart the fragile consensus of the region. it also plays into the hands of saddam hussein who has remained unchallenged for the past thirty years. he is more popular among the arab people now than ever before.
could i raise an issue in advance of question time next week. at the last plenary session i tabled a question to the council, in time and in full accordance with the rules, yet the presidency refused to answer the question because they had not received all language translations. i do not see why i should be penalised if all language translations are not available, and i would ask you to give a ruling, if not today, subsequently, that when a member of parliament tables a question in full accordance with the rules, they are entitled to an answer at the appropriate time.
in writing. - the fianna fail delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the supplementary budget to finance the programme for the eradication of mad cow disease and the resolution associated with it - this, however, not without serious reservations. we are pleased that the amendment to limit the financial contribution of the european union to 50% was rejected by a large majority. that would have been unacceptable to us, to the irish government and to our farming community. we have felt from the outset that mad cow disease is a community problem and should therefore be financed entirely by the community. the initial figures of a community participation of 70% and a national participation of 30%, mentioned in the haug report, were adopted by a very large majority. meps from fianna fail voted against this proposal. at present, community rules do not allow for a greater community participation. so our choice was limited, as unfortunately it turned out. the fianna fail group has requested a vote by appeal on the final paragraph of the resolution, which refers to codecision for the cap. we voted against this paragraph. the european parliament does not have the competence or the authority to grant itself, by means of a vote, co-decision powers. this is the responsibility of the heads of state and government - and only of them. it's not on their agenda. in addition, in accordance with the treaties, no revision of the cap will take place before 2003 or 2004. finally, this is purely a budgetary question. any discussion on the reform of the cap will take place in due course. that time hasn't come yet. for all the reasons mentioned above, the fianna fail meps approved the recommendations made by the committee on budgets (the haug report).
madam president, i wish to raise a matter which is not, but should be, on this week's agenda – the foot-and-mouth disease crisis in europe. it seems extraordinary that this parliament, which represents the people of europe, is not addressing this question this week, given the deepening of the crisis since the commission last spoke. i obviously have a particular concern in that this crisis is threatening a eur 15bn food industry in the republic of ireland because of the steps we have had to take to ensure that foot-and-mouth disease does not get a hold there. it seems to me that this is a matter of concern not just to people in ireland but to people everywhere in europe. i would ask you, madam president, to take the initiative and request the commissioner to come to parliament this week to make an up-to-date statement on this crisis. i am quite sure that we can find at least 30 minutes to enable the commissioner to do that, and to demonstrate that this is a credible political forum for the people of europe.
madam president, i would urge you to consider the position that now exists in relation to the foot-and-mouth crisis in the united kingdom. i respect the point you make, that this was discussed by the conference of presidents last week and given the situation at that time it was decided not to place it on the agenda this week. could i just point out the number of outbreaks in the uk yesterday was higher than at any time in the three weeks since the crisis started. the situation is now out of control and even though the british agriculture minister is insisting there is no crisis, the whole of the eu views with alarm what is happening in the uk. ireland has a particular interest, but so do the french, as do all of us in the 15 member states and beyond. the situation has changed so much since the matter was discussed by the council of presidents that i would urge you to find time, perhaps during the discussion of the regulation you have just referred to, for us to have a commission update this week here in parliament. (applause)
madam president, i would like to add my voice to those who are calling for an emergency debate on the escalating crisis with regard to foot-and-mouth disease in great britain. i am not raising this subject with the intention of embarrassing the british government in any way, but i am extremely concerned for european farmers, for the british farmers who are bearing the brunt of the crisis at the present time, and, in particular, i am concerned for farmers in ireland. you will be aware that ireland depends more than any other member state of the european community on the beef industry. we export 90% of our entire production. for that reason it is extremely important that the most severe restrictions are put into place in great britain. i believe you should invite the commissioner to come and give his views on the overwhelming crisis that we are going through at the present time. i would ask you, as you have always done in the past, to find the time for an emergency debate on this matter. (applause)
madam president, i have been indicating for a long time that i wished to speak. it is rather unfair that if you are at the back of the chamber or if you are not at least six foot tall, you cannot gain attention. i just want to make one point in relation to this whole issue of foot-and-mouth. as one of my colleagues from ireland mentioned, it cannot be taken in isolation because of the amount that ireland exports. european tax-payers are funding the live export of animals, which is just exacerbating the situation. we have to stop live exports. in fact, that is what is responsible for bringing it into northern ireland. luckily, the irish government has been able to contain it; the same goes for britain. so really we have to bring an end to european tax-payers' money being used for the cruel and inhumane policy of live exports.
mr president, i very much welcome this report on the transportation of radioactive material within the european union. as you are all aware, this is a matter of deep concern to the irish people, who are particularly upset that there will be increased shipments of nuclear material through the irish sea in the near future. the german government has already stated that it is ready to restart the shipments of spent nuclear fuel to cumbria, and the dutch government has overseen the transportation of two shipments of nuclear spent material to sellafield in recent times. the dutch government intends to carry out 17 more shipments in the coming years. fighting british nuclear fuels and the british nuclear industry is never an easy task – i have been doing it for many years. that is why i am particularly pleased that the greater london assembly set up a committee last week to investigate safety concerns on the transportation of radioactive waste by rail through london. trains loaded with spent nuclear fuel from three nuclear plants in the south-east of england regularly cross london bound for the bnfl plant at sellafield. they pass through seven boroughs, including west hampstead, islington, hackney, hammersmith, fulham, wandsworth and bromley. cartloads of nuclear waste are regularly stored at marshalling yards in willesden. the setting up of this new radioactive trains investigative committee will hear evidence from british nuclear fuels and railtrack, as well as from representatives from local community groups on this very issue. it is anticipated that this committee will report back to the greater london assembly by the summer. the committee's foundation comes only a few days after a train carrying spent nuclear fuel flasks derailed as it arrived at the torness power plant in scotland. i am pleased that the members of the greater london assembly are now equally concerned by the shipment of radioactive nuclear materials in england and, in particular, to the bnfl sellafield plant in cumbria. i hope that politicians and local authorities in ireland can join forces with members of the greater london assembly and other groups in england to intensify the battle to see that bnfl close down the nuclear white elephant of the sellafield plant. a separate but related matter is that it is high time for a full environmental impact assessment to be carried out on the likely environmental damage that could arise from nuclear shipments across the irish sea. once again, i call on the european commissioner for the environment, mrs wallström, to invoke powers under the euratom treaty to force an independent evaluation of the environmental risks to be carried out for the shipment of nuclear materials in the irish sea. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr hatzidakis, on his report.
mr president, i also welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to the debate on the common organisation of the market in sugar. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr daul, on his work, which i have no difficulty in supporting on behalf of my group. the common organisation of the market in sugar has already undergone several reforms, including an agreement to reduce quotas by 500 000 tonnes for the 2000-2001 marketing year. in addition, institutional prices for sugar have declined continuously since 1985 by 36% in real terms. the present system has brought stability to the sector and enabled the community to be a modest but regular exporter to world markets. it is important for parliament to put down a marker with regard to the commission's efforts to draw back prematurely from decisions taken in berlin, which, in the case of the sugar regime, were to remain in place until 2006. this will only undermine farmers' confidence in the ability of europe and its institutions to bring stability to a sector already bedevilled recently by falling income and unstable markets. there is a danger that the current unprecedented crises in the livestock sector – mainly bse and foot-and-mouth – might be used to introduce far-reaching reforms to the common agricultural policy which would not otherwise have been contemplated. instead we should direct our energy and resources to bringing stability to the sector, restoring consumer confidence in food and investing in promotion and market development. central to any future reform must be income stability for farmers. fewer and fewer people are attracted to farming as a way of life, particularly when more rewarding work is available elsewhere.
mr president, the world is full of conflict and dictatorship, hardship and poverty and it is the innocent victims who pay the price. organised crime gangs with vast resources at their disposal are operating with impunity. we need more international cooperation between law enforcement agencies. it is no secret that in some countries politicians and the police are profiting from people-trafficking and tipping traffickers off when operations are about to be mounted against them. many of the issues being debated this morning, such as immigration, temporary protection for displaced persons and the level of harmonised penalties to be imposed on carriers transporting people without the necessary documents, are bound up with this dark world of conflict and criminal opportunism. in the last ten years there has been an unprecedented rise in forced and voluntary migration worldwide. the conflicts in the former yugoslavia and kosovo and elsewhere led to sudden large population movements and the need for temporary protection. at the same time, asylum issues are growing in importance. last year 390 000 people applied for asylum in the european union. the united nations estimates that the modern slave trade is now worth gbp 5 billion and 10% of illegal entrants to europe come via the balkan route. according to the unhcr my own country, ireland, came third in europe after slovenia and belgium in the number of asylum seekers it received last year, compared to the size of the total population. asylum seekers in europe were mainly from the federal republic of yugoslavia, iraq and afghanistan. the number of applications from iranians more than doubled. these people do not get the welcome in ireland that one would expect, especially considering our own history of migration. it must reluctantly be said that the irish have been less than generous in their acceptance of the population movements affecting them. it is a new phenomenon to us, but it saddens me to see people that i believed to be decent and compassionate acting in a racist and xenophobic way – and that includes many of the people in my own constituency. i say that with deep regret.
mr president, the italians have an expression which i have always loved tutto il mondo e i paesi and today we are talking about a variety of legislation relating to what is clearly one of the most passionately debated and in many cases inadequately legislated for issue in our community. the tragedy of people cut up in civil wars, which is the main focus obviously of mr ­­­wiebenga's report, is only one of the issues we are facing. many colleagues today have spoken on the basis of experience in their own countries of how these issues are handled. for far too long the commission or the council, holding its meetings in secret and expressing solidarity very often between themselves about these issues, have covered up what we really need to know about future policy on immigration, asylum, refugees, etc., within the community. coming as i do from a small country on the periphery where very often the difficulties of getting there have prevented us from being a focal point for those seeking asylum or refugee status, i sometimes feel uncomfortable when having to debate these issues with colleagues who have much greater experience and whose countries are called upon very often to share a huge amount of the responsibility for people tragically displaced by civil war, as has recently happened. of course we share our responsibility. we have to. it is our duty as one human being to another, but what we must absolutely insist on in all our immigration policies, not just in the context of mass displacements of people in the event of civil war, is that we must have a much better thought-out, much more humane and generous, and, above all, merciful policy towards those who come to us for help in these tragic situations.
mr president, i should like to join my colleagues in congratulating the rapporteur on her work on this report and in endorsing the majority of the proposals within it. within the european union a new institutional framework to fight against organised crime has been put in place following the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam. it provides for the development of common actions in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters while preserving member state responsibility for maintaining law and order and safeguarding internal securities. parallel to this endorsement, the european council launched two action plans for combating organised crime, aimed at overcoming disparities with national procedures in establishing more efficient judicial cooperation. most of these recommendations have been fully implemented. the enhanced role of europol certainly represents a major step forward in this context. the conclusions of the tampere council meeting present a strong political message, reaffirming the union's wish to overcome difficulties in prosecuting all forms of cross-border crime while protecting the freedoms and legal rights of individuals and economic operators. it is important that all eu institutions work together to ensure a coherent strategy against organised crime. the primary motive of much organised crime is financial crime. the eu policy in the fight against financial fraud is pursued simultaneously under the first and third pillars of the treaties. i support the extension of the mandate of europol to investigate money laundering matters. there must be a european-wide political agreement concerning the framework decision on the identification, seizure and confiscation of products of crime. certainly from an irish perspective, the establishment of the criminal assets bureau in 1996 has proved to be very successful in tackling this area of crime. establishing safety and confidence when we are faced with cyber-crime is another area which calls for a collective response on a global scale, given the world-wide dimension of the internet. computer-related crimes do not stop at conventional state borders. it is clear that activities that are unlawful off-line will not cease to be unlawful by going on-line. a considerable number of actions to fight cyber-crime are already under way in international fora. the council of europe is putting the finishing touches to the world's first international convention on cyber-crime. the european commission has also presented a legislative proposal on child pornography on the internet, in line with the provisions of the council's european cyber-crime convention. i support the framework programme being brought forward by the european commission to combat the traffic in human beings by developing effective cooperation across the european union in judicial procedures in this regard, and also by establishing closer links with the accession countries.
in writing. - a short time ago a train carrying nuclear fuel rods, owned by bnfl, derailed near the torness nuclear power station near dunbar, east lothian, uk. this very alarming incident is a reminder that the risks associated with the transport of nuclear material are constant. radioactivity is a serious threat to health and the environment. ionizing radiation causes energy transfers of a level that can cause mutations in the material it penetrates, or even cause irreversible damage to human cells. the danger is proportional to the duration of exposure and depends on the intensity and type of radiation. doses of 10 000 msv (millisieverts) or more cause almost instantaneous death (such high doses have only been reached following explosions or serious nuclear accidents in nuclear power stations). the effects of radiation can also be felt later in life, in the form of cancer or damage to the genetic heritage. this was especially true after the atomic bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki. anyone exposed to radiation levels of 200 msv or more is at increased risk of cancer. this means that inhaling a few micrograms of plutonium can cause lung or tongue cancer. similarly, the dispersion of 1 200 g of plutonium powder would release lethal doses of radioactivity by inhalation over a radius of 2 km. the risks of nuclear proliferation are higher during transport than at any other stage of the fuel cycle. the convoys are not immune to a terrorist attack aimed at stealing the packages containing highly radioactive substances. a few kilograms of recovered plutonium can be used to make a rudimentary nuclear explosive device.
in writing. - i am against nuclear reprocessing, and i believe that all reprocessing plants in the uk and around the world should be closed. i voted in favour of this report, even though i am not satisfied with some aspects. i believe in particular that safety must take precedence over all other considerations. the transport of nuclear waste must never pass through densely populated areas. the principle of the shortest journey must be subordinate to the principle of the safest journey. the irish, like all other europeans, live in constant fear of an accident in france or the uk or of a collision in the irish sea, which could have immediate and disastrous consequences for us all.
madam president, commissioner, from an irish point of view i welcome the compensation clause and the solidarity fund because irish football clubs are the cradle for many young footballers who go on to play in the english premiership and beyond. i would like to ask the commissioner a couple of questions about that. first of all, i assume the solidarity fund is a general fund. is there any chance that a portion of the transfer fee for under-23s might go directly to the amateur club which nurtured their skills? you also need to look at the footballing academies in england to which young footballers are taken from ireland at a very young age. will there be some compensation for them? the scandalous exploitation of young african footballers is a problem which i would ask you to look at again, because it does not seem to me to be addressed by the ban on inter-club transfers. agents will still find a way of getting round that. i recognise that this was a difficult compromise which does address the problem – the potentially disastrous consequences of absolute freedom of movement – while at the same time recognising the need to respect the new law.
mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this report. the regulation with which we are dealing applies solely to civil and commercial matters where a court in one member state can request evidence on the performance of judicial acts from another competent court in another member state of the european union. the regulation provides for the establishment of central authorities which are not responsible for the actual transmission of documents but which will respond to requests for supplying information from requested agencies. we must recall that the treaties of the european union incorporated judicial cooperation in civil matters in 1993. this is certainly a matter of common interest for member states and it does indeed complement the workings of the internal market. the establishment of an area of freedom, justice and security confers on members of the judiciary an essential role to play in the effective workings of the union. this matter may be highlighted to an even greater extent with the advent and introduction of the single currency next year. while i certainly support judicial cooperation within the eu, i do not support the establishment of a european public prosecutor. i do not support the establishment of such a body because i believe that the rights of our citizens should be fully protected. in britain and in ireland we have a different legal system – the old common law system – to that which pertains in the majority of other member states. the problem for a european public prosecutor is simply what is the legal basis for such a prosecution. do you apply the rule that a person is innocent until proven guilty – which exists in the common law system – or do you apply another legal basis which exists in other member states of the union? i do not believe that this square can be circled. judicial cooperation is important because it complements the workings of the internal market and the single currency, as already stated. europol is effective and europol must be supported in ensuring that crimes such as trafficking in human beings, cyber-crime and so on can be dealt with within the european territories. however, i believe that the establishment of the public prosecutor's office is a step too far. it is unworkable and it would be an unwelcome move which would not command support among the citizens of the european union. however, i support the regulation which is before us today. i believe the implementation of this regulation concerning the service of judicial and extra-judicial documents in civil and commercial matters will certainly improve and accelerate cross-border proceedings.
mr president, it is good that we have so many environmental reports here today. indeed, what i have to say on the korhola report is linked to the oomen-ruijten and the myller report and it is very timely indeed that this debate is taking place, especially when we are marking the tenth anniversary of the earth summit which was held in rio in 1992. i use the words 'marking' very carefully because i do not think we can celebrate the tenth anniversary of the first earth summit. the fact that the united states and the european union could not recently come to an agreement on the permitted level of future gas emissions is certainly an unwelcome development. i hope that the us and the european union can strike a proper agreement that will ensure a sustained reduction in the level of greenhouse gases. the fact of the matter is that the greater the reduction of greenhouse gases, the greater the effect it has on climatic change which in turn will have a devastating effect on coastal communities and island communities, not only in europe but world-wide. i am fully aware of the preparation of the european union for the world summit on sustainable development which is being held in south africa in the year 2002 and i support the four lines of action which have been drawn up by the european commission in preparation for this world summit. the european union will seek to protect natural resources that lie at the root of the economic development, to strive for the promotion of eco-efficiency, promote sustainable use of water, land and energy as well as try to ensure that the vicious cycle of poverty and environmental degradation is broken and this is best achieved under the framework of the united nations. ten years after rio, expectations have not been met. the pressures on the environment have worsened and poverty continues to win ground in the world. we ought to redouble all our efforts so as to be sure that next year's world summit is up to the challenge of ensuring that development takes place in a sustained manner and also in a manner which protects existing communities. the community fifth environmental action programme protects people from the adverse effects of air pollution. since it is clear that the long-term goal set out by the fifth environmental action programme would not be attained easily, the commission has rightly decided on a step-by-step approach setting out its so-called interim environmental targets for the year 2010. the environmental committee will continue to play an important coordinating role in this regard and i would congratulate the rapporteur on the report.
mr president, the overall aim in amending directive 90/313/eec on access to information on the environment is to enable the community and member states to comply with certain provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation and decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters. in ireland, we have already incorporated the general provisions including, of course, the original directive 90/313/eec, in our national regulations and our freedom of information legislation. i should like to raise a few points with which we might have difficulty. in general i agree with the provisions of amendment no 15, relating to article 2(2) and the definition of 'public authority'. i have no substantive problems with that amendment, but i am concerned that some parties might attempt to revert to the original proposal from the commission on 2(2)(c), which refers to "the operation of services of general economic interest which affect or are likely to affect …". if this were to be agreed – if, in other words, we revert to the original commission position – it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to transpose into national regulations. it would probably result in bodies which are not public authorities being brought in to have a level playing field, competitively speaking. in ireland, for example, telecom éireann, which is now eircom, would be included as a former public authority. we would then have to bring in private-sector telecoms and other telecom operations. this does not fit in with the interpretation of aarhus, so it could present problems. the time limit proposed in amendment no 16 on article 3(2)(a) is unreasonable. as this directive applies to all documents in the environment area, in many cases the files might be in storage off-site and perhaps not computerised. the commission proposal to deliver "as soon as possible or, at the latest, within one month" is reasonable. it is a 50% reduction on the current position and is in line with existing irish freedom of information provisions. finally, i have problems with amendment no 24. there must be discretion on the provision for charges, subject, of course, to publication and including time for searches, particularly when there are repeated requests for information. i would urge that we go down that road, leaving discretion on the publication of charges.
would the commissioner be in a position to say whether there is universal support for the ratification of the 1996 hague convention? just in case there is any confusion, this is not the hague convention on parental child abduction – that dates from 1981. i am talking about the next one. i understand that there may be some problems concerning ratification by some member states. if there are, could you tell us (a) what the problems are, and (b) which member states are concerned?
as the commissioner is under pressure of time, i will forego my right to ask a supplementary. i appreciate the commissioner giving me a very full and detailed response today on this and other questions. i just want to thank her for that.
mr president, ireland does not in general have a problem with stricter elvs for new plants, as these can simply be incorporated into ipc licensing and will help achieve national emission ceilings. however, we must question further tightening beyond the common position and whether it will bring any significant additional environmental benefits. the common position was developed in tandem with the proposed nec directive and represents a coherent and balanced approach to achieving environmental objectives over time. the proposed amendments are not justified in terms of environmental benefits and associated costs and other impacts and would disturb the balance achieved. further tightening would increase costs and reduce member state flexibility in meeting agreed national targets and accelerate increased dependence on natural gas with attendant fuel security concerns for electricity generation, particularly in countries like ireland. additional restrictions on existing lcp are not justified in the context of member state commitments under the nec directive to reduce overall emissions and the impending application of the ippc directive. some amendments will even have a perverse effect. for example, stringent and uneconomic elvs for small plants will hinder combined heat and power development and others do not support an integrated approach to the environment. proposals to tighten elvs are not proportionate regarding costs and benefits and fail to recognise that the common position is a balance between improving environmental performance and avoiding excessive costs and other impacts. no cost-benefit analysis is provided for the further reduction of emissions from plants with already low emission concentrations. one amendment i have difficulty with is the proposal to reduce nox emission limits from 650 to 200. it is technically feasible but will require the installation of costly end-of-pipe controls. this will require more energy input and result in increased co2 emissions, the use of more raw materials and the production of hazardous waste. the council's proposed elvs could be met by primary means at a much lower cost. as noted previously, these additional costs will ultimately be borne in high electricity prices. however, it is not at all clear that the benefits in additional nox emission reductions outweigh the associated environmental and economic costs, i.e. this is not consistent with an integrated approach to the environment as a whole.
madam president, as you know i am a very enthusiastic anti-smoker. however, i would just like to remind colleagues that they can smoke in comfort and away from everybody else in the designated area over there to the right at the window.
madam president, mr president of the commission, on behalf of my group i welcome the tone of the council's contribution and the content of the commission's contribution. it is early days yet for us to have a definitive idea of how this process will develop, but i do believe that you, madam president, have been excessively cautious and i would like to raise one or two questions with you and invite you to respond to them at the end of the debate. you have said that you look forward to seeing the european parliament contribution and, of course, the resolution in may. i join you in that. you have said that you can see advantages and disadvantages in the convention method and i am aware that many in the council would share that view. could you please expand on that and not leave it in suspended animation? part of the purpose of this dialogue is for us to seek rational solutions if people perceive disadvantages in what we propose. so please could you let us have your assessment of the pros and cons to which you have referred. you have referred to the four dimensions in the nice annex, the debate on competencies, the charter of fundamental rights and the role of national parliaments. you also, if i understood the translation correctly, believe that the treaty should be simplified but without changing its content. is it possible to look at competencies, the role of national parliaments and the role of the charter and not change the content of the treaty? that seems to me to be a contradiction in terms. like the other institutions, the european parliament is currently considering how things might be presented for the next intergovernmental conference. i and my group strongly believe that the convention method could be adopted. this parliament has a democratic legitimacy. it is rooted and founded in the european treaties. we are not a mendicant seeking alms at the european door. we have a right – in fact a duty – of participation. i believe the convention method open to the member states, national parliaments, the commission and perhaps ideally also to candidate states can provide a very good framework – not necessarily a single-choice menu, but a framework of rational and consistent choices – and an intergovernmental conference can then be invited to proceed. finally, without anticipating the future too much, my own group feels sufficiently strongly about this participation that if parliament was inappropriately excluded or diminished in its institutional role we would consider recommending that it should not give any opinion on an intergovernmental conference. that would be a difficult decision and i hope it will not be necessary but it is a constitutional requirement under article 48 that this house should give an opinion before an igc even though, regrettably, we have no right of assent after an igc. that is something we should note at this stage because full democratic participation is vital. (applause)
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking you for a good debate with many constructive comments. i think i have noticed that poettering, barón crespo, cox and others who took part in the debate are nonetheless willing to have a broad political debate on both the substance and the form, and i think that is good. i would like to comment on some of the contributions, starting with the first speaker, mr poettering. i repeat: transparency is a key issue for the swedish presidency. i know that parliament and the swedish presidency have a lot in common, and i hope that we can be helped to achieve as much openness and transparency as is possible. of course, we also need to involve the member states and agree on this. then there is the big question of the next igc. as regards the decision itself, the treaty provides for no other method than the intergovernmental conference. it is important that we remember this, as mr berès said at the end. i understand that parliament is very interested, and i am too, in the important debate on how we arrive at a decision - what debate we have before a decision, how we prepare it and what role a convention can play. this was the subject of the opening talks. the debate here shows that we need to have a broad debate on this, but i think it is too early to take a definitive position today because there are both advantages and disadvantages. the benefits are obvious open debate and broad participation but there are questions there too. who should be involved member states, candidate countries and organisations, and if so, who? so we cannot take a final position on that today. some also point out the disadvantages. with so many people involved, it can get messy. in addition, the decision-making process itself may be unclear, since the convention makes proposals and the intergovernmental conference has to take decisions. so even if one is in favour of a convention, one must also discuss the management of the disadvantages of a convention. so let us discuss this thoroughly! the council has not said yes, but neither has it said no, and we have certainly not said that we are afraid of a convention. we have said that we must now be able to discuss both the substance of the future of europe and the methods - including the question of a convention. the european parliament is, of course, involved in this whole debate, as mr brok said. you have been instrumental in initiating the debate on the future. you were present at the launch and you are also present at the website. i do not know exactly where mrs elles has looked, but i can guarantee that parliament is there. furthermore, there are a lot of posts, so it must be a mistake if this wasn't included today. this debate is another example of parliament's involvement, but we also want to see parliament's overall view of the future debate and we will have that in may. i therefore think it is important that it should also be included as part of the continuing discussion. let me then comment on a few other questions. mr cox asked why i said that the treaties should be simplified without changing their meaning. i can answer that i quoted the nice decision. i would like to say to baron crespo that it is obvious that we are going to get out into the real world. i have been to many swedish schools and taken part in the debate. i suppose the rest of you have been to schools, too. i think it is important that parliament should also be involved in the debate. what the students and the public will be asking us about, of course, is about issues that go much, much further than the issues that we've discussed here today. i would also like to say to baron crespo that, of course, parliament was invited from the outset to participate in the launching of the future of europe. i would like to say to mr frassoni that, unfortunately, there must have been some problems with the translation of the question of civil society. the swedish presidency has shown a very strong interest in civil society. in my opening speech i gave examples of large conferences which we organise in sweden and in other countries. in the run-up to the gothenburg summit, we are organising three different broad civil society forums. we also have a very wide network of local partners. we also have a large commitment to many schools and universities. personally, i have several school classes as reference groups, which i can recommend. member bonde took up the website and said that only prime minister persson and other dignitaries are allowed to write there. i recommend that he go in and look at it, because there are already many posts there. in my opening remarks i quoted inter alia contributions from denmark and the united kingdom contributions from ordinary citizens in both countries. this is, of course, an important debate for the future. i expect that we will return to the discussion of the methods and the convention and how best to broaden the debate. but it is also important that we have a broad debate on the issues at hand, that is, how europe can really face globalisation and how europe can become a strong force in employment, environmental issues and the discussions that we will have here later today. so let us discuss both the methods and the facts of the future of europe.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, but it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, and i am therefore very pleased to see that the committee on budgets has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. mrs lindh has just said something about the site issue which has been raised by several of you - james elles and mrs malmström. this site is in the middle of a roll-out, so let's be understanding. it was opened just a week ago. i think all of your comments are useful for it to be a real citizen site. our idea is to run this site between several institutions, including the european parliament, but i agree that it should be developed and perhaps also that its role should be understood, because it should serve as a platform for the national debates that will soon be organised in each of the member states. that is my first answer, but this site needs to be improved and the commission will contribute to it. mr seguro asked the president of the commission and the commissioner a question. yes, mr seguro, we will continue - as is the role of the president and as he does with regard to the debate on the future, but also on many other subjects - to meet the governments in each of the capitals, not only of the member states, but as mr prodi has done, as we all do, also in the capitals of the candidate countries. i would add that we will also continue to meet with national parliaments, which may not have been the commission's practice until now. i myself, in the course of the debates before nice, took the initiative of going to meet the national parliaments, and i do not regret it. mr leinen, like mr dupuis, referred to the concern we have expressed, through the voice of our president, about 2004, which will be an extremely busy year. this is the year in which we will present the new agenda, after berlin; this is the year in which many accession negotiations will be concluded, if they have not already been concluded. it is the year of the renewal of the european parliament and it is the last year of our commission. so the sooner we can go to rome, at the beginning of 2004 and perhaps, mr leinen, why not at the end of 2003, the better it will be for everyone, for us and for you, and therefore necessarily for the european debate itself. but that answer is also in the hands of the heads of state and government. i therefore thank each and every one of them, especially the group chairmen who have expressed their wishes and their agreement with the ideas or the guidelines of the commission. we shall continue to work together, and you will allow me to say a very last personal word of thanks to mr desama at the moving moment when he is leaving this house to take up more local responsibilities in verviers. i am sure that the profession of european faith he has made will not be forgotten in his duties as mayor from the coming weeks. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, on a point of order i should like to put on record a matter i raised at the conference of presidents. it relates to the name of the website www.europa.eu.int/futurum. could we find a more user-friendly name, such as hello.com, so that people could access it quickly? (laughter)
mr president, the forthcoming stockholm summit will address many of the european union's key social and employment problems. this is very timely, when new information technologies are ensuring that small, medium and large enterprises within the union will now have to change their administrative structures. i support the agenda set by the eu leaders at their summit in lisbon last year. the union must continue to implement uniform and rights-led programmes of education relating to new information technologies, so that all citizens of the union can be properly integrated into the workplace. this presents us with two challenges. first, those who are unskilled and lack the necessary training or educational qualifications must be given new opportunities. i am referring in particular to the young and long-term unemployed still concentrated in certain urban and rural areas of the european union. the european union social fund is a key financial mechanism which has been used very effectively, particularly in objective 1 regions, to provide new training opportunities for the unskilled. secondly, it is equally important that the existing workforce is retrained in the skills demanded by new and changing information technologies. benefits can accrue for business from the use of the internet and the related e-commerce opportunities. certainly the commission, parliament and member states' governments have all worked closely together to ensure that the stockholm summit will be a success. i recall that the nice council before christmas set out a number of guidelines for new social policy measures. eu leaders want to promote more and better jobs and worker mobility, anticipate and manage change in the working environment, combat poverty, exclusion and discrimination, modernise social protection systems and promote equality. they also want to focus on the external implications of employment and social policies, particularly in relation to the enlargement process. parliament has been at the forefront of promoting these measures. the union has an unemployment rate of 8% and the target of full employment is attainable. those who say that it is not must not be listened to.
in writing. - almost ten years after rio, we are still far from our goals. the environment is under enormous pressure. poverty is increasing everywhere in the world. it is essential that next year's world summit succeeds in strengthening measures that ensure that development is undertaken in a sustainable way and that existing communities are protected. the fifth environmental action programme offers protection against the harmful effects of air pollution. its long-term objective will not be easily achieved; the commission has therefore rightly decided on a phased approach setting intermediate environmental objectives for the year 2010. i am glad that the report has been amended to include energy and nuclear fuels, as well as financial and economic analyses. it is essential that we also cover information on nuclear fuels and in particular subsidies for nuclear fuels and energy. local authorities must also provide information when requested. recently i have been faced with protests from voters in the constituency of kilkenny, ireland, who complained about the difficulties they are having in obtaining information on the progress of work at archer. i then asked the local authority and the regional commissioner for information myself, but without success so far. if european funds have been misused to divert a road, and if improvements are being made along the old road, that would be absolutely outrageous and we should be given an explanation.
in writing. - i support the bösch report in general. it is our responsibility to ensure that we are able to strengthen the fight against fraud and protect the interests of all taxpayers in europe. the only points on which i disagree with the rapporteur are paragraphs 7 and 10, which call for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. i have always opposed the creation of such a body, which has already been considered, not only in this context but also with regard to the question of crossborder criminal proceedings. i believe that there is no legal basis for this ministry, that there is no guarantee of the presumption of innocence given the different legal systems of the member states and that prosecutions would probably be neither faster nor more effective than under the current system. nevertheless, and despite these concerns, i voted in favour of the report and i congratulate the rapporteur.
mr president, in the short time allocated to me i am not going to go back over some of the points already raised. however conflict resolution and prevention of conflict do require investment. investment not just in terms of theories and studies and knowledge of history but also financial investment to try and ensure that the causes of conflict are recognised. some of the causes relating to ethnic and religious origin and so on have already been mentioned. but there are also economic causes. the most successful area of conflict prevention with which the european union has been involved in recent years was in the city of mostar. even though it did not succeed in the end the kind of investment we started to put into mostar was very successful. as we look forward now to a new range of conflicts and regional uncertainties, we have to make sure that we have the capacity to respond. ireland would be proud to play its part in a european rapid reaction force with a humanitarian and peace-keeping role, but that and nato must not be the only option. the resolution and prevention of conflict requires dialogue and opposing parties have to be brought together. you must make peace with your enemy, not with your friend. there is a saying that opportunity comes to pass, not to pause. too often we miss the opportunity to intervene and prevent conflict. my final point is that, in our discussions, we must be mindful of the effects of conflict on children and young people. according to unicef reports, over two million children have been killed in the conflicts in the last decade. there are 300 000 child soldiers around the world and millions and millions of orphans. more must be done to protect children.
mr president, i will just take as read my group's support for the lamfalussy report and for the reasoning in it. i want to come to the nub of the issue here before us. i am not reassured by the assurances of the council and the commission that we in parliament are fully looked after in this process. of course, we must respect the treaties. of course, we must understand the difference between primary law and secondary legislation as referred to in lamfalussy. and of course, we have as a potential point of departure the june 1999 interinstitutional agreement on comitology. we stand at a special moment where we can seize an opportunity as institutions together to creatively pursue something that we have failed miserably to do so far. there is a long list of blockages noted by lamfalussy and they are primarily the blockages of the council of ministers. there is a long list of failures to implement and they are primarily a responsibility for the commission as guardian of the treaty to enforce. there is no point in going back to the past when we can seize this moment to create a much better future without delay in terms of a single financial market. yes, we have rights in the primary legislation. we have the right, as has been said, to define the scope of the legislation and of the derogated powers to the regulators and securities committees. but there is a feedback system in this. will we give them a millimetre or a metre? a metre or a kilometre? i will tell you – we will dole it out in accordance with our view of its democratic scrutiny, its balance, its parallelism between the legislative institutions and its accountability. if you want speed and substance, if you want, commissioner and council, the flexibility to give tomorrow's solutions to tomorrow's problems, and not to yesterday's problems, then we need to give these committees a wide latitude but be able to call back, if necessary, on reflection. no callback – no wide latitude. we have a big choice to make. what are we pursuing here? it is not simply a closed loop. in the primary round we get to decide how wide is the secondary discretion and how wide it will be. it will partly depend on how open and democratic is it and how balanced it is in terms of the two legislative arms of this union. let me turn to the bit of the debate that has not mentioned its name. even as the council sits here and – if i might say even with due deference to all the politeness of the minister – throws the book at us and says, "there is a treaty; there is a procedure. we will inform you, we will send you the minutes, but otherwise please go away," i do not accept that message. i want to know from the council as you give us that message why do you or at least some member states go through the back door and use annexes, attached for other reasons on sensitive issues, to the june 1999 decision and make up new comitology rules for yourselves to jump from qualified majority de facto to simply majority as leverage on the european commission. this is not acceptable. there should be not two rules but one rule, one democracy, one openness. (applause)
mr president, it is worth putting on record that the only positive aspect of this terrible disease is that is does not affect humans. there is no consumer risk. when the crisis is over – and it is a crisis in the uk, there is no other way to describe it – we will have to review the common agricultural policy and the whole single market to assess calmly whether we have, as an economic community, sacrificed our animal health status at the high altar of trade liberalisation. foot-and-mouth disease was never just a uk issue and the outbreak in france tragically underlines this, if we needed reminding. while the spread of this virulent disease has raised legitimate questions about how the uk authorities are handling it, i would like to dissociate myself and my colleagues from the intemperate and highly inappropriate comments made by certain junior ministers in the irish government. notwithstanding bans on imports of animals and animal products and limited transport bans, commissioner, i must say that the reaction of the eu collectively appears to be inadequate and slow. are you satisfied with the veterinary capability to handle this crisis, particularly in the united kingdom? are you satisfied that the standing veterinary council is up to the job? i am not questioning their individual capabilities, but do their brief and terms of reference now appear adequate in the face of rampant foot-and-mouth disease? could the commissioner explain to the house why there is such a difference in the veterinary responses of the uk and ireland? certainly each member state is responsible in the first instance for its own animal health, but it is clear to me and my colleagues from other member states that there is no coordinated or consistent veterinary response. in the uk racing, football matches, conferences continue, despite the fact that there have been well over 200 outbreaks and i have heard of another 28 today. in the republic of ireland, where we have no outbreak, all non-essential gatherings in rural areas have been stopped. we have brought the irish community to a standstill. there is no coordinated logistical policy on movements of animals and most importantly movements of people to and from infected areas and countries through ports and airports. standards and requirements differ drastically and we urgently need an eu approach to that. the eu reaction has been inadequate and slow. the disease is out of control in britain and has now spread to continental europe. i am amazed that there has been no emergency meeting of the council of agriculture ministers to date and no coordinated response from any of our executive authorities. i have just listened to the uk national farmers' union address the meeting of our agriculture and rural development committee and i thank them for attending. they have explained the situation in england. i do not support vaccination, tragic as the problem is, since foot-and-mouth disease is not endemic in the eu. vaccination is not a 100% guarantee and there are many different strains, each requiring a different vaccination. commissioner, it is your job to convince member states that all airports, seaports and other entry and exit points in infected areas must be controlled and passengers and vehicles must go through a proper disinfectant routine. it is time we got our act together and lessons should be learned from the bse crisis. we need more details from argentina. despite denials of an outbreak of the last few weeks they have now confirmed that there is one. i do not think we have all the facts yet, from there or from other countries. (applause)
mr president, if uncontrolled, foot-and-mouth disease has the potential to wipe out eu livestock production, culminating in major job losses in the agri-food sector and seriously disrupting normal life. as the house is aware, the first outbreak of foot-and-mouth was confirmed in great britain just a few weeks ago. since then it has spread at a frightening rate, resulting in the destruction of thousands of animals. the financial implications are considerable. the psychological impact on farmers, not just in great britain but also in ireland, is a matter of great concern. let us not underestimate the social consequences of this catastrophe. we all know that foot-and-mouth is a difficult disease to control, but its implications for european agriculture and the broader european economy require that the most stringent controls be put in place and enforced. i acknowledge that for the british government the situation is difficult. however, there is nothing to be gained at this stage by apportioning blame. i certainly sympathise with the plight of british farmers. i believe the scale of the disaster and the rapidity with which it has spread demand not just stronger action by the british authorities but also continuing eu intervention. i compliment commissioner byrne on his measured and positive response to the crisis. the threat that foot-and-mouth represents to the community as a whole is a matter that cannot be left to the control measures in individual member states. i call on the commission to appoint a special task force to oversee the implementation and the enforcement of regulations in the countries concerned. the work and guidance of the standing veterinary committee is, of course, important in this regard. the house will understand if i highlight the seriousness of the situation for ireland, where very strict controls already are in place. i should like to acknowledge the understanding of the public and the level of cooperation between the authorities north and south of the border. it is ironic that it has taken this dreaded disease to bring home to our people not just the implications for farmers but also the consequences for employment in the food industry, the impact on food exports and the economic threat to tourism and other commercial activities. (applause)
mr president, i want to thank the council and commission for coming in response to parliament's decision on monday to have this debate. the food industry in ireland and now in europe as a whole is reeling under the impact of the foot-and-mouth catastrophe, but it is wrong to demonise any one country for this outbreak. it is particularly silly for a minister of a state which exports 90% of its produce to do so. it could have happened in any one of our countries, given the intensive subsidy-driven nature of european farming, which involves the constant movement of livestock from farm to farm and indeed from country to country. i am not convinced that partial or reasonable bans on the movement of livestock are an adequate response at this stage in the development of the outbreak. in practice i would have to say that no country is likely to import animals from any country where the disease has been identified – and indeed who would blame them? it has also been repeated that this is not a human health crisis. also, the farming sector is not the only victim of this crisis. food industry workers, the tourism industry, sporting events and everyday social life are all victims of the efforts to stop the spread of the disease. while that has been acceptable up to now, we must not dismiss out of hand a review which balances the costs involved in continuing with the current approach and its impact on other key industries and on the freedom of citizens to get on with their lives. finally, when the anger and recriminations have died down, we must get to grips with a reform of the common agricultural policy. european consumers are now more interested in safe food, food that is produced in an environmentally friendly way, and indeed food at affordable prices. but they are no longer interested in dirt-cheap food, regardless of how it is produced or with hidden unacceptable health risks.
mr president, commissioner, i was honoured to be asked by commissioner patten to lead the eu electoral observation mission to sri lanka. it was a challenging task and i would like to pay tribute to all the members of the team which i was privileged to lead and work with. i would also like to acknowledge the great cooperation and support i received from the head of the eu mission, mr ilkka uusitalo, all the heads of the eu diplomatic mission as well as the government and opposition parties in sri lanka and particularly the elections commissioner. based upon my experiences there, i would like to make a few points in the context of the fava report and the commission communication, both of which i warmly welcome. the credibility of an eu observation mission's final report will depend to a significant degree on the perceived and actual independence of its work. it is absolutely imperative that neither the chief electoral observer nor any of the team pursues a political agenda in relation to the country they are observing. the mission must, at all times, act independently and be seen to do so. this means that the integrity of the team must never be compromised by actions which could be construed as having a bias towards any political party or grouping or ngo. furthermore, while it is important that the observation team should consult local eu diplomatic missions, it must be independent of them and eu missions must not interfere with fellow nationals or the mission as a whole. i was fortunate that this was my experience in sri lanka. it is also desirable that the composition of the eu team should not only draw upon youthful idealism and enthusiasm but should also have considerable depth and wealth of experience. one final point i would like to make is that the value of an electoral observation exercise is seriously diminished if there is no follow-up. if the final report of the observation mission concludes that there were serious flaws in the conduct of the election and makes recommendations as to how they can be prevented in the future, the council and the commission must act and both must be prepared to use sanctions in the fields of eu trade policy and donor aid to achieve this.
mr president, the rapporteur is aware that the green group has criticised this report as unbalanced and it indeed is unashamedly pro-biotech industry, doubtless because of the explicit involvement of glaxo wellcome – or whatever they are now called – in preparatory meetings. however, the report in no way affects the legislative programme, which is addressing such issues as traceability, labelling and liability. the report has not dealt with serious concerns such as ethics in biotechnology, public health, consumers' concerns regarding food, and indeed the effects on the environment. however, the most extraordinary thing in this report is the reference to the market and the creation and availability of new financial resources and the rationality of european stock markets. i thought mr purvis clearly understood that stock markets are beyond the control even of a powerful commissioner like mr liikanen and i urge him to ignore this extraordinary interventionist proposal.
in writing. - as a europe of values, we are committed to making ethics, accountability and transparency an integral part of all our work. in the area of food production, our citizens have asked us to guarantee them healthy food, with the necessary precautions to achieve this objective and adequate responsibility and sanctions to deal with any violation that harms human health or the environment. we are now faced with the tragic and devastating results of bse and amr, and there is a consensus within the eu that we need to re-examine the very foundation of the agricultural sector. there is now a unanimous call for a review of the cap, and our institutions are promoting and supporting organic food production. in the light of these considerations, i believe that the eu should embrace the biotechnology industry with extreme caution and take all precautions beforehand. the united states, a pioneer in the biotechnology industry, is itself facing the difficulties of the rapidly growing sector of genetically modified food production, in which private sector participation has led to market dominance by large corporations and the annihilation of small producers who cannot compete with 'industrial' farms. agricultural smes seem to have not been protected or supported in this world of genetically modified food production. i have to vote against the purvis report because of a number of points. i believe the promise of eliminating disease, increasing yields and cleaning up the environment is yet to be proven. i know that in the united states it has been shown that many genetically modified crops do not increase yields but, on the contrary, reduce them. large-scale genetic engineering of crops and food will certainly contribute to further intensifying agriculture, not to mention the health risks posed by genetically modified products; the european commission has banned the use of bst (genetically modified bovine somatotropin used to increase milk production in the united states) for health reasons. bst is not allowed in any country except the united states. there is a marked increase in allergies to soybeans, which are now genetically modified in 50% of cases. as regards the proposal to lift the moratorium on genetically modified crops, genetic transfer is now an established fact. what hope is there in my own country, ireland, of seeing non-genetically modified crops protected from such contamination? how are we going to be able to continue to produce organic food for crops like wheat and cereals? how can we determine whether future labelling and control proposals are adequate when we still do not know exactly - at this stage - what they will look like? as regards the cartagena protocol, it should be noted that our own european commission has tried to resist the clauses to introduce this protocol into directive 90/220. unfortunately, this report rejects organic food on the grounds that it is not able to provide enough food for europe at the moment and that it is not cost effective. the organic producers assure me that they do not agree with this statement. many other points, such as the almost unlimited patent system, force me to vote against this report. finally, as regards the ethical problems of genetic engineering, there is no doubt that the american model which we take as a reference has led to the collapse of the protection of human dignity: members of our human family are now being used as guinea pigs, and the cloning of children at the embryonic stage is imminent in our european community.
mr president, as the parliament's mediator for transnationally abducted children, i have been involved in the de brouwer-limet case for some time. first i wish to reassure other victim parents, some of whom have expressed concern that this resolution deals with a particular case, that their tragedies too are just as important to me. my primary concern today is to ensure that the channels of communication, which seem to be opening for the first time since the onset of the limet tragedy, are strengthened and that progress can be made to return the children to their home as soon as possible. this is the primary aim of this resolution. all too often in member states, the abduction of a child is treated by the police and other authorities simply as a domestic rather than a criminal matter. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the kenyan authorities, and in particular president moi, for any assistance they can provide to ensure a positive outcome. it is my firm belief that the children have the right to know both parents and this right was scrupulously respected until the failure to return the children to their father in belgium in august 1998. however, since then the children have been denied access to one parent, in this case their father. he has given undertakings that once the children are returned to his custody their mother will continue to have visiting rights as before, thus restoring the children's right to have a relationship with both parents. next week, i will be travelling to the hague conference, where the special commission will meet to review the practical operation of the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. we have a big task ahead of us, but i would like to take this opportunity to remind all the signatories of the hague convention that they signed up not just to protect their own nationals who may become victims of child abduction, but also to use the convention to assist those who are victims of child abduction by their own nationals. it is not a one-way process. for the convention to succeed, full cooperation by all the signatories is essential.
mr president, i should just like to point out that some of us are very environmentally friendly. we actually walk in. (laughter)
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and the work of the committee. it is a major improvement on what the commission has actually proposed. the proposal from the commission is not only fundamentally flawed but it is also extremely disappointing. the fact that they are abandoning the sales ban is an absolute disgrace, apart from the fact that it was supposed to come into effect in 1998. the commission did not actually deliver on what was promised in relation to the testing ban, as has already been pointed out by mr davies. it is a complete cop-out because the testing ban is just going to ensure that eu multinationals will carry out animal testing outside the eu but the products will still be for sale here. what we need is both a marketing sales ban and a testing ban and we must do that now. the argument about fear of a world trade organisation challenge is completely unfounded. there is no reason why animal protection cannot be a legitimate reason for adopting trade restrictive measures. even the wto itself recently confirmed to us that the us clearly agree because this is the basis which they use to ban the import and sale of dog and cat fur. the wto argument is just an excuse not to deliver on what was originally promised. in the report there are a number of very important improvements in relation to consumers and consumer information. ingredients in cosmetic products are now to be listed in full, including the ingredients of perfumes information which so far has not been available. it is great that the public will actually have access to this information because lame excuses were used in the past for refusing it. cosmetics containing any of 26 fragrances above a certain threshold are to be labelled with a warning which says ‘could cause an allergic reaction’. we would have liked to see a complete ban on these fragrances, but unfortunately we did not get support within the committee for that. that should have been the line to take: if they are dangerous then they should be banned, rather than saying ‘they may cause problems’. as regards the use of fragrances in baby products or products for intimate hygiene, we would have liked to have seen a complete outlawing of fragrances in baby products. this is completely unnecessary, it is also exposing babies and children who are extremely vulnerable to unnecessary risks. hazardous substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic should not be used in cosmetics at all under the current proposal unless they are evaluated by a scientific committee and found acceptable. this will actually encourage more animal testing. normally i do not take much notice of the lobbying information i get in this parliament, in particular from industry, but i was amazed at ‘cosmetics – your choice, our responsibility’ from the european cosmetics, toiletry and perfume association. as mr davies just pointed out, it is trying to flatter our vanity suggesting we really need to continue testing on animals so that we remain clean, so that we can actually correct body odours; in other words, that we can improve on nature and change our appearance. this is all ludicrous and it is completely unacceptable that animals are tortured for this sort of excuse. if you look through the information from the industry there is not one photograph of what animal testing really involves and the consumers should know about that as well.
mr president, pvc is the second most commonly used plastic. it poses significant environment and health problems over its entire life cycle. those problems always go back to the same two causes: pvc contains chlorine, and requires the addition of a wide variety of hazardous additives in large quantities if it is to be functional. the scientific studies commissioned by the commission highlighted a number of key hazards relating to pvc, in particular during disposal. landfilling is a ticking time-bomb due to the release of hazardous pvc additives and the potential for dioxin formation during landfill fires. incineration of pvc makes the problem even worse, as apart from the risk of dioxin formation the hazardous residues resulting from pvc incineration may even exceed the quantities of pvc put into incineration. recycling cannot solve the problem as potential recycling rates under ecological criteria are projected to reach only 5% by 2020. the problem is set to get worse, as waste quantities will increase significantly over the next decades. at a public hearing organised by the european commission last october there was a very strong and clear call for substitution of pvc. this call did not just come from environmentalists. it included a coalition of industry, waste-management, local and national authorities, environmental, health and consumer interests. there was very clear and strong support for the substitution of pvc. there is an obligation on the commission and the eu to respect the wishes of the vast majority of the public. it seems to me that there is a huge amount of support for substitution, while only the pvc industry is reluctant. whose interests come first? it has to be the interests of all those people that attended the commission hearing. the report on substitution calls for the introduction of substitution policies for certain product categories. we think this is a very good starting point, but it should not end there. we would like to see it extended to all categories, not just to some.
mr president, pvcs are plastics with a very wide range of industrial and commercial uses. the main applications are in the building sector (57% of total use), packaging, household appliances and cars. the industry comprises more than 21 000 firms providing 530 000 jobs, with a turnover in excess of eur 72 billion. according to the commission's green paper, no full assessment of the risks connected with the use of lead-based products – which include pvc stabilisers – has been completed. for this reason, contamination of the environment is possible during the production phase, and during the waste phase once pvc has been used. specific preventive and protective measures must therefore be taken so as to reduce workers' exposure to pvc. no data are available on the state of landfill waste containing large amounts of pvc. i am calling on the commission, under the auspices of the european directive, to carry out a broader study of the possible public health consequences of pvc products consigned to landfill dumps in europe. the next 20 years will probably see an increase of around 80% in the quantities of pvc waste because of the increase in the average lifespan of certain pvc products such as window frames. the commission must centralise the information concerning the effects of pvc in our society so that appropriate measures can be taken at national and european level to reduce any possible public health consequences from its use. the european pvc industry has signed a voluntary commitment concerning the sustainable development of pvc and this programme is to be implemented this year. while i support voluntary commitments in general, if they are not seen to be effective then the european union governments and institutions will have no option other than to legislate on this matter. the commission should ensure that no public health side effects arise from the uncontrolled recycling of pvc products. finally, it is important to support the use of alternatives to pvc products.
mr president, the community budget is the blood supply to a sustainable common agricultural policy. it is difficult to recall a more challenging time for agriculture and the future of european farmers. bse and foot-and-mouth have added a new and unexpected dimension to the european agenda. the psychological impact on farmers and rural communities is considerable. the consequences for farm income, and by implication the agricultural budget, are difficult at this time to comprehend. the continuity of farming as a sustainable career for new entrants has again been brought into focus. consumers remain confused and bewildered. there is still considerable misinformation on the safety of the food chain, and in particular meat products. hence the worrying decline in meat consumption. against this background i caution against any attempt to radically alter the administration and structure of the agricultural budget agreed in berlin. with both bse and foot-and-mouth farmers by and large are innocent victims of circumstances beyond their control. it would certainly be a serious mistake to allow the current crisis to panic us into introducing drastic budget changes which would militate against the sustainability of european family farming.
mr president, first of all i want to say that we very often discuss the budget as if it were an end in itself. we argue about amendments that the european public will not understand. we debate the difference between commitments and appropriations and all sorts of technical details that mean nothing to the european public. these things are necessary, but they should not be the picture that is presented to the people of europe. the people of europe want a budget that serves their interests and a budget that serves the political objectives of the european union. this is extremely important. the long-term objectives of the european union should be served as best we can by the budget. in sitting down to draw up our long-term plans we should recognise the interests of the union, its cohesiveness, its solidarity and its influence in the world. we are being misled at the moment on the whole question of the size of the budget. mr wynn says that the council says there is no more money: absolute rubbish! there was a time when we had a limit of 1.1%. i went around the cities of europe with mr colom i naval and others and we asked them to sanction expansion of the budget by the 1.27% – we needed at the time. we got it – and very responsibly we did not spend it. it is still there. we now have a crisis in agriculture particularly and that crisis needs to be addressed. in berlin we did not foresee that we were going to have a foot-and-mouth crisis and we did not foresee the bse crisis either. we are, therefore, in a new situation and it is misleading and incorrect to say there is no money to resolve it. when we had swine fever, we gave eur 800 million to german and dutch farmers. today, when the british farmers have a major problem, are we going to change the rules of the game and refuse to give the british farmers the assistance to which they are entitled under the treaties? we cannot change the rules and we cannot deny it to them. their own government has crucified them by refusing to allow them into the single currency. the european union cannot add insult to that injury by saying that it is not its responsibility that they have a serious problem in the area of foot-and-mouth. if the council insists there is a limit, we have to insist that it is 1.27%. there is plenty of money to resolve the problem for the next two years and following that we can still have that 1.27% which i hope will finance enlargement.
madam president, unlike the last speaker i do not think this is an issue that should be trivialised in this way. last night, i was astonished by mr fatuzzo's speech. this is an issue which concentrates on cruelty towards, and inhumane abuse of, animals. it is nothing to laugh about. we should not be making jokes about these issues. this is an extremely important issue. there is a lot of hypocrisy in this house. last night people were using the excuse that we need further testing but we have to be sure that we do not cause any damage to children, that we must protect them. it is ironic that those same people voted against our amendment in committee in relation to the fact that fragrances are included in baby products. if we really want to protect children then surely those people would have voted to ban the use of fragrances in baby products. they are completely unnecessary. they also expose babies to unnecessary risks. i want to re-endorse the fact that this is not a trivial issue. it is extremely serious. the general public throughout the eu are very much opposed to the use of animals for something that is completely unnecessary. this is basically cosmetics – things to boost people's egos, making a huge amount of money for the industry. we really should take account of animal welfare. it is unjustifiable in the twenty-first century that we are using such prehistoric practices.
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted the report by the german socialist member dagmar roth-behrendt, which calls for a ban on animal testing and the introduction of labelling to enable consumers to make an informed choice. while citizens are calling for stricter standards in the food industry, the cosmetics industry continues to market products that contain potentially harmful ingredients. the debate on this report on the use of animal testing and ingredients in cosmetics and toiletries raises concerns about the use of allergenic ingredients for cosmetic purposes, as well as substances linked to cancer and hormonal problems. the fact that community legislation provides for strict limits on the use of certain chemicals for cosmetic purposes does not guarantee that the user will not be affected by their use. the time has come for a complete review of the use of chemicals known or suspected to be harmful. in sweden and japan, the use of formaldehyde is strictly prohibited because it is said to be carcinogenic. in the rest of the eu however, it is commonly used as a preservative in 'family-friendly' hair shampoos. not only is it not banned elsewhere in europe, but we are not even told that it is in the products we buy. in addition to the prohibition of certain ingredients, better labelling of cosmetics and toiletries is needed to enable consumers to make informed choices.
mr president, i should like to congratulate all the rapporteurs, especially mr blak for his hard work on this report. i can recall a time when this committee on budgetary control was just a subcommittee of the committee on budgets. mr aigner, as chairman, fought to have it made a full committee and he also fought to get a court of auditors, which we succeeded in getting. over the years we achieved real control and achieved the possibility to affect the management of the resources of the european union. but we are in danger of overplaying our hand. the more we shout about fraud and corruption, the less seriously we will be taken unless it is absolutely necessary and unless we know exactly what we are talking about. i want to warn against that because we in the committee on budgetary control used to see ourselves as working with the commission for the improvement of the management of our resources. too many people see us now as working against the commission, and i want to warn that is not a healthy trend. i also want to refer to the question of the statement of assurance and discharge. the court of auditors was set up to apply accountancy procedures. it looks at the way money is spent. it looks at the figures and it comes to its conclusion that everything does not fit together and that it cannot give discharge. we have an entirely different responsibility. if you look through the lists which have been mentioned before – whether it be italian milk quotas, whether it be olive oil in the mediterranean, whether it be sheep in the united kingdom and ireland, whether it be the number of cattle in corsica – you will find that in every single case it was the member state that failed, not the european commission. i am not saying the commission is perfect, but we cannot oblige the commission to say "you must crack the whip and every member state in the european union will respond", because it will not happen. anyone who knows the short history of the european union and the long history of europe will know that proud states are not going to dance at the crack of a whip by the european commission. but we can work towards it and we are getting there. we will achieve a cohesive union but we must be responsible in our attitude to the whole question of what is intentionally fraudulent and what are simply mistakes and errors that cannot, in the short term, be avoided.
mr president, commissioner, last month in the emergency debate on foot-and-mouth i indicated that it was not a time for apportioning blame and indeed i sympathised with the plight of british farmers. in the meantime, i have not altered my view other than to say, regretfully, that the dreaded virus has since spread to my country with devastating consequences for farmers within the control zone of cooley peninsula, and with worrying implications for ireland's farming and rural communities. with such a dreaded virus one is somewhat reluctant to talk about success, other than to say thankfully ireland's quick response, sometimes regarded as extreme, has so far been successful in containing the disease to one outbreak. but ireland is paying an enormous price for this single incident. it affects not just the farmers but the broader economy such as tourism and employment. however, i am left with some questions about the effectiveness of the controls up to the point of the outbreak of the first disease. it is obvious that britain's first outbreak originated outside the community, and i now question whether third countries which export to us are complying with the conditions we have imposed. this is something on which the eu food and veterinary office must focus in the immediate future. secondly, we must question whether the meat being imported into the european union is being fraudulently misrepresented on importation. are the inspection procedures and sampling arrangements at import points into the union adequate? i ask the commissioner today, who has been doing an extremely good job, to consider increasing the level of sampling as an initial step. in my contribution last month i called for an eu taskforce to police the implementation of the control measures in member states. i ask today are we satisfied that enough is being done? what about the method of disposal – have we reached any scientific conclusions about the necessity for incineration as against the safe burial of dead animals? do we have a view on the psychological impact, not just on farmers, but on the entire eu population, young and old, of the non-stop display on our television screens of truckloads of dead and decomposing animals? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, it is now clear that everyone's hope that the foot-and-mouth disease crisis will be temporary and short-lived has not been realised. in the republic of ireland we have been fortunate so far in that the outbreak has been confined to one area close to the border with northern ireland. and while the disease has appeared in only four member states, we cannot yet be sure that it will not spread further. in the light of this, we must make certain that the restrictions domestically imposed do not impact disproportionately to the detriment of other key industries and public life generally. the option, therefore, of vaccination has to be kept open in the interests of the wider community. i said this last month. i hope that this month, given the weight of opinion expressed here today, this will now be listened to. the current draconian restrictions on people's movements cannot continue. we cannot reasonably expect the farming community to have the balanced view of this issue that the wider community needs. it is for politicians to make these balanced choices. i am thinking, in particular, of the tourist industry in ireland, which is worth eur 4 billion. the irish hotels federation is already reporting actual losses of eur 55 million in the last month, with obvious knock-on consequences for employment. it must also be made clear that the illegal movement of sheep by unscrupulous operators will not be tolerated. such movements in border areas between northern ireland and the republic of ireland must be stamped out and licenses withdrawn from those found to be involved in such practices. to conclude, i want to support the call by my colleagues for a european taskforce, not only to monitor the existing situation, but whose remit would also be to monitor and approve a european-wide eradication programme.
mr president, commissioner, many questions have been asked today and time does not permit me to repeat them, particularly those questions asked by my colleague, liam hyland, and indeed colleague de rossa in relation to the proportionality of the response. could this outbreak have been prevented? will consumers lose confidence in our food? are our rules and regulations concerning animal movement and animal traceability all that they should be? are farmers' incomes such that they can afford to call out a vet when in doubt and have the european commission and the national responses been adequate to the challenge? there will be more time for those later. then there is the complex question of vaccination, even if it is not on the irish agenda. in the last 18 months, 34 countries have reported outbreaks. to maintain a disease-free status a country has to be free of fmd for at least 12 months, an effective system of surveillance must be in place and all regulatory measures for the prevention and control of fmd must have been implemented. a policy of strategic ring-vaccination around outbreaks may be appropriate in certain circumstances even though we still cannot distinguish commercially between infected and vaccinated animals. i appreciate that the dutch, for example, have a particular problem about disposing of carcasses so vaccination is for them perhaps an option to ring-fence the disease. i am referring specifically to firebreak vaccination. with the tragedy of fmd following on from bse and swine fever we must review in a rational way the common agricultural policy. we know that fmd has been around for 400 years so modern farm practices cannot be blamed for this virulent disease, but the mobility of animals today gives rise to greater risk and faster contamination. the general principle should be to ensure that animals are slaughtered as close as possible to the point of production. there are huge economic implications for ireland from this disease and while farmers are suffering badly, because of restriction of movements and slaughtering, so are other businesses and industries, particularly our tourism and transport sectors. already we have lost irl 200 million in tourism receipts since the outbreak of fmd in the uk some weeks ago. our overseas markets are seriously threatened and we have only one case of it. in conclusion, we are only spending 1% of the 1.2% of gdp currently available. there are other measures that can help compensate sectors generally in terms of our budget.
i thank the commissioner for the points he has made. i would like to ask specifically whether he, or the commission, has been in contact with the government of sierra leone and whether they have asked them to condemn publicly these rapes and acts of sexual violence against women and young girls by the ruf? does he accept that the government of sierra leone needs substantial support from the international community, particularly the eu, to include – amongst what he has said – training for the army, the police force, prosecutors, judges and other law enforcement officials involved in human rights observance? should the unamsil forces be strengthened with equipment and other logistics to provide security for civilians, especially women and children? finally, commissioner, perhaps you could respond to the related, but different, issue of the alarming reports of the sexual abuse of nuns by priests in 23 countries, especially in africa, including sierra leone, and the hopelessly inadequate response over a long period by the vatican. has the commission, at the very least, insisted on an adequate response from rome concerning this other example of sexual abuse of women and girls?
mr president, if i had an hour instead of a minute i could maybe touch on some of the key points, however, in the european parliament we have to work within these limits. at the outset i want to congratulate and thank madam hermange for her advocacy on behalf of people with disabilities and in particular for her willingness to take on board new ideas with regard to creating a barrier-free europe. any charter of rights, any constitution will tell you, that all people are borne equal, yet every single day disabled people in the european union are treated as unequal. in fact, in many scenarios they are treated as inferior beings to the rest of society. i can bring hundreds of examples of discrimination, of ignorance, thousands of examples of prejudice. when we speak about a barrier-free europe for people with disabilities, our main focus is always on legislation, on new innovation with regard to buildings or access to transport. these are all key and important elements, but the first thing that we have to overcome, the first barrier that has to be jumped is a psychological barrier and the prejudices within each and every one of us. when we see someone with a disability, instead of focusing on the disability, let us treat everyone as equal, focus on their ability and give them the tools of information, of training, of education and of opportunity to really show how much ability they actually have. i commend this report to the house and would ask that it should not just be an expression of good intentions or the conscience of the members of this house or of the commission, but lead to real action before 2003, so that then when we celebrate the european year for the disabled citizen, we can actually say that we have made progress and moved beyond some of the barriers.
mr president, i welcome this report and the three main elements to it, of which we are already aware. i fully support the position taken by the commissioner for public health and consumer protection, mr byrne, when he states that it is dangerous to assume that a member state can protect its citizens' health by its own efforts alone. he is fully correct in his approach. we know that a single market exists where there is a free movement of goods, persons, services and capital within the territories of the european union. communicable diseases which affect the health of our citizens do not stop at borders. citizens of each member state must have access to the wide range of information concerning the factors affecting their health and on the way in which public health systems within that country meet their needs. this proposal also covers the important legislative initiatives in areas such as safety of blood and blood derivatives, and the implementation of wider anti-smoking campaigns. the commission must be given a central coordinating role in public health to deal with illnesses, from detecting their origin to their actual treatment. it is very important that homeopathy should also be included as a medical treatment within this european community action plan on public health. finally, the european commission should allocate greater financial resources to investigating the causes of, and possible cures for, alzheimer's disease.
madam president, the stockholm summit was hardly the greatest diplomatic achievement with regard to the development of the european union; however, the business conducted at the stockholm council did certainly reflect the reality of what is happening in the european union at this time. european union leaders demonstrated solidarity in the face of the problem of foot-and-mouth disease, which threatens the european agricultural sector at this time. european leaders acted as a force for peace in the balkans by offering timely support for the macedonian government and there was a full political and economic dialogue with the russian president, mr putin. some progress was certainly made towards achieving the targets set at lisbon last year to make the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by the year 2010. the member states of the european union are fully committed to the goal of full employment and we also see the achievement of this objective as an important way of meeting the challenge of an ageing population in europe. the european union employment rate targets, which have to be reached by the year 2010, mean that steady progress has to be made over this period if these objectives are to be met. increasing employment rates will demand the active implementation of employment policies as foreseen under the european employment guidelines. we do not want to build a two-tier europe union, a european union of the haves and a european union of the have-nots. we want to ensure that all the citizens of the union are given opportunities to integrate fully into the workplace and to this extent we must ensure the intensification of training and education programmes for those without skills as well as putting in place retraining opportunities for the existing workforce. certainly, much progress has been made in the last 12 months with regard to educating and training the european workforce in the benefits which lie open for us all from the use of the internet and related e-commerce opportunities. the european council did address the demographic challenge of an ageing population of which people of working age constitute an even smaller part. the issue of how best the union is going to deal with future public and private pension programmes is a serious matter, which must be addressed by all eu member states as a matter of priority. agreement was not reached on how best to liberalise the gas and electricity sectors in europe. however, the structures do exist for addressing these outstanding issues on the basis of cooperation between the member states of the union. on this latter point, any further liberalisation of postal service operations in europe must be fair and must be balanced and postal services play an important social and economic function in rural towns and villages within the union. i certainly will not support a structure whereby postal services are liberalised in europe and this only results in the quality of the postal service operations being diminished within the territories of the union. i certainly will not support a situation whereby postal service operations will be cherry-picked by private operators, servicing only key lucrative urban areas which will benefit from such reform programmes at the expense of the rural parts. finally, certainly an achievement of the council at stockholm was the agreement to fast-track the development of a common approach for the regulation of financial services within the union. the implementation of this plan has been subject to delays, which have prevented europe, in the past, from taking full advantage of the benefits of the single market.
in writing. -(en) when we talk about the problem of disabled people in europe, we should always start with the fact that this problem is first and foremost a civil and human rights problem. we have a duty not only to uphold these rights but also to actively promote access to education, training and employment. we can go back to the previous reports and resolutions of this parliament on disabled people. however, the same basic obstacles and problems still exist. some member states and ngos have courageously put forward innovative initiatives to remove obstacles and barriers to equal opportunities for all. however, some still see this as a specific sector rather than a reflection of our society's failure to provide equal opportunities for all. at the dawn of the 21st century, we should send a message to the world that the eu recognises the abilities of everyone, the right to equal treatment and equal opportunities in employment. in support of this report, i recommend to members the points on the role of disability organisations and other ngos, which have been powerful advocates on their behalf and have listened to people's voices and seized the opportunity to change the world for the good of all. we should work to ensure that by 2003, the european year of disabled citizens, we have ensured that the majority of these barriers have been removed.
i should like to thank the president-in-office for his response and would like to give him some information of which he may not be aware. the irish government has stated its intention to hold a referendum on 31 may 2001 to ratify the international criminal court and to alter our constitution for that. i should like to know what positive or proactive action is being taken by the presidency to ensure that not only the existing member states within the eu, but also those countries with associate membership numbering 27 in total, which could help bring us up above the 60 countries required for formal ratification and the enforcement of this international criminal court, actually ratify. following on from that, i know it may not be his exact role within this house, but he may be able to enlighten us as regards the swedish difficulties that may arise with regard to ratification of the international criminal court.
mr president, could i ask the president-in-office once again to restate so everybody can hear that the charter of fundamental rights is a non-binding political declaration as approved by the heads of state and heads of government in nice. if the court of justice or any other court in the european union is using it to bind member states, individuals or associations to an interpretation of that charter, then they are incorrect in law, in justice and in legal interpretation. the only charter of fundamental rights and freedoms which can be utilised in the member state courts or even in the court of justice, as authoritative rather than binding, is the european convention on human rights which is a council of europe document.
mr president, due to the time constraints imposed by you, which give my colleagues a chance of having their questions answered, can i very quickly thank the president-in-office for his response. perhaps the timing was not right, maybe i should table this question again in june, so that he could outline even further what the council should have done and account for its stewardship over a six-month period. of course, i would like to take the opportunity to welcome the green paper on the review of the common fisheries policy, which is all important, particularly to my own country. you will realise that, president, having been an active member of the committee on fisheries in the past. it is important to redress the imbalances of the past. the quota and the tacs which the irish, sharing their prolific fishing grounds with the larger countries, receive was a bad deal. i hope, over the next few months, that we will have an opportunity to impress upon our colleagues in parliament and ministers in the various member states the importance to us. due to the time constraints, i will leave it at that and not ask the minister to give me a response in view of mr fitzsimons' interest.
mr president, i want to thank the president-in-office for his reply mentioned the kyoto protocol. what is the council's response to the statement by president bush that the usa has decided not to implement the kyoto protocol? what does the decision mean for the world community? what steps can be taken to make sure that the kyoto protocol remains the firm basis for future negotiations and action to reduce emissions?
mr president, the group of the greens/european free alliance regrets the fact that an agreement could not be reached. our position has always been that we hoped an agreement would be reached, but with one extremely important proviso, namely that the agreement had to be mutually acceptable and beneficial to both sides. it turns out that such an agreement is not possible. that is unfortunate, but we must respect the right of morocco to determine how to exploit its resources in its own waters. it has the right to self-determination and it has the right to look for the best deal possible for itself. in its green paper, the commission sets very great store by the legitimate aspirations of developing states to develop their fishing industry, and the greens very much agree with this principle. another issue in the green paper is the commitment of the european community to the precautionary principle and the conservation of stocks. the april 2000 report by the scientific, technical economic committee for fisheries reviews the status of the stocks off morocco, as well as other countries in west africa. they do not paint a very optimistic picture for anchovy, cuttlefish, demersal fish, black hake and sardinella. the report says that there is no information on the status of these stocks. the report also notes that octopus and hake fisheries are over-exploited and reductions in effort are needed. it was also pointed out that there was a huge ignorance of the amount of fishing actually being conducted by eu vessels and this is a really important and very worrying point. there was also the lack of guarantee for the protection of small-scale coastal fisheries. finally, we are pleased that compensation and funds for restructuring of fleets has been made available, but we also have to look at the overall fisheries policy within the european union. we cannot keep searching around the world for more and more places to transfer our over-capacity to. we have to be realistic and realise that we must solve the problem from within.
in writing. - i am sure i speak for all members of this house in saying that i am in favour of increased coordination and cooperation in the fight against crime, particularly crossborder crime. i particularly recognise the importance of establishing common standards and rules to better avoid legal obstacles which can block the judicial process. in ireland, in order to combat the different types of crime discussed in this debate, we have set up the criminal assets bureau (cab), a multi-agency body overseen by a legal adviser and a senior police commissioner. the organization has been very successful in seizing the loot of drug traffickers and other criminals, as well as in gathering the evidence needed to bring them to justice. this has led to many criminals being brought to justice and the money being seized from these criminal activities. although it is our heartfelt wish that these criminals be brought to justice, we must ensure that the normal rules of procedure and justice are respected. the desire to put accountants and auditors on an equal footing with lawyers, which is found in this report, is important in maintaining this right of defence. the provision in the common position to allow information collected in a 'money laundering case' to be used for other judicial purposes also seems to me to go too far. finally, i am against the establishment of a european prosecutor, since we already have olaf, the court of auditors and the national agencies which are competent in matters of prosecution.
in writing. - let me briefly explain the reasons why i support the keßler report. the development of the single market and the introduction of the euro now open up great opportunities for crossborder trade in europe. moreover, the increasing globalisation of the market makes it necessary to increase cooperation and understanding between the different judicial systems. in any democratic system, the judicial branch must not only function effectively, but also prove its effectiveness in a way that commands respect from the citizen. the faster and easier legal disputes are resolved, the more legal rights are protected. in addition, it makes it possible to guarantee more effectively the conditions surrounding trade certainty. therefore, the establishment of the eurojust programme, in cooperation with the judicial authorities of the various eu member states, is an important step towards a better understanding of justice. however, this initiative should not be seen as an attempt to overturn or subjugate the systems in force in the various eu member states. it should rather be seen as a means of speeding up the settlement of disputes by introducing greater clarity in judicial decisions. i particularly welcome the creation of a centralised electronic register of judicial decisions at the level of the european union - an idea that we owe to twinkle egan, an irish lawyer. this system will help to understand the different decisions and will help to make the way in which case law operates more consistent.
in writing. - if i am not 100% satisfied with this compromise resolution, it is clear that it reflects the determination of the european parliament to deal urgently with the serious threat posed by foot-and-mouth disease. i voted against the parts of the resolution which deal with general vaccination and supported the amendments which allow emergency vaccination as a preventive measure, at the request of the member states. as the first outbreak in britain originated outside the eu, i have called for a review of crossborder controls in this area as a matter of urgency to prevent such a situation from occurring in the future. in ireland we are strongly in favour of a policy of non-vaccination and have tried in every way to contain the only outbreak in the country - with success so far. as an island state that exports 90% of its national beef production, the animal health status of our herd is a priority.
mr president, there was palpable shock and disappointment at president bush's recent announcement that the us will not cooperate with efforts to decrease carbon emissions in the endeavour to stave off the real threat of global warming. the us, with 5% of the world's population, produces 25% of the world's greenhouse gases. for president bush to tell the eu delegation in washington this week that he acknowledges both the problem and the need to find a solution is hollow rhetoric, when the us distances itself from the only solution on the table, and that a partial solution at best. kyoto is only the beginning of the way forward. what is president bush afraid of? many of the kyoto signatories, including my own country, are failing to meet our agreed targets; but we must keep trying, we must keep talking – at bonn next in june or july – and endeavour to reach the targets set for all the difficulties posed in the short term. the longer-term consequences will be far more difficult to resolve. it is not a question of the environment, or of employment. the promotion and protection of economic competitiveness is inextricably linked to the protection of the environment. well-managed environments are themselves a source of wealth creation through agriculture, tourism and the maintenance of assimilative capacity. environmental protection is therefore a matter of enlightened self-interest for the future economic wellbeing and competitiveness of europe, the us and the entire world. viewed this way, environmental protection becomes part of a virtuous circle whereby a high-quality environment is sustained by wealth, which in turn is sustained by competition, which in turn requires a high-quality environment. yes, environmental orthodoxies must be constantly scrutinised and re-evaluated to ensure that the protection required is proportionate and effective. what kyoto requires of us all is just that: proportionate and effective responses to the global threat of climate change. and developed countries and communities have a particular responsibility. great sensitivity, tolerance and compassion must be employed when it is proposed to apply the environmental standards of the developed world to the economies and environments of emerging economies. we need to acknowledge the resilience of natural systems and their ability subsequently to recover once a plateau of economic stability has been reached. this has been the pattern over most of the developed world. productivity and profitability are important prerequisites for environmental protection and enhancement. i acknowledge the need for sustained economic competitiveness to provide the very resources required for a high-quality environment. president bush, there does not need to be any contradiction between these two objectives. it is not jobs or the environment. please come back on board kyoto, and be sure you do not mortgage all our children's heritage. environmental pollution, climate change, is no respecter of borders.
mr president, here is the world leader, who has such an irresponsible attitude towards the environment and towards our future; it is completely unacceptable. i would fully support any call for the boycotting of us oil companies right throughout europe. the only way we are going to have any effect on the united states is if we use bullying tactics. it is clear that president bush is only representing the interests of us industry. he does not care about the planet, nor about the future for ourselves and our children. considering that the us is the world's biggest consumer of energy, it is completely unacceptable for it to take this totally irresponsible approach. president bush is not a world leader, he is actually a prehistoric monster because he cannot understand what is happening in this world. if he does not understand, we are in big trouble because america is the biggest power in the world and, if it has such an irresponsible attitude, what is going to happen with the rest of the world? it is completely unacceptable. he is an absolute disgrace and i pity the american people. (applause)
mr president, i and everyone in this house condemns sexual abuse of women, or of anyone for that matter, and any delay in bringing to justice those who perpetrate it, whatever their creed, nationality or profession, should rightly be condemned. i cannot, however, support this resolution which targets one specific church; a church which has acknowledged and condemned the cases in question and which has made clear it is taking measures in cooperation with the competent church representatives and civil authorities against the perpetrators involved. it is also supporting the victims, as it does sexual-abuse victims, through its outreach programmes through the world and it is taking steps to prevent a repetition of these terrible incidents. regretfully, it must be said that resolutions of this nature suggest an ulterior motive for political reasons, which appears to be the deliberate discrediting of the catholic church and the holy see on an international level and possibly forcing its removal from international forums, where it is actively promoting the dignity of women and mothers.
madam president, i too had not intended to take the floor, but this issue has now occupied our attention for three-quarters of an hour. in the meeting of the conference of presidents, all of the group leaders present made a very great effort to try to understand the precedents, to try to understand the complexity and to try to arrive at a reasoned and fair decision. i believe the decision that was arrived at at the conference of presidents reflected a consensus view, which was a collective wisdom, and you have enunciated that view here today. everyone who has studied this dossier in great detail and who has discussed it free from polemics, but not free from their political preferences, has a view on these issues; no one made any personal accusation or imputation against you. i want to say, on behalf of my own group, that although you find yourself in an extremely difficult personal position, you have behaved with honour personally, as president of this house, from the very first moment this issue was placed before you. on 28 august last, you requested the assistance of the spanish authorities on the issue of the competent authority to transmit this document. i believe that the delay, for which you are now being reproached in debates like this, is totally undignified and unwarranted, and that you and this parliament find themselves becoming the victim as bystander of a process of an executive outside this house. i intend, on behalf of my own group, notwithstanding the mission you have conferred on madame garaud, to whom again, on behalf of my group, i wish to express our profound sympathy, to take direct personal contact with the spanish authorities, because we have a right to have an early and urgent answer. the delay has been unwarranted and undignified and it has cast you in a light and in a role where you do not properly belong. i defend what you have done. i hope and believe you would similarly defend any member. if madame garaud is not in a position, for perfectly understandable reasons, to undertake the mission that you have conferred on her, it could be advisable to see if, in such circumstances, an alternative may be found, if only because it is important for the presidency of this house to be able to assure members, as i believe we were assured at a prolonged debate of the conference of presidents, that you have acted with concern for due process and with propriety at all times. we discussed the matter of precedents at length and the two precedents were rather interesting. one was an italian case which came as a direct reference from a court. this is not a good precedent in this case because the italian constitution had changed between the earlier format of transmission and the most recent, and consequently the law itself had changed. therefore, because the constitution was a different constitution, it is not a precedent with regard to the issue of a competent authority to transmit such a request. the second was one of three cases to lift the immunity of a member, as it happened i think from spain. two of them clearly came through the transmission mechanism where there was no argument on competent authority. but the third came with the thumbprint of government on it, unlike this request, so it is an inadequate precedent, even if it is a modest step in that direction. all this has left you in a very difficult and delicate position, madam president. i believe the undignified delay is the primary cause of all this concern and therefore, if we have political anger, while we are entitled to feel and express that anger, we should direct it at those who have caused the delay: that is most certainly not you and it is not the office of the presidency of the european parliament.
madam president, very soon the european parliament will vote on public access to documents. in ireland, the only country in the european union which will vote on the treaty of nice, i am informed by my constituents that the irish government is not providing copies of the treaty of nice, but only its white paper on the treaty. our government has made clear that it will support a yes vote for the treaty of nice, as of course democratically it is allowed to do, but my constituents would like to decide for themselves and would like to have copies of the treaty itself. can you offer any advice in this situation?
mr president, following the fall of the milosevic regime on 1 october 2000 and the ensuing democratic changes which took place in belgrade, the european union has radically changed its policy towards serbia. in the union's message to the serbian people last september the foreign minister said that the union promised that a vote for democracy in serbia would be a vote for serbia in europe. after the democratic transition in serbia, the union lifted its sanctions to repeal the oil embargo against serbia and the union lifted flight bans. the union has also extended funding via the european reconstruction agency in serbia to montenegro as well as to propose an extension to the recently announced trade preferences of the balkans and the whole of yugoslavia. it is very important that the european union and yugoslavia normalise diplomatic relations. the european union is right to be active in contributing to the institutional and economic rebuilding that is presently taking place within the former republic of yugoslavia. we must all work together to put behind us the tragic events that have taken place in the balkans since the 1990s. the arrest of mr milosevic is the first important step in bringing him to justice and the authorities in belgrade must be congratulated for their determination in this regard. it is only right and proper that he answers to the serbian people for crimes he has committed against them and in their name. we now have before us the best prospects for a generation of building lasting peace and prosperity across the whole of south-east europe and the european union is prepared to play an active role in this regard. the overall financial assistance from the union to the states which comprise the former republic of yugoslavia now amounts to eur 475 million. this assistance includes help for educational programmes, reconciliation schemes, the provision of shelters for refugees, constructing border crossing-points as well as supporting infrastructure projects such as the building of roads and the clearing of the danube river of pollutants. i also believe it is important that kosovo leaders speak out clearly against the violence that is taking place in the former republic of yugoslavia. these leaders should remember that it is very hard to justify to european taxpayers the very substantial levels of financial assistance kosovo is receiving from the union if its leaders fail to condemn the violence which is taking place in the region at this time. the violence, murder, human suffering and instability in the balkan regions, which have been taking place over the last 10 years, must now be put behind us.
my apologies for the inability of the shadow rapporteur, mr trakatellis, to be with us this evening. at short notice, i have agreed to try and say a few words on his behalf in relation to this most important topic. first of all, i would like to commend all those involved to date from the commission up through the council and indeed, back to us, but particularly mrs roth-behrendt, for the personal commitment she has given to this most important issue. a year ago, i spoke in parliament in relation to this particular matter and my views were clearly laid out. i think it was 16 may last year, the time of the first reading. not a lot has happened since in one sense. in another sense, both politically and scientifically, a huge amount has happened in the whole area of tse, more particularly if you like, in relation to bse. a year ago, it was the uk, ireland and one or two other isolated outbreaks of bse that was concentrating the minds, particularly the epidemic that had been experienced by the uk for some time. since then, as you know, we have had portugal, belgium, holland, spain, denmark, germany, italy and austria. but we must look at the numbers involved relative to the cattle population in each country to make sense, rather than just to panic the consumer. it has been very hard to have a reasonable rational debate on the impact of an outbreak of bse, be it 3, 4 or several hundred cases at a time. it must be taken relative to the cattle population in each country. only this week we hear of reports of outbreaks among the elk in the colorado regions of the us and of new variant cjd outbreak among young men, young hunters – not the normal age group associated with cjd as we have over the years understood it to be. there has also been increased rigour in the reporting of bse and increased surveillance generally with new testing regimes. this is not an indication that the disease is spreading, because we are get increased numbers. it means we are being more effective and more efficient in terms of looking for the disease in the various countries. that must be spelled out also so that we do not panic the consumer into thinking that the disease is continuing to spread. it is not. bse is a disease of older cows, primarily older dairy cows. it has a much higher incidence among the dairy herds, than the suckler herds, probably because the dairy men could afford more concentrates traditionally over the years. in most countries the milk gave a higher economic return than, for example, breeding beef – certainly that was the experience in ireland and the uk. but at the moment the high risk is with the dairy herd, the six and seven year-old cows and that is why, since i spoke last year, we have had the destruct scheme that was announced on 13 december 2000, if i recall correctly, that will be in place until the end of this year. my one big criticism of the destruct scheme is that it did not particularly insist that member states with a problem targeted the older cow, where the real risk cohort still remained. in fact, this scheme was used to underpin the market and the price of cattle, rather than primarily to take out the disease in the older cow. i do not mind underpinning the market. that could be part of it. but it should be secondary to removing the disease and that was not the case and i criticise that particular scheme in that respect. we have also learned a lot in the last year in relation to new variant cjd and that patients with a distinct genetic makeup are prone to it, not the entire population. we need to say more about that so the public understands the relative impact that it may or may not have. it is genetic, its infectious, its degenerative, but there are very, very few cases, given, for example, the number of bse cases in the uk in the cattle herd. we have been eating scrapie-infected sheep for over two hundred years, with no ill effect, and that is because the structure of the shape of the prion, the non-infectious protein, in the sheep, is not compatible to that in the human brain, unlike the rendered cattle or beef prion, that replaces the protein necessary in our brains. again, we have not been telling the story as it is. yes, i agree with an awful lot has been done and we need what is proposed before us here today, but i would rather we use the oie or wto standard, so that all countries could agree on the classification, so that what we do in europe would not be considered a trade barrier by the rest of the world with whom we must trade our meat products and live animals. that is my one criticism still that, in this respect, we want to go it alone in europe, rather than operate a worldwide basis in relation to this. congratulations to all concerned.
mr president, i will start where my colleague finished. i am not particularly exercised about ferrets one way or the other i have to confess, but i rather like the line mr whitehead took: we should look again and maybe ask some of the experts. there are many of us who are not very up-to-date in terms of what can or cannot be done on ferrets in relation to immunity testing. i would not like the job myself. i must confess a conflict of interest at the start. when i return from brussels or wherever, be it a thursday evening or friday morning, the greatest welcome i get is from my collection of dogs – at least in terms of the noise they make and the length of time. yes, the rest of the family are delighted – a quick "hi mum", – a head goes up and you might get a hug and then back to the tv or whatever they were doing – but 20 minutes later the dogs are still running round in high excitement. so i can really empathise with those who feel passionately about the need to be able to bring animals freely throughout europe subject to the conditions being laid down today and i welcome the report here before us. the commission measures proposed to allow for the easier movement of cats and dogs within the eu, and a selection of other animals that are classified as pets as well. however, the environment committee did give the ferrets a knock and that is where it stands subject to perhaps investigating what my colleague mr whitehead has said. i welcome very much, as others have said, that we can celebrate the success of the anti-rabies vaccination campaign which has allowed us to get to the point we are at today and which allowed initially the uk, ireland and sweden to change their quarantine system, thereby giving us the template that the commission now proposes to extend effectively throughout the eu. we must be on guard though about bringing pet animals in from third countries, because any cases of rabies which are found in the eu at the moment come from third countries where rabies is still endemic. let us be very careful about border controls in relation to importing again this horrible disease particularly to countries that are now rabies-free. as part of the measures proposed by the commission, animals will have to be identified by electronic transponder or tattoo, and provide evidence that they have been vaccinated and that their immunity has been checked more than six months prior to travel. i have problems with any continuation of the use of tattoos, and the environment committee is of the same view. i also have problems with ad lib use of transponders rather than standardisation of the transponder and this view is also supported by the federation of veterinarians of europe, the fve. they feel very strongly that only a standard microchip should be used. remember it is 8 years down the line. we have plenty of time to sort this out and get things in order. the report before us is based on a scientific veterinary committee report written in september 1977. this was before the agreed iso standards 11784 and 11785 came into being, and therefore, before there was true compatibility between products from different manufacturers. since the introduction of standards which can be specified in legislation, as done in the uk pet statute, all iso standard readers can read all iso standard microchips. initially, we also thought that microchip numbers could be changed. it has never been demonstrated that this can be achieved and technical advice from engineers involved in microchip design and manufacture indicates that it will never be easy or even possible to achieve. we must bear in mind that more modern advanced microchips are being designed with authentication programmes which will be even harder to change fraudulently. however, the value of the benefit in changing a microchip identification number in a pet animal is unlikely to ever be so great as to warrant the effort and the cost involved. tattoos, however, are much less satisfactory. they are difficult to read in small species such as the cat, they are difficult to read in breeds where the ears are cropped, they are difficult for regulatory officers to read in aggressive or apprehensive individuals and they are relatively easy to erase and to change fraudulently. i will therefore be supporting very strongly amendment nos 6 and 7, even though the need to retrieve the name and address of the owner off the microchip is in some doubt, but i go for a standardisation of the chip, and only the chip not the tattoo.
rapporteur. – mr president, i welcome the commissioner to the house. on welfare, therapeutic and economic grounds, it is essential that european veterinarians have access to the fullest possible range of veterinary medicines to treat all food-producing animals, while at the same time keeping consumer health protection at the top of all our agendas. requirements for the placing of veterinary medicinal products on the market have been harmonised since the early 1980s when council directive 81/851 was adopted. a series of availability problem have arisen, compromising animals health and welfare across species. there is a need for urgent short-term solutions as well as for a broad review of all the legislation involved. this is what the commission proposes and i fully endorse it. no veterinary medicinal product can be used in food-producing animals unless maximum residue limits, mrls, are set up for its active substances. a recent evaluation of the eu product licensing procedures observed, and i quote, "significant concern in the veterinary sector about the decreased availability of established medicinal products for food-producing animals as a result of the introduction of the mrl requirements." the issue was brought to a head at the end of 1999 with the expiry of a transitional period for fixing mrls for established drugs. in many cases, the lack of adequate economic return has been an important factor in the failure of sponsoring companies to commit the necessary resources to generating the data necessary to satisfy eu regulatory requirements for fixing mrls. many pharmaceutical companies have been spending up to 25% of the research budget in defending their products. in its communications the commission announces a number of short-term measures, the extrapolation of mrls, and medium-term actions such as incentives for industry, more flexible rules for the use of products and the revision of the existing legal instruments. they announced these measures to increase the availability of products. these actions are to be welcomed and, in particular, the extrapolation of mrls between species that could help to maintain on the market many products intended for minor species. the mrl problem gives rise to greatest concern in these minor food-producing species, such as horses, goats, rabbits, fish, bees – minor in terms of their economic importance for the pharmaceutical companies, hence their lack of defence of the various veterinary products required. but major species have also been affected. in my own country, ireland, there is no legal local anaesthetic to use on cattle at this point in time. every country can point to a major species where a drug has been taken off the market, not because it is not available somewhere in europe, but because there has not been a marketing authorisation for that particular member state. hence, the point i am making – and the commission also shares this view – is that we need a pan-european system whereby a product authorised properly in one member state can be used throughout the eu. i would also encourage member states to develop this system as quickly as possible, because it will be part of the short-term resolution of the crisis, and i use that word advisedly, that exists at the moment with the availability of veterinary medicines on the ground. many new member states have been pressing the commission for some time to deal with the availability problem, taking particular account of the unique situation of horses. none of the other minor food-producing species i have mentioned exhibit similar features as the length of the life span, sections of the industry not being oriented towards food production, high monetary value of individual animals and the recreational and sentimental value. a further complication is that three dgs are involved in all of this: entr, sanco and indeed agri. in december 1999, dg sanco proposed to allow the veterinary use of substances without mrls in horses, provided records of treatment are kept and horses do not enter into the food chain before six months after use. provisions relating to the equine passport were modified through decision 2000/68 but it subsequently ran into legal problems. passports are now obligatory for all horses and contain a new annex for recording of veterinary treatments. directive 81/851 and council regulation no 2377/90 are however still to be amended to allow such use. i am very aware of the concerns of the horse industry, particularly the thoroughbred industry, and i do not have to remind the commissioner that if a full and up-to-date range of therapies is not available, there is a real risk that foreign investment in stud and training establishments throughout europe will be lost to third countries. having said that, it cannot be ruled out that any horse could enter the food chain at the end of its useful life and therefore safeguards are necessary to cover this aspect, as i have already mentioned. in conclusion, i would urge the commission to ensure that as quickly as possible we have a short-term resolution to the crisis for minor food-producing species in relation to the availability of state-of-art veterinary medicines. it is a welfare issue, it is a therapeutic issue, it is an economic issue, and it is in every member state of the eu. we urge the commission to move as quickly as possible to amend the necessary regulation, to allow extrapolation, the use of passports for horses and to resolve the problem.
like the rapporteur, i come from a country where we do not eat horses – people ride them but they do not eat them, the same as in the uk – and therefore i find it difficult to comprehend. but i suppose there are other traditions in europe, like eating foie gras, which is distasteful, because you also have to consider how the animal is reared, in humane conditions or not, how is the animal transported etc. with foie gras it is a much more cruel exercise and much more distasteful than eating horses because, at least in most cases, the horses have a better life than the unfortunate geese. but it is clear that in some european countries horses are produced for human consumption – in the benelux countries, france and italy, there is quite a large consumption of horsemeat – and we have to take this into account. as far as i can see, no distinction has been made, either by the member states, or by the eu legislator, between horses raised for the purpose of meat production and horses raised for recreational purposes. in relation to the access to medical and veterinary products for horses, we also have to take into account the whole issue of animal welfare problems. when we look at horses that have been used for recreational purposes that end up going into the human food chain, it is essential that a precautionary approach is taken to ensure that public health and consumer protection take priority. even though horses are not initially reared for human consumption, they do end up in the human food chain. it is extremely important we have viable and traceable means to ensure that farmers observe any preslaughter waiting-time periods, in particular concerning recreational horses entering the chain for human consumption. it is an extremely important issue because although it will not affect people in ireland and the uk – because we do not eat horses – it will in other countries. it is important that there is a balance between animal welfare and the need for consumer protection.
mr president, i support economic cooperation within the european union. it is important if the internal market, and more particularly the single currency, is to operate effectively. from an irish perspective the stability programme is central to the budgetary process. a most recently updated programme adopted last december was framed against a prospect of strong but moderate economic growth and in the medium to long-term the government intends to continue to run significant budgetary surpluses reflecting economic good sense and our obligations under the stability and growth pact. needless to say, i fully support the policies being pursued by our minister for finance. we believe that government debt in ireland will be reduced to around 25% of gdp by the year 2003. we are allocating at least 1% of gdp annually to build up the pension reserve fund so as to provide for our ageing population. in relation to price inflation, which is one of the issues addressed in the council’s recommendation to ireland, it is important that we are clear on the following key statistics: the latest figures show that inflation as measured by the harmonised european index has fallen from 6% last november to 3.9% this year. our inflation rate is now lower than that in a number of other eu member states. in conclusion, as regards the future of ireland within the european union, we are fully committed to the operation of the internal market and to the single currency. we want to make both these key projects a real success within the union, and we support enlargement. i am actively canvassing for a yes-vote in the referendum which i hope will be carried.
mr president, i want first of all to welcome giorgos katiforis’s report. it is regrettable that some aspects were deleted in committee and perhaps all those may be restored in today’s vote. i would particularly welcome the proposal for a special pension fund by member states. it is an issue which has been addressed in ireland over some years and has now been put in place. substantial amounts of money are now in a fund which will guarantee pensions long into the future, and this is a very positive development. i make that positive point because i am going to be quite critical of the irish government’s position in relation to the broad economic policy guidelines. for the first time ever an eu state was criticised unanimously, indeed reprimanded, by ecofin. this was unfortunate, not because it was not necessary, but because we should not the eu find ourselves in such a position that simply feeds euro-scepticism in europe, particularly in the country which is so reprimanded. now the commission has published its guidelines for 2002, all member states, including ireland, should openly negotiate its position, make it clear to the public at home what their position is, so that when the time comes and budgets are being implemented based around those guidelines, the public knows exactly why that is being done.
mr president, i fully support legislation to upgrade the quality and standard of telecommunication infrastructures within the european union. the changing nature of work today entails a knowledge of, and access to, new modern telecommunication facilities. however, any changes to our telecommunication infrastructures must be fair and balanced. it is imperative that new entrants to the marketplace are not permitted to cherrypick the larger and more lucrative urban areas for the use of these important new technologies. there must be a strong commitment by all governments to ensure that equivalent telecommunications are provided in both urban and particularly rural areas. this commitment to universal access for urban and rural areas must be intrinsically included in policies pursued by various telecom regulators operating in the marketplace. new technology can contribute enormously to the implementation of effective rural development policy, and it will be a key factor in the creation of vital new employment in rural areas and in addressing the problem of the urban/rural imbalance which is a priority issue for this parliament. i welcome in particular the work of european commissioner for consumer protection, david byrne, in devising new mechanisms to govern consumer protection rights for people who enter into contracts over the internet. electronic business is now one of the more significant drivers of both successful business development and national economic development. it provides a fundamental new way of conducting commercial transactions and has far-reaching economic and social implications.
i want to come back to the point mr krivine raised in relation to our echelon delegation to the united states. this is an extremely important and serious issue. what is happening is that the united states has decided to refuse entry to a democratically-elected member of this parliament for political reasons. this is completely unacceptable. who are the united states to decide, for political reasons, that a democratically-elected member of this parliament is not allowed to enter? the united states clearly has double standards: they have allowed many others to enter, including gerry adams and nelson mandela, with various pasts. now they are deciding because they do not like the politics of a specific member of this parliament that they are going to refuse entry. this is a diplomatic issue and one that must be raised urgently.
in writing. - the debate in recent months has highlighted and prioritised the public health aspect of european and national food policies, of which bse is the most important. future agricultural and environmental policy must therefore reflect our experience in this crucial area of food production. it cannot be tolerated that member states do not fully comply with the new guidelines and regulations. food is an internationally marketable commodity and, at a time when consumers cross borders on a daily basis, it is only through a coordinated and common approach to food safety - and by making it the eu's priority - that the eu will restore consumer confidence in the entire food chain; and if there is a cost factor at play, particularly for farmers, restoring as quickly as possible full confidence in all agricultural products would, in my view, be in the best interests of agriculture and farming families. member states have taken positive and costly measures to tackle bse. the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, which poses no health risk, has to some extent overshadowed the very serious measures taken to finally eliminate bse from the european herd. these measures have been taken on a scientific basis, and i believe that we will soon have found - also thanks to strict compliance with production controls - a happy and permanent solution to this threat to public health. while acknowledging the weight of scientific evidence for the link between bse and cjd and the use of meat and bone meal, it must be borne in mind that, in proportion to the different herds in the member states, the rate of infection is low and, of course, limited to a relatively short production cycle. the number of animals infected or at risk has now been considerably reduced. we must never again witness the terrible events of the past few months, nor the understandable concern of consumers about food safety.
in writing. - the risk of attempts to counterfeit the euro when it starts circulating in the form of coins and banknotes is very high. the euro is already a global reserve and transaction currency. if we do not unite our efforts to crack down on counterfeiters, the euro will compete head-on with the dollar for the title of most counterfeited currency. the euro is particularly vulnerable to counterfeiting at the time of its introduction into circulation and during the dual circulation phase with national coins and banknotes. i am referring in particular to the months of january and february next year, when many people will not be familiar with the appearance of euro banknotes and coins. agreements to protect the euro against counterfeiting must involve all member states and all eu institutions and all relevant international organisations. a comprehensive legal framework should be established which can be administered in a uniform manner throughout the territories of the european union. the fact is that the only international instrument designed to prevent and punish counterfeiting is the 1929 geneva convention - a convention which is quite ineffective in its purpose. this is one reason why the member states of the european union have adopted various laws to ensure that offenders who are guilty of counterfeiting are severely punished. the eu leaders were right when they said in nice last december that an effective system to protect the euro against counterfeiting must be adopted as soon as possible this year. the agreements to protect the euro against counterfeiting will be based mainly on information covering two categories. the first concerns technical information such as data collection, manufacturing processes and technical features of forgeries. the coordination centre for the analysis of counterfeits, set up under the auspices of the european central bank, will be responsible for coordinating this information. the second category concerns police intelligence, which will be used to assist in the collection of counterfeiting data, both at the strategic and operational level. the introduction of the euro and the disappearance of national currencies will ensure a shift from the protection of certain national interests to the protection of a community interest. this implies the establishment of cooperation and coordination between the key actors and the member states, which will be responsible for the fight against euro counterfeiting. it is clear that this cooperation and coordination will involve the police and judicial authorities as well as community bodies and institutions such as the european central bank, olaf and europol.
in writing. - i am not in favour of the legalisation of ecstasy, cannabis or other synthetic drugs such as lsd or amphetamines. the united nations convention against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances prohibits the use, manufacture and distribution of ecstasy, lsd and amphetamines, and this position should be fully supported. the world health organization has also repeatedly pointed out the innumerable harm that these drugs can do to users. we cannot support the establishment of a drug culture in our society by legalising the use of soft and synthetic drugs. this is the view of the vast majority of governments in the european union; this is also the firm opinion of the european parliament. some would argue, for example, that the use of ecstasy should be considered as a completely normal phenomenon in our society. this is a statement which i find difficult to support, especially in the light of the fact that ecstasy use has already caused many deaths in ireland and europe. let's be clear about one thing. the long-term effects of ecstasy use are still largely unknown. the latter is a sure cause of depression, but it may also cause memory loss and other illnesses. we cannot support the establishment of a drug culture in our society by legalising the use of soft and synthetic drugs. we must also ensure that, while the european union is doing well, we are tackling major social problems such as drug abuse in a structured and rational way. that is why funds must always be set aside to develop infrastructure for young people in disadvantaged areas who are suffering from the problem of drug abuse or who are likely to suffer from it in the future. the fight against drug abuse requires a partnership approach involving the police, social groups, voluntary organisations and local authorities. supported publications emphasizing the harm that narcotic products and synthetic drugs can cause to consumers should also be welcomed.
mr president, i am pleased to have the opportunity to speak on this very important subject. i congratulate the rapporteur for his handling of this report through three readings and lengthy negotiations with the council in the conciliation process. the final text which we will vote on tomorrow is to be welcomed as the fruit of successful negotiation. the house has made it clear from the beginning that we expect strict rules to be applied in the whole area of producing, packaging and marketing cigarettes and other tobacco products. it should be noted that 80% of first-time smokers in the eu are below the age of 18. statistics suggest very clearly that in the eu smoking kills half a million people annually. cigarette smoking is the cause of fatal diseases amongst a quarter of all smokers. smoking causes 85% of all cases of lung cancer and half of all premature deaths among life-long smokers are caused by the use of tobacco. the new regulations being proposed will be a significant step forward. member states have been attentive to the concerns expressed by parliament and have taken the most important aspects of our recommendations on board. in ireland smoking kills six times as many people per year as road accidents, work accidents, murder, drugs, suicide and aids combined. seven thousand deaths occur in ireland each year from tobacco-related illnesses and one third of these occur before the age of 65. twenty-five per cent of all heart-related diseases are caused by smoking. in conclusion, these are astonishing statistics which i am confident this parliament will continue to work to reduce.
mr president, i join in the compliments to the rapporteur for her dedication. animal feed or, more appropriately, the ingredients used in its manufacture are understandably central to the regulations governing food safety and consumer protection. this parliament and the commission have certainly burnt the midnight oil putting in place controls which must eliminate for all time the reoccurrence of bse or the dioxin scare, which has cost farmers and the food sector dearly and caused so much worry to consumers. we have learned an expensive lesson but one that marked an important turning-point in eu food production and one from which we can benefit in the long term. there is no place for dissidents in this new regime and those found in breach must be strongly disciplined. while it is not a time for apportioning blame for what has happened, i believe farmers were by and large innocent victims of sections of an unscrupulous animal-feed sector, some of which resorted to the use of sewage sludge as an ingredient in animal feed, while others continued to use illegal meat and bone meal.
mr president, in europe today, education has increased in importance beyond all recognition. in particular, lifelong learning is becoming more important to people's everyday lives, whether as regards access to opportunities to employment, or in using atm machines to get cash, or having to go on-line to get banking and other services because local public services are being closed down in an era of competition and liberalisation. that is why it is important at this juncture in the european parliament that when we speak about education we make sure that it is all-inclusive. of course, we must pay due attention to people who are at present within the formal education system, and improving the erasmus and the escola programmes and other similar programmes is vitally important. however, we must not forget that we are now in danger of creating a new class of technologically illiterate people, who will be denied access to this new, wonderful information highway and society which we are creating. so, over the next ten years – as my colleague has said – the area we should focus on is ensuring that people now in middle age are given the tools of knowledge, information and education in order to be able to live in the altered world which will be coming about. i offer my support to the reports which have been submitted. i know that the commissioner will be most innovative in bringing forward new ideas for e-learning and for education.
mr president, in discussing the broad economic policy guidelines i am particularly mindful of my own country's run-in with the commission in recent months, a situation handled badly in my opinion by both the commission and our own minister for finance. as we face a referendum on nice on 7 june next, popular opinion in ireland is one of amazement at the response to the economic miracle that has been performed. it has allowed one of the poorest, underdeveloped and most peripheral regions of the eu to catch up and surpass many of the strong economies and, to quote, 'realise our economic and social potential and ensure the welfare of our people' as our taoiseach said at the time we were voting on whether to join the then eec or not in 1972. it is not what the commission did but how it did it that i question: decisions behind closed doors, badly communicated and with no parliamentary input. please let us learn from that. i know and appreciate why commissioner solbes was concerned about what was considered an inflationary budget and at 5.6% this remains a serious concern. but the bald choice was between maintaining our social partnership and some semblance of wage stability through tax cuts at a time of exchequer plenty; and wage stability is the most important part of the irish stability programme. in a word, in a country that is in a catch-up position, the classic economic model, a one-size-fits-all economic model, is a bad fit. economic forecasting is not an exact science. nor is it within sole eu control. we are part of a global economy. it is subject also to the forces of nature, to animal and plant diseases. witness the havoc bse and foot and mouth disease have caused, even in ireland where we have had only one case of foot and mouth disease. the successful efforts to ring-fence the disease are forecasted to take over 2% of our growth this year. in the matter of economic forecasting i am increasingly concerned about the behaviour of the ecb which appears to be reduced to reading the tea-leaves in the bottom of the cup. is the ecb part of the problem or the solution? i fully support the recent reduction in interest rates to support growth, but questions have to be raised about the way the ecb decides policy and communicates it to the financial markets. in the context of statements from senior officials in recent weeks, the ecb has left itself open to accusations that it bowed to pressure from the us, or worse panicked, in the face of contradictory economic models. the way the recent reduction, only the second since the ecb was established in 1998, was handled, has seriously damaged its credibility. not for the first time i find myself questioning the competence of senior officials of the ecb, even when i agree with what they are doing. too much megaphone diplomacy, too little consideration or understanding of the impact on the markets of what they say. too much post hoc justification of the fact and about-turns in policy. we expect and demand better. perhaps the recommendation procedure should be directed towards them, commissioner, or are they subject to any checks and balances? perhaps we need after all to revisit the debate on vaccination for foot in mouth policy.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, waste from electronic and electrical equipment is now one of the fastest growing waste streams in the european union. it is estimated that this waste stream, which constitutes 4% of municipal waste today, will increase by at least 3-5% every year. electronic and electrical equipment is one of the largest known sources of heavy metals and organic pollutants in the waste stream. without proper pre-treatment, the highly toxic components can contaminate soil and groundwater, as well as pollute the air. this directive can therefore be seen as one of the basic instruments for an integrated product policy, where the whole life cycle of a product will be taken into consideration and eco-design will be promoted. the need for business to adapt to a changing agenda, taking more account of environmental concerns, is widely accepted; it is also accepted that countries and industries which innovate more quickly will end up being more competitive than those which delay. the guiding principle behind the directives is the extended producers responsibility. the objective of this is that by making producers financially responsible for their products when they become waste, an upstream effect is created, which leads to design for the environment, considering the durability, reparability or upgrading, disassembly and recycling of the product. in addition, through the eco-design, the reuse of resources and separate collection, hazardous substances contained in the waste stream are prevented from entering the environment in an uncontrolled way. the directive also applies the principle of the internalisation of external costs. the costs of disposal, – which up to now have been borne by local authorities, usually as part of waste disposal –are to be internalised and provision made for the reuse, recycling and de-manufacture of this equipment. the ultimate aim is waste prevention. the principle of manufacturer responsibility for end-of-life electrical and electronic products is not disputed. producers must be responsible for the products they bring to market. however, they can only be responsible for their individual products. we have had some debate about collective and individual systems, which the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has gone into in detail. we in the committee on industry have tabled some amendments with regard to the availability of spare parts and also to distance-selling and labelling, which we would ask the commission to take into consideration. we are also very concerned with the health and safety of workers dealing with recovery of weee and this needs to be more carefully considered than previously when transposing the directive. with regard to the restriction of hazardous substances, some members of industry say that we should focus on large equipment and not small equipment. but the concentration of hazardous substances in small equipment is up to four times higher than in large equipment. furthermore, small equipment definitely needs to be separately collected to prevent it from ending up in municipal waste, where hazardous chemicals are not controlled. in principle, the proposal to substitute lead, mercury, cadmium, etc. is welcomed. however, the committee on industry has asked for a structured review process, and i believe the commission should look very closely at this. all stakeholders should have the opportunity to submit data as the basis for an early review, including environmental and consumers' associations, because it is in all our interests that this directive works effectively. i would ask the commission to take this very much on board. the committee on industry has also asked for an exemption for lead in high-temperature melting solders and lead in glass and electronic components. this is because of the technical difficulties in providing alternatives. i have discussed this in committee with the commission and, once again, we have to look closely at the technical possibilities here.
mr president, the weee directive increases producer responsibility for current and historic domestic waste, electrical and electronic equipment from mobile phones, toasters and pcs to washing machines. this waste is growing at up to 5% per year due to technological innovation and market expansion and contains a percentage of dangerous substances that are currently finding their way into municipal landfills, obviously posing clear environmental hazards. hence, the need for the second proposed directive to reduce the risk of impact on human health and the environment of the production, use, treatment and disposal of weee. the directives deal with producer responsibility, separate collection, better treatment, reuse, recycling, costs, targets, labelling, alternatives to dangerous substances such as lead, mercury, pbb, etc., while allowing some exceptions. but let us be sure, with the proper application of the much-toted precautionary principle, that the alternatives are in fact safer from a toxicity and hazard point of view, in every respect including the ability to flame retard. have we an acceptable substitute for lead solder, for example? while i endorse both directives, i have tabled an amendment to article 15 (4) of the weee directive inserting a new subparagraph based on a similar clause in article 52 of the relatively recent ec directive 99/31 on the landfill of waste. i consider this to be as good a basis as any for taking account of the genuine and practical difficulties of certain member states in meeting the ambitious collection and recovery targets proposed in articles 44 and 62 respectively of the weee directive. important proposals such as these have to take into balanced account the significant variations in recycling infrastructure, economies of scale, demographics and geographical circumstances in certain member states. it is unrealistic and unfair to require member states with acknowledged deficiencies in recycling infrastructure and reprocessing capacity – for whatever reason – and which lack reliable data on weee arisings to achieve the same ambitious targets within specified short time frames as other member states which already have all or most of the requisite infrastructure in place. it should be borne in mind that the proposed targets are based on the state-of-the-art recycling pilot study conducted in eindhoven in the netherlands, which has the requisite infrastructure and population density. ireland, greece, portugal, not to mention the accession countries, will have definite problems with the current proposals unless amended.
in writing. - on smoking in general, i think it is very important that the eu has legislation prohibiting the marketing of any tobacco product targeted at young people. clearly, if a person chooses to smoke when he is young, it is difficult to break free of the habit later on. we all know the damage that smoking causes to health every year in the european union. it is therefore important that warnings on cigarette packs highlight the health consequences of smoking. i therefore support the key provisions of this directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products, including the following provisions: in future, public health warnings will have to appear on 30% of the front and 40% of the back of each cigarette pack. misleading terms such as "light" or "mild" that in some way try to give the impression that one cigarette is less harmful than another will also be banned. the european union will also impose a legal obligation on tobacco manufacturers to provide a list of all ingredients used in the manufacture of individual cigarettes. however, it is only one part of a wider package of legislation on tobacco which the european union will be adopting. the european union will, however, have to be more aggressive in the texts it draws up to combat smoking among adults. i fully support the implementation of wider educational programmes designed to prevent young people from starting to smoke. under the amsterdam treaty, the european parliament has the power of codecision in the field of consumer protection and public health matters. i have no doubt that parliament will use its powers under the treaty to ensure that the regulatory proposals for reducing smoking in europe in the short and medium term are rigorously implemented.
mr president, i think it encouraging that there is now a considerable consensus on the problem of alcohol abuse by young people and i certainly think that the views expressed here this afternoon should strengthen commissioner byrne's hand in dealing with the problem. it is regrettable that in our understandable concern to tackle drugs and drug-trafficking we have by and large ignored what is for many people, young and old, a serious form of addiction with immense consequences for society and in particular individuals and their families. the cost to the state in terms of health costs, loss of work days and production is in my view greater than the revenue generated from the sale of alcohol. the survey referred to by the rapporteur in this report is startling, and it certainly gives me no pleasure to see ireland at the top of that list. surveys in ireland reveal a similar and worrying trend with implications for the welfare of a generation of young people with enormous potential and opportunities. while each individual must at the end of the day take responsibility for his or her attitude to alcohol, there is in my view a need for much stronger action on the part of member state governments and on the part of the commission and this parliament as well. the targeting of young people by some manufacturers of so-called designer drinks is a case in point. a stop must be put to such activity and this parliament, with the council, should initiate strong action to deal with the matter.
mr president, i also wish to join my colleagues in thanking the committee and the rapporteur in particular for their tremendous work on this report. it is important that when we speak about young people we should recognise that we may not be the best people to understand what they want. a lot of us are past the first flush of youth and, therefore, we may not be as clued up on today's youth culture as some of us might like to believe. perhaps one of the key points or recommendations that should be in this report is that young people should be asked what they want, what pressures they suffer from and what drives them to binge drinking and abuse of alcohol. maybe we would discover that some of the issues which we think of as problems are not problems at all, and that a lot of the difficulties are due firstly to the example they are given by their parents and the older generation; secondly, the acceptability of young people drinking and, thirdly, the way social events revolve around alcohol. we also have to ensure that we do not mix the message with regard to what is moderate and what is immoderate drinking. in particular, we should ensure that information campaigns are reactive and proactive towards young people. the number of health problems, both psychological and physical, affecting young people because of alcohol abuse is enormous, as is the number of unwanted pregnancies, under-age pregnancies, violent assaults and suicides. the coroner in county mayo on the western coast of ireland said that sixty per cent of suicides or attempted suicides in that area were directly related to alcohol. therefore we should have a clear enforcement of the law, an identity card system at national level to ensure that young people do not have access to alcohol and strict enforcement and penalties for people who supply young people with drink.
mr president, i congratulate mr sturdy on his work. the reform of europe's beef regime is necessary for market balance and the restoration of consumer confidence. it must, however, be done in a manner which safeguards the interests of family farming as distinct from intensive production. reasonable margins for farmers must be central to any restructuring proposals. without farmers we will not have a beef sector. already, many farmers are leaving the sector. it is right to plan the future of europe's beef sector based on extensification and traceability. as regards trade liberalisation, i wonder what steps will be taken to protect european producers from the unfair competition from third country imports where the same rules do not apply. i have serious reservations about the individualisation of the male beef premia. it is complicated and administratively difficult. likewise on supply control, it is wrong to target the suckler herd which is the foundation of quality beef production. the proposal to set up a national purchase scheme should, in my view, be re-examined. in the present climate the storage of beef for later sale will hot help to reduce volume, and do little for consumer confidence. finally, it would be wrong to draw panic conclusions – as mr sturdy already said – on the long-term sustainability of europe's beef sector during this very depressed period resulting from the bse and foot-and-mouth crises.
is the commission concerned that its pressure on ireland and ireland's finance minister may influence the forthcoming referendum on the nice treaty? i feel that the commission should be pulling back just in case there might be bad publicity. what is the point of the citizens of ireland electing a government if its finance minister is not allowed to make his own choice? what is the point in us having a government? how far will the eu go in putting pressure on ireland in relation to public spending, because services in ireland are in an appalling situation? if we follow eu lines, it will make things even worse. we also have to look at eu economic policy and its impact on ireland in relation to interest rates, over which we no longer have any control. it is undemocratic to try to decide the economic policy for an individual member state considering that it is the citizens in that member state who elect the government to do that.
mr president, for the greens this agreement is rather different to others. as we have said here many times, our position is not against fisheries agreements in principle but more against the way in which they are negotiated and the terms arrived at. all too often there is very poor – if any – scientific understanding of the status of the stocks. there is also poor control and enforcement of eu fishing activities. negotiations do not take place in a regional context. that is why we have generally voted against them. the greenland agreement is different. it falls in the geographical zone of three international fisheries organisations: the international council for the exploration of the sea, the north west atlantic fisheries organisation, and the north east atlantic fisheries commission. these are among the most scientific regional bodies that exist. there is therefore scientific information on the status of the stocks being fished and we note with approval that the overall quantities to be fished have been reduced dramatically and are more in line with responsible fishing opportunities. both nafo and neafc also have among the best and most comprehensive programmes for control and surveillance. for that reason, this time we will support the agreement. we will also support the amendment by the liberals on the commission recovering the costs of the agreement from the ship-owners who benefit from it. this is an extremely important principle, which should be followed.
mr president, i should like to thank mrs langenhagen for her work on this. indeed she went beyond the call of duty and applied herself very sincerely to consideration of the greenland problems and the european problems. having said that, this agreement should be based on economic criteria. we should evaluate what we are buying, consider the cost of catching it and consider whether the game is worth the candle. we should not get involved in the business of giving aid and buying fish at the same time. it is not the business of our commissioner for fisheries to deal with aid to greenland. in the first place, greenland was once a member of this union. it chose to leave. we do not owe it any economic aid. if it is poor and hungry, let our people in the commission who consider such problems deal with that. we are dealing with fish. this should be a commercial activity. we should buy the fish and ensure we are getting good value. we have to consider also that we are dealing with countries that are normally weaker than we are. we must ensure that we do not exploit those countries and do not allow our fleets to damage or exploit their fishing stocks. i do not accept that we should charge the ships that specifically go there. when we buy these fish they belong to the european union and should be shared out amongst the fishermen on the same basis as all the other fish that the union controls, in order to create a balance. it does not necessarily not make sense for portuguese fishermen not to go to greenland. in relation to historic rights, 500 years ago basque fishermen went to newfoundland. fishermen from bristol went there as well and also fished around iceland. today they would not do that because the navies of these countries will not allow them to do so. historic rights are not necessarily right. generally speaking, we should apply common sense to today's problems.
madam president, you will be aware that i raised the issue at the bureau last week about a grossly intimidatory and intrusive demonstration in front of the parliament in brussels, so i was equally surprised yesterday to see exactly the same thing happening again. apparently, the courtyard of the parliament is a public space. it is under the control of the gendarmerie here in strasbourg and apparently there has been some breakdown in communications. they had not informed parliament that this demonstration was going to take place yesterday. i agree with mr van orden. everybody is entitled to their democratic point of view, but certainly it was intimidatory to both members and guests, hundreds of whom were trying to get into to parliament at the same time. so i very much hope that the administration in strasbourg will ensure that we do not have to go through that again. i make no comment on the issue that was being raised, but this is the second time that access to parliament has been impeded by the same demonstrators.
madam president, i am deeply appalled by the latest, dangerous escalation of violence in the middle east which must be ended. the question that really has to be answered is: who is going to broker an end to the violence in the middle east? i certainly welcome the active role the high representative of the eu for the common foreign and security policy is playing in the middle east. i believe that the european union can play a constructive role firstly in ending the violence in the middle east and then putting in place structures whereby peace talks can recommence between the various factions. i condemn without reservation violence from whatever quarter. it is not only a question of seeking to prevent violence by different factions in the middle east, it is primarily a question of guaranteeing that conditions can be improved in the hope that the violence ends and that negotiations can be reopened. a peaceful solution in the middle east can be achieved. it was only last summer that the israeli government and the palestinian people were negotiating on what were bottom-line issues. while i am disappointed that the peace talks in america last year did not culminate in a final peace settlement, they were not a complete failure either. issues, including the status of jerusalem, the borders of the palestinian state, the fate of jewish settlements and the right of return of palestinian refugees, were all being discussed between the two sides last year. if violence can be ended in the middle east and the conditions for the reopening of negotiations can be secured, we can once again come to a situation whereby bottom-line issues can be discussed. the european union has affirmed on a number of occasions the need to ensure that the security of the israeli and palestinian people, both collectively and individually, is always protected. in the overall context, securing peace in the middle east is going to take time. the first step in the current peace process was taken when israel and egypt concluded the peace treaty at camp david in 1979. it took another twelve years before a comprehensive peace process got under way at the madrid conference in october 1999, which enshrined the principle of exchanging land for peace. the permanent status negotiations resumed in september 1999. i would appeal to the key parties involved to strive in good faith to end the violence in the middle east and to put in place a negotiated settlement, based on the principles of existing agreements.
mr president, i listened with great interest to the long and sustained shipping metaphor of the commissioner, who can now lay claim to be a master mariner of sorts. whether it is his bulk carrier or the speedboat version that is commended by mr elles, i certainly think that the commissioner's focus on deepening the relationship and on being more strategic – even if there is argument on detail – is, in broad terms very welcome. my group subscribes to the broad detail of the resolution, so i will not rehearse the issues. i agree with the observations of colleagues about fears of a drift in certain cases towards unilateralism, some of the points about bilateral versus multilateral trade and issues about kyoto, the echelon committee, the death penalty, and so on. i want to speak a little about what our role as parliamentarians should be. we have developed both informally and formally a considerable dialogue with aspects of the legislative process in the us, but as a parliamentary process it remains sub-optimal. we need to do a lot more work on that. our unique contribution as parliamentarians to the quality of this dialogue will be in establishing a better quality of relationship, in particular with our counterparts in the us congress. it seems to me that our mission in this regard is, both in washington dc and in strasbourg and brussels, to create the playing field in which the lamys and zellecks – or others, depending on whether we are dealing with security and defence, or whatever – can actually play. because it is clear, certainly in the case of congress, that they are a major influence on the role of the us executive, and we here are a growing influence on the executive, although we still regret the pillar system that marginalises us in areas of foreign policy or in fighting crime, and so on. but there is a role here, and we need to do more work on that as a unique parliamentary contribution to the playing field in which executives can deliver the goods. in that sense, i would like to pledge my group and my time to working on that. the second point i would like to mention concerns globalisation: we have noted the sclerotic effect of either congress or ourselves legislating first and discovering that the ends do not match. we need in the global context to insist on appropriate regulation, but to try to discover as parliamentarians what it is. is it soft law or hard law? self-regulation or co-regulation? we need now to look for some degree of legislative creativity, so that there is no sclerotic dysfunction: wanting to do the right thing, but by chance arriving at another dispute. finally, we should put disputes in perspective, as the commissioner has sought to do. even bananas, boeing, beef, etc. represent no more than 2% of the flow of transatlantic trade. of course, they have a high priority, but they are not the whole story and we must focus on the whole story.
madam president, i appreciate the tactics, but would it not be more democratic if you waited until everybody came in, sat down and took part in this vote? it is the last one on our schedule today and it is not a coincidence that it has been taken out of turn.
madam president, this was an extremely important report. right across europe, the abuse of alcohol by children and adolescents is a growing problem. in ireland the level of alcohol abuse by young people has grown dramatically over the years. one of the things we need to look at is the whole advertising campaign by the alcohol industry. the alcohol industry portrays alcohol as something that is necessary to enjoy life. it portrays the abuse of alcohol as something that is acceptable in society. yet when you look at what happens in society – not just to young people but also to older people – one of the major problems we have is the abuse of alcohol, which contributes to violence in the home, violence on the streets and to serious crime. we have to address this issue. one of the best ways of addressing this is by looking at the advertising industry. for example, there is a restriction on cigarette advertising on television, yet there is no restriction on alcohol advertising on television. there is something seriously wrong here. yes, smoking damages health and causes major problems for the smoker and for passive smokers. but alcohol causes major problems throughout society, from health problems, to violence, to abuse against other people and the persons themselves. we need to consider whether it is acceptable that the alcohol industry can advertise in such a carte blanche fashion. it is completely unacceptable. we need to address this. we need proper restrictions on the advertising of alcohol. it is a drug and should be accepted and recognised as such. it should not be promoted as something that is necessary to enjoy life, because it is not.
mr president, i should like to thank the president-in-office for a very comprehensive reply, and it seems to me that everything is going to be perfect after this association agreement is concluded. i want to ask him: does the council intend to approve this association agreement if the appalling human rights abuses continue in algeria? it is all very well to have human rights agreements signed, but the reality is that no matter what efforts have been made in algeria over the years by the council and by the european union, the situation, like in turkey, has got worse instead of better. i want to ask him: is it the intention of the council to agree to the final statement on the association agreement when it arises in october or november? my own feeling is that every possible sanction should be imposed on the algerian government to ensure that human rights are respected for everyone: men, women and children.
madam president, for too long the european union has had its hands tied when it comes to fighting organised crime. in approving the setting-up of eurojust, i believe we would be adding a new weapon to take on europe's criminal organisations. organised crime in europe has been at least ten steps ahead of us, taking advantage of weaknesses in our legal and economic systems. these criminals are experts in exploiting legal provisions and jurisdictions and they have taken full advantage of our open market. the european union must no longer be a soft touch for serious crime. traditional enforcement measures are no longer enough. national prevention measures must be complemented, where necessary, by appropriate action at community level. this initiative specifies that it should include trafficking in human beings, and i wish to insist that this should also include the smuggling of illegal immigrants, prostitution rings and the sexual exploitation of children. in addition, we are talking about competence for dealing with acts of terrorism, protection of the euro, computer crime and protection of financial interests of the eu. it also extends to the laundering of proceeds of crime. today in brussels the eu forum on organised crime is holding its first meeting. the commission must keep us and the public informed of the results of such meetings. let us make it a general rule that all relevant eu policies will incorporate a crime prevention element. let us make it known that the eu programme against social exclusion can be matched by the crime prevention strategy. let us make it known that the regional fund can contribute to the national programmes, supporting initiatives to fight and prevent crime. let us make it known that the community's cooperation and assistance policies and programmes already extensively incorporate the fight against crime. let us ensure that all new legislation is crime-proof and existing legislation is evaluated. our group will be supporting this report.
in writing. -the main objective of this report is to support the strengthening of cooperation between the 15 member states of the european union to combat social exclusion. i think it is extremely important that we all work together in a spirit of cooperation to solve the problems of social exclusion in our community. in this respect, i warmly welcome the establishment of the new social protection committee, one of the changes provided for in the treaty of nice. we must give our full support to a community action programme to combat social exclusion. the european union is economically strong, but key social problems remain in many rural and urban areas. the fact is that longterm unemployment and youth unemployment are particularly concentrated in certain areas of the european union. they're concentrated in many specific black spots. the establishment of initiatives to address social exclusion and to provide opportunities for the disadvantaged in our society must be a central policy of any eu government. the principle underlying this new community action programme is the creation of an open method of coordination between member states in order to eradicate poverty and social exclusion. this will be achieved by setting specific objectives and integrating them into national action plans and by implementing policies to promote equal opportunities. the implementation of the social action programme 2000-2005 as published by the commission will also contribute to the fight against social exclusion. it will place particular emphasis on the development of plans to help the longterm unemployed and those who have left the education system prematurely. member states will also support programmes for job creation, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. the coordination of programmes in the field of the information society, modern telecommunications services and internet-related activities will also be improved. we do not want to build a two-speed europe or a europe of the haves and have-nots. it is essential to enable unskilled people to participate in education and training programmes. it is equally essential to ensure that workers are re-trained at their place of work. partnership is always fundamental and consultation between all the parties concerned is very important if we want to solve problems of social exclusion as quickly as possible.
in writing. - many children born today will live to 120 years or more. that is the conclusion reached by the scientific community, both in the united states and in the european union. that's a fact. men are living longer. they lead healthier lives. they know what foods to eat to lead a healthy life. in short, men are living longer. many people retire at 55 and it is a fact that the governments of the union will have to revise the structures in order to guarantee the payment of pensions to civil servants in the future. similarly, those in the private sector will have to pay much more attention to their pension plans. i welcome the study by merrill lynch, one of the largest banks in the united states, which shows that ireland is leading the european league in terms of the sustainability of pension payments. every year, it devotes 1% of its gdp to the so-called national pension reserve fund to guarantee the payment of pensions for its civil servants after 2025. now we are contributing some 600 to 700 million pounds a year to feed this fund. i also think it is important that we encourage good savings schemes in our countries, but also that we ensure that people retire at an older age. i know that the union's leaders have recently discussed this at their meeting in stockholm. it is the responsibility of all governments in the european union to enact laws to ensure that public service pensions are paid in the future and to promote good pension schemes in the private sector. if that means giving taxpayers more tax breaks to encourage them to take out pensions in the private sector, so be it.
madam president, i wanted to bring up the issue of a very important meeting which took place yesterday with justice and home affairs ministers, where agreement was made in relation to people’s privacy and their right to privacy, their fundamental rights in access to telecommunications. this is what is called enfopol 29. it has never been discussed in this parliament. there was a discussion on enfopol 98 about re-writing international user requirements, but this is very different. it is interpreting the existing requirements and how they will be used within the eu. it is completely unacceptable that far-reaching decisions have been taken by the council of justice and home affairs ministers when there has been no debate in this parliament on the subject. these decisions will affect us all and will affect everybody outside this parliament: people will not have the right to privacy, and this is an issue that should be raised right across the board. it is a fundamental rights issue. (applause from the verts/ale group)
mr president, madam president-in-office, commissioner, my group shall support the work of the rapporteurs and i congratulate them on its elegant balance. it is entirely appropriate at this stage that the european parliament does not express a definitive view on the qualities of the treaty of nice, because we recognise – as the treaty itself does – that more needs to be done. we want to be active persuaders and influencers in doing more, hence our commitment to the convention idea. i am very pleased to hear the president-in-office's positive remarks in that regard. you have talked also about factoring in both the national dimension and the wider public debate. i hope i am not listening to the creation of a convention, which will be a sort of pub with no beer. we would actually like to see these things incorporated in a way that it would be vigorous and representative of a wider opinion. in my country, the republic of ireland, in eight days time, there is a referendum on the treaty of nice, unique among the 15 member states. in the run-up there has been a very active anti-campaign on three broad themes: anti to say that it is not necessary to say "yes" to nice for enlargement; anti to say that the reforms with regard to qualified majority and the role of smaller states go too far; and anti regarding the so-called militarisation of the eu. normally i do not engage in national politics, but today it is for a european reason that i want to state clearly for the record of the house that to vote "yes" to nice in ireland is to vote to remove the last formal obstacle to a significant enlargement. in good conscience, i ask people to vote yes and i myself, in good conscience, shall vote yes. it is a "yes" to make sure that we meet the political conditions agreed in helsinki that we in the eu should be ready, no later than the end of 2002, for this historic journey towards enlargement. a "yes" vote is a vote to reunite europe. i urge my fellow citizens in ireland to take that into account. there are plenty of criticisms to make of nice with regard to qualified majority and the role of smaller states, but for people who are fair-minded and rational, none of the criticisms should be that it went too far. the problem with nice is how much more was left to be done. anyone who argues the opposite is playing to the gallery of populism, rather than dealing with substance and fact. finally, on the argument about militarisation: as a irishman it makes me sick in the pit of my stomach to listen to lectures from mr adams and other people in sinn féin who today still maintain an armed ceasefire in northern ireland, who refuse to decommission weapons, and who, prior to their entry into a peace process, sullied the name of irishmen through a campaign of murder and terror for three decades. it is a travesty for these people to describe the one great peace movement of europe, which is the european integration process, as heading towards militarisation. these people are themselves still incomplete democrats. we should not accept lectures from them on this topic. general morillon, here this afternoon, served at srebrenica and other places with dignity, despite having a very difficult and effectively impossible un mandate. we know that nato and the us would not act and did not act. we, the eu, could not act. if not nato there was nothing. we have a moral and ethical duty to ensure we are prepared for such missions in future with the likes of the rapid reaction force. this represents responsibility and maturity in europe, not militarisation. again people in ireland should not listen to those who preach about militarism, for this is a false premise. (applause)
mr president, president-in-office of the council, commission, the european union leaders when they met in nice last december to review existing treaties had one single objective in mind: they sought to change the internal decision-making procedures within the institutions of the union to guarantee that enlargement of the european union could take place. i believe the treaty of nice is a balanced agreement which guarantees the go-ahead to the enlargement process whilst at the same time protecting and promoting the entries of the smaller member states. the treaty of nice does not build a two-tier european union whereby larger member states can dictate the pace of change within the union at the expense of the smaller states. there will not be a fundamental shift in the balance of power within the union as a result of the enactment of the provisions of the treaty. the european union will remain a union of peoples and states. all member states within the union will retain the right to appoint one member to the commission until 27 countries become full members of the union, and even at that stage, positions in the commission will be distributed between all members on a rotation basis. decisions concerning key national entries will remain the exclusive domain of individual member state governments, and any changes concerning taxation policies or social security matters will be left to individual countries to decide on. the unanimity requirement for tax changes remains the order of the day within the union. this is very important, because i believe that issues of taxation should be addressed by national parliaments and not decided centrally by the european union. enlargement of the union will promote and consolidate democratic structures in eastern and central europe. it will help to strengthen new free-market economies of these countries, and it will contribute to making these countries more competitive. the enlargement process provides the basis for a truly historic reconciliation on a continent which has been divided over the past century by wars and ideologies. it is incumbent on all of us to grasp the opportunities which are before us to help build a more stable european continent at peace with itself. we are all aware in this house that a constitutional referendum on the treaty of nice is being held in ireland next week. the treaty is certainly a good deal for countries of central and eastern europe, but equally for existing member states of the union. there is no doubt that the operation of the internal market has been a success, particularly over the last ten years, and from an irish perspective economic success in our country could simply not have been achieved if we were not a member of the union.
mr president, there has been severe criticism of the treaty of nice, not just here in this house, but throughout europe. the kind of late-night dealing and smoke-filled rooms that finalised the treaty was the unacceptable face of the eu and it is not worthy of a union of 350 million people. the focus should be accountability and democracy, but nice was a shambles with the outcome for ireland that we lose our automatic right to a commissioner. i believe ireland will vote "no" on 7 june in spite of the sneers of some elites here and elsewhere and that result will be welcomed all over europe. the treaty of nice allows a core group of member states to form an elite inner circle. they have hijacked the eu institutions and this will mean that some states become second class members including the new applicant countries. we need an accountable europe that makes human rights a core value and brings progress on social and environmental rights also. the eu, which brought former enemies together for peaceful cooperation, is now being militarised. the treaty of nice could mean that a number of member states could decide to go ahead with a nuclear-armed force even though other states do not agree. that should be unthinkable.
mr president, the enlargement process is the bridge from the old europe to the new. the debate that we are having today and the report that we are discussing is a first step in that process. it is important, however, that we do not allow ourselves to become prisoners of old ideas. despite our misgivings about one aspect or the other of this report, we should be brave enough to give the leadership that the people of europe expect from this parliament, the elected representatives of the people of europe. this report does not close off any options. it does not seek to give a view on the ratification of nice. that is being left to the member states whose responsibility it is. i happen to be campaigning in ireland for a "yes" vote but it is a critical "yes". i have my criticisms of the treaty of nice, but it is important that we be brave enough to say, "of course, we have problems, but it is important that the enlargement process gets under way". most importantly in the debate about the future of europe is the kind of europe we want: do we want a democratically participative europe, do we want a socially inclusive europe? if we do, it will not happen by accident. we must get involved in the debate, we have to persuade people here and in our own member states. we must provide not only a forum at european level through a convention, but also ensure that there are fora in every member state, so that people in each member state can talk and debate with each other with other people in europe.
mr president, the irish referendum on the treaty of nice is taking place at a defining moment in our relationship with the european union. before the end of this decade, instead of being a major beneficiary of eu funding, we will become a net contributor to the eu budget. fortunately, this is not having any significant impact on the attitude of irish voters to the treaty of nice. unlike the spanish and italian governments, irish citizens are not being selfish about the effects of enlargement on our future share of structural and cohesion funding. instead there is the positive recognition that we have an obligation to assist the fledgling democracies in the former communist countries. nevertheless, they have real fears about aspects of the treaty. they are particularly concerned that the traditional, consensual, decision-making process of the eu is being abandoned in favour of a system whereby larger member states will exercise power at the expense of smaller countries. they are also worried that enhanced cooperation could create a first and second-class citizenship within the eu. furthermore, the establishment of the rapid reaction force under the amsterdam treaty has worried some people that it will bring to an end ireland's military neutrality. i do not share these concerns, but irish citizens need assurance in these points, not only in the context of this debate, but also with regard to long-term irish interests within the eu. if they want to maintain irish influence in europe, and especially the respected reputation that we have painstakingly built up over the years, the best way of achieving this is to ratify the treaty of nice: to reject it is to reject enlargement and unravel the process. however, no one can afford to be complacent about the outcome of the irish referendum. bearing in mind that voters will be going to the polls in both britain and ireland next thursday, it would be somewhat ironic, indeed tragic, if we were to witness a massive rejection of euro-scepticism in britain while at the same time it gained significant ground in ireland. in conclusion, i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs, mr méndez de vigo and mr seguro, for their excellent report.
commissioner, president-in-office of the council, it is not and can never be a choice between employment or the environment. wealth, growth, enterprise and development need not, and do not, consume the environments of mature societies. on the contrary, it may be observed that there is a clear relationship between the quality of the environment and the wealth of a nation. throughout the eu and north america recent years have seen dramatic reversals in the pollution of air and water due to technological improvements driven by legislation and societal expectations. in the same period there have been profound increases in the extent and quantity of habitats and natural resources that are formally recognised and protected. the infrastructure, organisation and technology that are needed for a cleaner environment are all achievable because of the wealth and surpluses of the local economies. significant environmental pollution of air and water and the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources have become characteristic of the early stages of developing industrial economies, as they were once with us. environmental protection requires surpluses, education and vision together with institutional maturity and stability. a strong lobby in favour of environmental protection is a good and necessary part of any mature democratic society. we must be committed to ensuring the widest range of opinions and values, and that they are nurtured, expressed and considered because debate can only increase knowledge and improve the quality of decisions. likewise, environmental orthodoxies must be constantly scrutinised and re-evaluated to ensure that the protection required is proportionate and effective. environmental scaremongering hampers open debate by inflating a stateable risk, for example the presence of a toxin, so that it becomes an inaccurately perceived threat, for example by failing to acknowledge that the quantity of the toxin falls significantly below any threatening dose. i believe that great sensitivity, tolerance and compassion must be employed whenever it is proposed to employ the environmental standards of a developed economy to the economies and environments of emerging economies. the eu’s history has shown that localised overloading of environmental carrying capacity can be a temporary phase of an emerging economy. we need to acknowledge ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the report presented to us today by my colleague, mr ribeiro e castro, is comprehensive in its analysis of the activities of eures over the period 1998 to 1999 and constructive in relation to the proposal he makes for the future activities of this network. i commend him for the extensive work he has put into the preparation and completion of this report and i share his view that we need to stress the important role of eures network, as a means of implementing european employment strategy. eures job offers went from 43 000 at the start of 1998 to 166 000 at the beginning of 2000. the number of placements obtained to eures, rose from 26 449 in 1998 to 44 460 in 1999: that is an increase of more than 68% in one year and the potential for more placement is much greater. this is just another example of the many qualitative examples of the eu at work for citizens. membership of the european union has brought enormous benefits to ireland. the fact that we have come close to full employment is a practical example of what is achievable. i am confident our people will give practical recognition to this fact when they vote next week on the nice treaty. we want to share the benefits of eu membership with our neighbours from central and eastern europe: to do otherwise would be to reject the concept and spirit of the rome treaty. let us not forget their courage and sacrifice in safeguarding freedom and democracy. this objective surely outweighs other minor or contrived objections to nice. one of the key functions of eures is to make information available on current job vacancies in the member states. yesterday evening, i logged on to the website and there were 7 197 vacancies listed. looking at the first 200 vacancies, the range of jobs is extensive. vacancies in ireland, for example, include: accounts assistants, building administrators and sales and reservations. so for all of the reasons, it is very obvious that this eures programme has enormous potential. again, i compliment and congratulate my colleague, mr ribeiro e castro, on his very extensive and constructive approach to this important report.
mr president, i voted against this report on the nice treaty, but i found it ironic that my colleagues from the main political establishment parties in ireland, who criticised the no-campaign in ireland saying we have no grounds for criticism, endorsed a report today which is extremely critical of the nice treaty. at home they say one thing and out here they do something very different. i also find it quite alarming that this treaty basically endorses the whole concept of a european constitution which is something that has not been debated in the national parliaments. in fact, in ireland when we bring this issue up during the referendum process, we are told that it is not going to happen. it is quite clear today that this is going happen and there needs to be a bit more honesty with the people. it is rather disturbing that we had the swedish prime minister, coming here yesterday urging a "yes" vote. people are trying to put pressure on ireland to say that if do not vote "yes" we will be stopping enlargement when this is not the case. the kind of europe the nice treaty proposes is far more detrimental to the eastern european countries, because it divides europe. we should be looking for a europe that is not divided into first and the second-class tiers.
in writing. - i was present, but i did not participate in the vote. i would like to publicly declare my support for the treaty of nice. however, in the context of the referendum which will take place in ireland next week, i do not think it would be appropriate to take part in this vote, as it goes beyond the text of the treaty itself. i welcome the ratification of the treaty. the other issues raised should be addressed later. i support the enlargement of the eu. the adoption of this treaty will remove the last obstacle to this development.
in writing. - with all due respect to the rapporteur, mr méndez de vigo, i voted against the report on the treaty of nice today; however, this does not mean a 'no' to europe. the irish people have not had a proper debate on the implications of the proposed changes in the treaty of nice for the sovereignty and independence of ireland. no decision on the treaty is to be taken before the end of 2002. yet the government is pressing the irish people to vote, even though they have had only about three weeks to assimilate the minimum information provided to them. the irish electorate has a right to know what the consequences of the treaty are for the irish people and for europe as a whole, including the applicant countries. a recent national poll shows that nine out of ten irish people do not understand the treaty of nice and that voter indifference is extremely high. i am sure that this situation is reflected in other member states, and it is certainly not the way in which citizens will feel politically involved at local, national and european level. the treaty of nice raises many concerns for a small nation. some of them are: ireland cannot be part of the enhanced cooperation because of its policies on corporate taxation and energy; the future loss of the veto, the only sure way for a small country to influence decisions and protect its interests; the european union is also facing a threat to ireland's neutrality in an increasingly militarised europe, which the treaty of nice provides for an army, called the rapid reaction force, associated with nato and, for the first time, a military command structure within the eu. there are also deep concerns about a charter of fundamental rights which it is clear that there is an intention to make legally binding in 2004, in the form of a constitution or constitutional treaty which could take precedence over our irish constitution and our courts through the decisions of the court of justice of the european communities. our constitution is a carefully crafted document and enshrines the values and convictions that have sustained the people of ireland through the best of times and the worst of times. it is, among other things, about the constitutional protection of life, marriage and the family and should not be subject to decisions made without the full and informed consent of the irish people. unfortunately, the christian foundations and heritage of the european union shine through in their absence of the charter. the european union is a great power, a great nation, a great nation, and it is not just a nation, but a great power.
in writing. - as a member of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, i hope that the us government and the european union can reach an appropriate agreement that will ensure a sustainable reduction in the level of greenhouse gases. the fact is that the higher the use of greenhouse gases, the greater the impact on climate change, which in turn will have devastating effects on coastal and island communities, not only in europe, but all over the world. i am well aware of the european union's preparations for the world summit on sustainable development to be held in south africa in 2002. i support the four lines of action developed by the european commission in preparation for this world summit. the european union's objective will be to protect natural resources, the basis of economic development, to strive to promote environmental efficiency, to promote the sustainable use of water bodies and energy, and to ensure that the vicious circle of poverty and environmental degradation is broken. i am also pleased that the european commission has recognised that the best approach to ensure that these measures are successful will best be agreed within the united nations framework. ten years after the crucial summit in rio de janeiro, expectations have not been met. environmental pressures have increased, and poverty continues to spread around the world. we must all redouble our efforts to ensure that next year's summit meets the challenge of ensuring that development is sustainable and protects existing communities. the fifth community environment action programme protects citizens from the harmful effects of air pollution. since it is clear that the long-term objective set by the fifth environment action programme will not be easily achieved, the commission has rightly decided to adopt a phased approach setting so-called mid-term environmental objectives for 2010. in this respect, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy will continue to play an important coordinating role.
in writing. - as a member of the european parliament, i hope that the united states government and the european union can reach an adequate agreement to ensure a sustainable reduction in the level of greenhouse gases. the fact is that the higher the use of greenhouse gases, the greater the impact on climate change, which in turn will have devastating effects on coastal and island communities, not only in europe, but all over the world. i am well aware of the european union's preparations for the world summit on sustainable development to be held in south africa in 2002. i support the four lines of action developed by the european commission in preparation for this world summit. the european union's objective will be to protect natural resources, the basis of economic development, to strive to promote environmental efficiency, to promote the sustainable use of water bodies and energy, and to ensure that the vicious circle of poverty and environmental degradation is broken. i am also pleased that the european commission has recognised that the best approach to ensure that these measures are successful will best be agreed within the united nations framework. ten years after the crucial summit in rio de janeiro, expectations have not been met. environmental pressures have increased, and poverty continues to spread around the world. we must all redouble our efforts to ensure that next year's summit meets the challenge of ensuring that development is sustainable and protects existing communities. the fifth community environment action programme protects citizens from the harmful effects of air pollution. since it is clear that the long-term objective set by the fifth environment action programme will not be easily achieved, the commission has rightly decided to adopt a phased approach setting so-called mid-term environmental objectives for 2010.
madam president, i should like to say that it is a decision made by the irish people, whether we like it or not, and i do not particularly like it. i want to say to the eurosceptics in this house and throughout europe that, whether they like it or not, that decision was made in good faith. at the same time it ill-behoves those anti-europeans to dance on the grave of the eastern european nations that are so anxious to join the european union and to join us in this house. the irish people are a generous people. we have accepted great support from the european union since we joined it and we are prepared to give back a great deal of what we received. confusion, however, was spread at a great rate by the fundamentalists of the left, by the fundamentalists of the right, by the cranks in the middle; and the truth was not properly sold. let me say to the commission and to the others that in future we must make these treaties simple and comprehensible to the european people; but do not blame the irish people for making a truly democratic decision. we must now reflect on that decision, each and every one of us in this house and throughout the european union. it was a decision made in good faith. (applause)
madam president, i canvassed and voted in favour of the nice referendum in ireland and was disappointed with the result, but, i hasten to add, i fully accept the democratic decision taken by the electorate in my country. the will of the irish people must be respected. we should not rush into a debate. it is time for reflection and analysis. a debate at this time would only suit the many members in this house who are opposed to giving the eastern and central europeans the opportunity to share in the economic growth we are enjoying in the european union. clarification is undoubtedly necessary. let there be no ambiguity: the irish people are a generous people. they have a social conscience and favour enlargement. this matter will be resolved within ireland; we do not need any interference from outside, from members of this house, whether they are for it or against it. the irish people will resolve their own problems. any future debate here should follow the debate in our own country.
madam president, one thing that makes my heart very glad is to hear the last unreconstructed tory of the seventeenth century agree at last that freedom is a good thing for ireland. (laughter and applause)i extend the hand of friendship to roger. i welcome his conversion. i say to him – because he does not have a great understanding of history – that historically, a ‘tory’ means somebody who is hunted: ‘tóraidhe’, a hunted one. i am beginning to think that roger and those of his political party are feeling a little bit that way since last weekend. the tóraidhe were anglo-irish people who were expelled from their land on account of their religion. they refused to go and were loyal to the king. i hope that roger is enlightened now. i certainly hope that we have bridged the gap between us. edmund burke, a great british parliamentarian, said: "all that is necessary for evil to triumph is that good people do nothing". evil triumphed last weekend, not in the person of those people who went out and mistakenly voted for the wrong side, but of those who told them lies and deceived them. they are the people who cadged money from abroad in the interests of breaking up the solidarity of the people of europe and spent it to tell lies to the irish people, while the irish government – and, unfortunately, the opposition – were so complacent that we thought everybody would trust us. i want the people of this house to know that every major newspaper supported a ‘yes’ for eastern europe. i want this house to know that a large number of the people who voted ‘no’ believed that they were doing no damage to the interests of the eastern european countries. i have one disagreement with my colleagues mr andrews and mr gallagher about the generosity and special merits of the people of ireland. i believe we are different. we have a slightly different culture and a very different history. yet we are the same as everybody else here. we have good people and bad people. we accept democracy nevertheless, because it is the only way. as the jacobites said after the battle of the boyne, "change kings and we will fight you over again", and i believe we will win the next time.
mr president, this is a very important report and a significant step forward. like the rest of the house, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. it is through working together at eu and international level that we can do something important for children, who must be protected from such crimes. i fully endorse the proposal that depictions of persons under the age of 18 involved in sexually explicit conduct constitute the sexual exploitation of children. in my view this is compatible with the convention of the rights of the child. the sexual exploitation of children, including child pornography on the internet, in any form, is abhorrent. as the commission points out, tens of thousands of human beings – especially women and children – are trafficked for exploitative purposes each year. none of our countries can claim to be free of these threats. none of our countries can halt these acts on their own. none of our countries should hesitate about signing up to closer cooperation in the fight against such crimes. the european union has not been ignoring this worrying phenomenon. we have spoken about it many times in parliament: in 1997 the council joint action to combat trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children paved the way for member states to review the relevant criminal law so as to ensure the criminalisation of certain behaviours and to encourage judicial cooperation. the new proposal brings us a further step forward by hopefully ensuring that each member state will take the necessary measures to guarantee that facilitating or in any way profiting from child prostitution or child pornography is penalised, including by terms of imprisonment of not less than four years. furthermore, we are calling on each member state to ensure that convictions for such crimes are subject to the tracing, seizure and confiscation of all moveable and immovable assets representing the proceeds of those crimes. finally, i fully support the compromise agreement reached by our committee on article 5(4). the maximum penalty of not less than eight years should apply in the case of child pornography and aiding and abetting such crimes, including the exploitation of children, when they involve a child below the age of 16.
mr president, i was in parliament in the summer of 1995 when the appalling crimes of mr dutroux were exposed. it was as a direct result of the horror expressed in this parliament at those dreadful crimes that we began on the path we are still moving along now towards improving legislation for the protection of children. i should like to congratulate both our colleagues on their excellent reports. i would also like to express my great regret that six years after those heinous crimes were exposed, this man has still not been brought to justice. that perhaps demonstrates that the extent of the crimes was unbelievable to us at the time and that the law was not adequate to deal with them. yet it remains an absolute disgrace that this man has not yet been brought to justice. i should like to make a few technical remarks about the report. the strong transnational dimension of the problem requires the establishment of high standards of community law in relation to child sexual exploitation, standards that also apply to the ceec countries where the problems are even greater than within the union. the age of consent varies between countries: 13 years in spain and the netherlands, 17 years in northern ireland and in the republic of ireland. so a child abuser can move quite easily between countries where the legislation provides for a lower age of consent. they can do this purely to avoid criminal sanctions. this also presents a considerable obstacle to developing common standards and comparative data protection. article 5(1) of the commission text proposes that the penalties for abusing a child under the age of 10 years should be more severe. we reject this because any abuse of children is a criminal offence. finally, acquisition and possession of child pornography with the aim of handing it over to the law enforcement authorities should be made an offence. it is a criminal offence to own this pornography, and very often the people using it are only pretending they are collecting it for the police. i do not think we can believe that.
mr president, in relation to bse, dioxins and concern about the safety of gm foods, this house has been vigilant and responsive to consumer concerns. in this regard i compliment commissioner byrne – who is responsible for this specific area – and commissioner fischler. i also extend my compliments to mr whitehead on the thoroughness of his report. the publication of the commission white paper on food safety and the proposed establishment of a european food authority marks a new era in food production. from now on every link in the food chain will become an integral part of the production process. the end result should put beyond doubt the quality and safety of all food products, and provide the assurances consumers have been seeking and to which they are entitled. europe has a rapidly growing food sector. the process of adding value to basic agricultural products is supplying consumers with a wide range of quality food. new research in this area will contribute significantly to its future development. as employment in the processing sector continues to increase, this welcome development contrasts sharply with the serious decline in family farming and the reluctance of young people to take up farming as a career. you may say that this point is not relevant to this debate, but i put it to the house that unless we can ensure the conformity, viability and profitability of the production base of europe's food sector, we are unlikely to reach the standards to which we aspire. in this regard the unique role of farmers as guarantors of food security and quality is far too often taken for granted. the commission proposals concerning the development of food legislation and food safety are positive. in order to ensure food safety, the whole food chain must be flawless and its supervision comprehensive. i fully agree that food must be traceable through all stages of the food chain, from farm to table. in conclusion, in our anxiety to safeguard the consumer interest – our main objective – we must also ensure that agriculture is allowed to benefit from the advances in modern technology.
mr president, food safety and public health are rarely out of the headlines and are key political priorities for all of us in europe. today's proposal aims to clarify the eu-wide general principles of food law and i would like to compliment the rapporteur, mr whitehead, both on his excellent report and on the consensual style with which he has carried out his duties in the committee on the environment. i also welcome commissioner byrne. the integrity of a european food authority will be based on independence and strong scientific leadership in the field of food safety. we must be able to trust those who set out to advise us: farmers, fishermen, food manufacturers, processors, retailers, government, consumer advisory groups, scientists and ultimately the food safety authority. we must be able to trust them. it is essential that we have a body of science as a reference point, whether we are consumers, policy-makers or even contributors to the food chain, and that we know what is an acceptable balance between risk prevention and informed consumer choice. it is all about balance. i would like briefly to refer to some of amendments that i have tabled to this commission proposal and i hope they will be accepted here. when we talk about the requirements for food safety it is imperative that we also talk about the responsibility of food producers for this food chain. the commission has omitted from the legislative text the key first link in the food chain: the farmer or the fisherman. i have tabled amendment no 72 to article 40 which deals with responsibility of farmers for food safety and adds a force majeure defence for phenomena over which farmers have no personal control, for example natural disasters and major environmental pollution. this is not, however, to diminish the primary role of farmers in ensuring the safety of their produce. i also firmly believe that for the fa to have the confidence and backing of the people of europe it is imperative that it operates and communicates in a wholly transparent and independent manner. risk communication will be a key element of the fa. one only has to look at the bse inquiry in the uk and the lord phillips report which stated that breakdown in risk communication was a major factor in exacerbating the crisis there. i have tabled amendments nos 147 and 148 to article 39 in an effort to ensure that the authority explains its scientific risk assessments to this house, to consumers, to businesses and the academic community. the authority should also meet regularly with the commission and the council in order to explain the risk assessments to these bodies and help them make more informed risk management decisions. in conclusion, in relation to risk management, the measured and proportionate use of the precautionary principle is a key principle when europe deals with food scares. i welcome the commission's balanced proposals on this issue.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of two reports calling for increased cooperation between member states on the twin scourges of sexual exploitation of children and human trafficking. the klamt and karamanou reports are related in that they seek to harmonise definitions of sexual exploitation. they call for a common definition and enforcement of penalties in the area of pornography, at a time when the internet has allowed sexual exploitation to transcend all borders. it is a terrible thing that the european continent, whose inhabitants like to describe themselves as socially savvy, still has slavery and exploitation. it is essential that proposals calling for harsh penalties for those found guilty of sexual exploitation and trafficking are carried through. i call on the irish government to make clear its position on these matters before decisions are taken in the council.
mr president, the main thrust of this directive is to set targets for the levels of ozone which will be permitted in ambient air within the european union. this directive is part of an overall package which is being implemented by the european union at this time to comply with the obligations under the kyoto accord. we can all recall that the kyoto accord sets down a timetable for the reduction in the level of the use of greenhouse gases. the us president, mr bush, has already stated that he wants to renegotiate the kyoto accord. this is highly regrettable because, in the eyes of many, it is felt that the targets set by the kyoto accord will not even achieve the goal of substantially reducing the use of greenhouse gases. the clear scientific evidence is that climate change is real, is happening now, and will get worse. emissions from the developed world are the primary reason for global warming. developed countries must take the first meaningful steps in reducing emissions. the european union is determined to play its part in reaching our targeted 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions below 1990 levels over this decade. we are all aware that president bush is due to meet the european union leaders in göteborg this week. i hope that the us president will come up with a firm proposal to outline how his administration intends to reduce the level of greenhouse gases in the immediate future. there is unequivocal scientific evidence about the damage which has been done to many communities as the ozone layer is being depleted. extensive production of greenhouse gases is resulting in the depletion of the ozone layer which, in turn, is resulting in higher sea levels, contributing to greater coastal erosion, greater flooding and the elimination of many of our island communities. we have a moral obligation to ensure not only that the quality of life of present communities is protected, but that the quality of life of future communities is protected also. that is why it is so important that we all guarantee that we reduce the level of greenhouse gas emissions in europe, the united states of america and elsewhere so as to achieve our objective in this regard. i congratulate mr davies on his excellent report.
mr president, commissioner, in october 2000, in seoul asem leaders gave a commitment to support human rights, democracy and the rule of law, as a cornerstone of future asia/europe cooperation. however, our own actions rarely live up to our promises. in the past, too many member states have paid lip-service to the idea, but where there is a choice between trade and defence of human rights, economic self-interest has always taken precedence. furthermore, where a small country is involved, we have been quick to criticise, but when the offender is a large country, such as china, our response has been much more muted and i very much welcome commissioner patten's recent remarks in this regard. therefore, i support the proposal contained in paragraph 10 of the report which calls for any state to be excluded which clearly fails to respect human rights, democracy and the rule of law from asem activities. i also welcome the proposal for the political pillar of asem to encourage political dialogue in several areas, including between china and taiwan. if we want to play a role in this and want to be seen as honest brokers, then all member states should follow the recommendation of this report and grant visas to the taiwanese president and members of the government for private visits to the eu. i welcome the reference to resolving the conflict in sri lanka given my recent involvement in this area as head of the eu electoral observation mission. over 70 000 sri lankans have died in this conflict since 1973 and any initiative to prevent further loss of life would be very worthwhile. to conclude these brief remarks, i commend the brok report to the house.
mr president, i welcome the galeote report. it is quite appropriate that we should be reforming the commission's foreign delegations and examining how they can perform in a much more efficient way, hopefully in the context of a much more coherent common foreign and security policy. in that context i would like to make some very brief points. firstly, with regard to my own experience with the commission's delegation offices when i was in sri lanka, it was excellent to have it as a backup. it was very helpful to us in discharging our work and coordinating the various eu ambassadors in that area. in some other experiences i have had with the commission's external offices i sometimes felt that they can get too close to the local political administration and are somewhat reluctant to take a strong stance on policy and political issues. it must be made absolutely clear that any of our delegation offices are there not simply to have a cosy relationship with the local administration but to represent eu policy in the wider sense. my third point, and i am sure it has already been made by my colleague, georg jarzembowski, is whether the commission would respond positively to our repeated request for the establishment of a delegation office in taiwan. we have pussyfooted on that issue for far too long. we should have the courage of our convictions and i hope that the commissioner would respond positively to the proposal that there should be an office in taiwan sooner rather than later.
mr president, i wish to put on record my thanks to the minister for his willingness to engage with parliament every question time and for his part-answer to my question. as with all of these questions, the real substance is hidden elsewhere within the question. in particular, i would like his views on the reflections of the europol expert who said that there was no effective cooperation or coordination because of a series of political, legislative and judicial problems. i thank him for his response with regard to the chemical industry and also to the agreements established in central america, the caribbean and latin america and the forthcoming agreement with asia. but internally, within the borders of the european union, there are continuing difficulties with regard to cooperation and coordination. i would like a response on that. i would like to take the questions on behalf of mr andrews, mr hyland and mr fitzsimons, who are at an ongoing constitutional affairs committee meeting.
madam president, president-in-office, president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the liberal democrat group i should like to begin by acknowledging and congratulating the minister on the considerable number of actual results achieved by the swedish presidency already, even before it formally concludes its work. in particular, you are to be congratulated on the work and enthusiasm that you have put into the enlargement issue. your approach has been a breath of fresh air and will, i hope, reassure the candidate countries that we are indeed serious about this issue and have demonstrated as much during the swedish presidency. i also acknowledge and salute the defence which you, together with the european commission, have mounted on the climate-change issue. it is important that, in the transatlantic dialogue, we continue to champion the values and the desire for sustainability that we all share and believe in. your personal efforts and the work with the high representative, commissioner patten and others, particularly in macedonia, where the situation remains so explosive and difficult, show impressive commitment towards pressing ahead with a common foreign and security policy. all of these areas and, of course, the work you have undertaken with the european parliament on enhancing transparency, should be recognised as matters of importance and substance. i acknowledge, of course, as you have reported, the heightened anxieties of the representatives of the candidate countries following the irish "no" to nice. it is very important for me to state here today, particularly as an irish european, that whatever the complex set of motives and reasons behind it, the "no" to nice did not signify a "no" to enlargement. neither the "no" campaign nor the "yes" campaign made an issue of enlargement. indeed, it could be helpful before göteborg – if it has not already done so – for the irish "no" campaign as a whole to issue a single joint statement making it clear that their "no" campaign was not pushing for a "no" to enlargement. i would encourage the minister to continue working towards a reassuring timetable in göteborg. perhaps the shock of the irish result will motivate those who a week or two ago were wondering whether this was necessary. it has become more necessary now to reassure, act and deliver on the enlargement agenda. with regard to the irish result, i should like to make one or two detailed comments. members may be interested to learn that 50 000 fewer people in the irish electorate voted "no" to nice than voted "no" to amsterdam. the number of "no" voters in ireland has not grown. the critical question in ireland is this: why did those who would normally have voted "yes" stay at home? that is a serious issue. yet the number of "no" votes was smaller than before, not larger, and so in this regard we should retain a sense of proportion. i welcome the fact that the irish government is now going to establish a national forum on europe to encourage everyone to reflect sensibly on the challenge, the message and the means of reconnecting people with the european vision. after that there will eventually be a second referendum. it is important that we have this period of deep reflection. i take note of what has been said in the general affairs council, namely that the council will continue with the ratification process. indeed, paradoxically, the danish instrument of ratification of nice will be lodged in rome today; the french, as we have heard, have also ratified the treaty. i hope that in göteborg the council will find the wisdom lacking in the statement of the general affairs council to include the european commission in the search for a way forward. in ireland the commission is regarded as an honest broker – someone who can always help when there are delicate textual and substantial political issues to be considered. in conclusion, the real message that must emerge from göteborg before all others – the first among equals of messages – should be clearly addressed to the candidate countries, and say: we are ready to do business. i would ask the president-in-office to continue to champion this issue and emphasise it consistently in göteborg, especially with a view to enabling the irish to say "yes" to enlargement there. (applause)
madam president, president-in-office of the council, president of the commission, it is with great pleasure that i offer my congratulations to the swedish presidency on the tremendous successes it has achieved on behalf of us all. the european leaders in göteborg will address two primary subjects, namely the enlargement of the european union and how best to solve many of our environmental problems. with regard to enlargement, it is most important that the european union and the applicant countries get down to negotiating the more difficult chapters, which to date have remained closed. it is in the interest of all the contracting parties that the bottom-line issues that remain outstanding are debated, resolved and finalised. i would like to make a few comments concerning the outcome of the recent irish referendum, that was held on the nice treaty. i am very disappointed at the result of this referendum in ireland but i fully respect the outcome of this democratic process. i welcome the conclusions of this week's council meeting of eu foreign ministers; they too stated that the will of the irish people must be respected. i firmly believe that the vast majority of the irish people are committed to the enlargement process and i do not want to see the timeframe for the enlargement of the european union to include countries from eastern and central europe delayed as a direct consequence of the decision of the irish people last week. in ireland we need time now to reflect upon this result in a calm and reasoned manner. ireland's future relationship with the european union is a critically important matter. time for deliberation will be needed if we are to address the complex issues and concerns which arose during the referendum debate. this referendum undoubtedly underlines the need for greater efforts to be made by all of us to explain european union policies to our citizens and to involve the citizens of the eu more thoroughly in the debate about the union's role and its future direction. there are lessons for us all to learn from the results of the nice treaty referendum. it is incumbent on the commission and all the 15 governments of the union also to reflect upon this result. we must build a european union that commands the good will and support and enthusiasm of the 370 million citizens who make up the membership of the union. i very much welcome the decision of the irish government, which last night established a national forum on europe. this forum will undertake the process of consultation and dialogue on eu policy with the irish public on matters of concern to them. this forum is also part of the debate on the overall future of europe that is ongoing in all 15 member states of the european union in the run-up to the next intergovernmental conference in 2004. all political parties, the social partners and other interested parties will be represented on this forum, which is expected to begin its work very shortly. another very important matter is that mr bush, the president of the united states, will be in göteborg later this week to meet eu leaders. it is very timely, therefore, that this summit will be addressing key environmental issues which need to be tackled, both within the union and in a more global context. i was very disappointed when president bush earlier this year stated that he wanted to renegotiate the kyoto accord. the fact of the matter is that we need to reduce the level of greenhouse gases that are being produced in europe and in the united states. this is very important if we are to ensure a halt to the depletion of the ozone layer.
mr president, may i at the outset offer sweden my congratulations on its effective presidency. i will be forgiven for concentrating on the irish situation. the irish people have spoken. the answer is "no". we must respect that decision. could i plead with the commission, the council and indeed the summit to be sure that decision is respected in what they say and in the signals they give. they must analyse it and not treat it as an irrelevancy, sending a message that with or without ireland they will proceed. if that were the case, they would not need ratification from all 15 member states. if it is not the case, they must not treat the decision as an irrelevancy. i say this to them as a passionate "yes" voter, because they are causing more damage with the post-nice referendum signals they are sending than with any pre-nice referendum signals they sent in ireland. please be careful. the complexity and the lack of clarity of the nice treaty allowed a huge range of issues to be tagged onto the debate during the irish referendum, issues relevant and irrelevant to nice, causing concern and fear among the people, which resulted in a huge abstention with a paltry 34% turnout, of whom 54% voted "no". in other words, 19% of people entitled to vote voted "no" and signalled an unwillingness to proceed with enlargement, because that was what nice was about. please believe me when i say that i do not believe that the irish people wish to deny the accession countries the opportunities and support that we as a small under-developed country have experienced and put to great use over the last three decades. our government was obliged by a supreme court decision to spend as much money telling the public the reasons to vote "no" as the reasons to vote "yes". the media was likewise obliged to give as much coverage to the "no" campaign as to the "yes" campaign, without challenging the irrelevancies, despite the fact that all the major political parties, farm organisations, trade unions, press editorials and even the conference of bishops urged a "yes" vote. there was an assumption that the outcome was a fait accompli. perhaps that explains why our government did so little, took the electorate for granted and was content to mine the eurosceptic vote for the forthcoming general election, with several ministers in recent months giving very ambivalent signals. commissioner solbes mira's reprimand angered middle ireland and raised fears of europe meddling in our tax affairs. statements from mr jospin and commissioner prodi during the campaign did not help, but the responsibility for investing time and energy in the campaign lay primarily with our government, and it failed. the "no" campaigners, starting from behind with nothing to lose and no one correcting the irrelevancies and, worse, the scare-mongering, beavered away. i voted "yes" and i resent the implication that by doing so i am pro-abortion, anti-neutrality, pro-nato, pro-nuclear power, pro-euthanasia. the list is endless – take your pick. they are all issues worthy of debate, but nothing to do with the nice treaty. we need time to reflect, to analyse the outcome, to learn from it, to respond to the legitimate fears and concerns and, above all, to try and understand why 65% of the electorate stayed at home. was this an indictment of the european project or a mid-term wake-up call to our political establishment? the jury is out. following our government's announcement last night of a new multi-party national forum to explain and discuss the european project in general and nice in particular, i hope a more informed, reassured irish electorate will allow our government to ratify the nice treaty in the next twelve months or so.
mr president, the treaty of nice is dead and must not be given the kiss of life. to do so would be to show contempt for the voice of the people, not just in ireland, but throughout europe. the rejection of the treaty of nice by the irish people is not a rejection of enlargement. no one campaigned against enlargement on the "no" side. we want to show solidarity with the people of eastern europe and to give them the cohesion funds and agricultural funds that we ourselves received. what people were asked to decide on in nice are new ways of running the eu, which are unacceptable. i should like to caution and warn eu ministers in göteborg to consider carefully the effect that a second resounding defeat would have for the nice proposals. they should think carefully about the effects on their own electorates who are watching with increasing disenchantment the distant and cumbersome european superstructure. the intergovernmental method of negotiating eu treaties where leaders wheel-and-deal behind closed doors on matters of importance for all our citizens has come to an end and is now also dead. a new method has to be found which leads to results that are understood and accepted by all of us, involving national and regional parliaments and, indeed, civil society. the nice result is not an outburst of euro-scepticism. it is an indication of a serious rethink about europe across the continent. i woke up one morning to find that irish soldiers were being sent to the rapid reaction force. i did not know how that decision was made. none of our citizens knew how that decision was made. we voted "no" because of those kinds of problems. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i do not blame other european governments for ignoring the decision of the irish people. the irish government themselves have ignored the mandate that they clearly got from the people. as mrs dybkjær has just said, what they have done is to tell the other eu governments to carry on as usual; they will then go back to the irish people and get them to vote again until they get it right. they are going to ask the irish people to vote again on the same treaty with declarations attached which are not legally binding. that is completely unacceptable to the democratic process and our government is guilty of treachery in its approach to the irish vote. enlargement can go ahead, but we want it to be fair and equitable. we would like to see the new member states come in under the same conditions as those offered to ireland. instead, the doors have been tightly closed to keep those countries out until the rules are changed to suit the big and wealthy countries in europe. that is not acceptable. the eastern european countries are being misled by those eu leaders who maintain that the "no" vote in ireland was a "no" to enlargement. that is not so. as mr cox has said, we campaigned for enlargement but against the nice treaty, because it is not in the interests of the countries coming in, nor is it in the interests of the existing member states. it merely serves the interests of the more powerful, and that is not a europe that we want to see emerge in the future.
mr president, as has already been said a number of times, the irish "no" was not a "no" to enlargement. not one single political party in ireland argued against enlargement, either on the "no" side or the "yes" side: only one organisation – a non-party organisation which campaigned for "no" – argued against enlargement. the irish people has spoken on nice and its decision will be respected. the people of the other fourteen member states are also entitled to have their say on the treaty in accordance with their constitutions. for them it will be expressed through their democratically elected parliaments. they must not be denied that right. it is ironic, that the people in this house who argued against nice, because nice was too much europe, are now saying that europe should instruct its member states not to ratify nice. it beggars belief that this undemocratic attitude is being expressed here by the irish greens and by others. could i put it simply for them, because it seems to be very difficult for them to understand: do they argue that the world cup should be lost because the first team that plays should lose if it does not score the first goal, or should the game go its full term and should every qualified team play the complete game to the end? there is time for ratification, even if we need extra time, let us take that time. as a democracy, where the people are sovereign, the irish people is also entitled to decide to reconsider its decision and to confirm or reverse it. we now need a sustained debate on nice. those parties who supported nice should seek a mandate at the next general election, which will take place by june 2002, to present a new proposal on nice to the people before december 2002. john cushnahan and i have published a seven-point initiative on measures, which could help to clarify the issues and to assuage fears in ireland. i am happy to report that one of those initiatives, the establishment of a forum in ireland on the future of europe, has been adopted by the irish government. that is a proposal which i tabled in december 2000 after nice. i thank the swedish minister here this morning for her confirmation that there is going to be a convention. it is not easy to discern the myriad of concerns, some domestic, some european, which gave rise to the "no" result in ireland. there is one overriding and general concern, the sense that people are losing control of their government and their lives. people know that the european project is necessary and important, but they are at a loss as to how they fit into the scheme of things. the bottom line is that if we want people in europe in every country to initiate a new experiment in sharing their democracy, sovereignty, benefits of freedoms, then we, as their elected representatives have to lead courageously by spelling out in great detail how it will work. in conclusion, the rights of each member state and each person who lives in europe must be guaranteed. that can best be done through a new federalism based on a european constitution. so far, we have only the vaguest outline of what that might represent. we have a mountain to climb, but i am confident that the people in ireland and the rest of europe will rise to the challenge when they are given the chance.
madam president, i do not like the result of this vote. could we have it again, and maybe set up a forum to discuss it first? that is what we are asking the irish people to do on this issue. (laughter)
madam president, i voted against this resolution. there were some good things in it, on enlargement and sustainability; but in relation to defence policy, i just could not accept the idea of welcoming the rapid reaction force and wanting it to be operational before the end of 2001. i do not support the militarisation of europe. there are a number of aspects of this resolution, in relation also to defence budgets, which promote the militarisation of europe. there is one point that i voted against in the roll-call votes, in relation to the us missile defence system. i feel the point was not made strongly enough. it seemed to accept the missile defence system. just asking to be kept informed about it is not enough. we should not go along with the us missile defence system. we should oppose it at every opportunity rather than saying: just keep us informed about it. in general i feel this resolution points in the wrong direction. it supports the militarisation of europe – something i do not support. i voted "against". perhaps, if you put it to me again, under a lot of pressure, i would change my mind, just as the irish government hopes the irish people will do with regard to the nice treaty.
in writing. - the irish 'no' is not a 'no' to enlargement. no irish political party campaigned against enlargement. only one organisation - an organisation outside the political parties - spoke out against enlargement. the irish people have spoken in nice and their decision will be respected. citizens of the other 14 member states also have a right to express their views on the treaty in accordance with their respective constitutions. their voices will be heard through their democratically elected parliaments. that right cannot be taken away from them. as members of a democracy where citizens are sovereign, the irish also have the right to reconsider their decision to confirm or deny it. we need to have a coherent debate on nice. the parties that supported the treaty must secure a mandate in the next parliamentary elections, scheduled for june 2002, in order to present new proposals on the treaty before december 2002. john cushnahan and i have published a seven-point initiative on measures which we believe could help to clarify the issues and allay the fears expressed in ireland. i am pleased to tell you that one of these initiatives, the establishment of a forum in ireland on the future of europe, has been adopted by the irish government. in my view, it must be complementary and work in parallel with the european convention proposed by the socialist group, which was supported this morning by minister lindh as a proposal for göteborg. it is not easy to distinguish the many problems, sometimes domestic, sometimes european, which led to the irish 'no'. the main problem, however, is that citizens feel they are losing control of their government and their lives. they know the importance of the european project but have the greatest difficulty in finding their place in it. clearly, if we want the citizens of europe in all countries to embark on a new experience of sharing their democracy, their sovereignty, the benefits of their freedoms, then we must, as elected representatives, explain in detail to them the modalities of this operation. the rights of each member state and of each person living in europe must be guaranteed. the best way to do this is through a new federalism based on a european constitution. so far, we have only a vague idea of what this might represent. we have a mountain to climb, but i am confident that the people of ireland and the rest of europe will rise to the challenge when they have the chance.
mr president, i would like to join with my colleagues in thanking stephen hughes for the work he has done on this report. it has been a very difficult task and, excuse the pun, a difficult road for him to travel down. the overall aim of the report is to raise awareness with regard to health and safety and to prevent unfair competition. in his report, stephen has mentioned his concerns with regard to the common position; i share some of those concerns. there are areas that are open to improvement. however, i also expressed concerns with regard to some of the amendments adopted by the committee and to some of the stances taken within the committee. as already mentioned by some of my colleagues and, in particular, my scottish colleague, peripheral areas of europe would be more adversely affected than others by these restrictions. for instance, in ireland 98% of what is manufactured is transported by road. we have a fast growing economy. it depends on a flexible and innovative transport industry. the principle was clearly established in 1993 that directives are to avoid imposing administrative, financial and legal restrictions which would affect these kind of undertakings. we must try to reduce the number of vehicles on our roads, but there is no guarantee that this directive would do that. in fact, according to information available from studies carried out by the irish road hauliers' association it would increase the number of vehicles on the road and would neither reduce congestion nor lessen environmental damage. the working time directive as proposed by the council could result in higher costs for companies. some of the amendments put forward by the rapporteur, such as amendment no 6, are too prescriptive, while others such as amendment no 14, are too restrictive. amendment no 17 would impose additional obligations on member states and would be difficult to implement. in amendment no 19 there is a call for harmonisation of penalties. this is not something we should agree with. this matter should be left to the member states because otherwise, as has already been seen, there would be differences in implementation of the penalties. finally, under recital 14 certain conditions with regard to the average working week are not being implemented. what we are seeking is decreased administrative burdens, a more balanced proposal and fairness for all.
mr president, i welcome the hughes report and the reasonable balance that he has achieved. it is a tribute to his political skill. apart from alcohol, i think fatigue is probably the biggest killer on our roads and it is also true to say that if i were employed as a truck driver, i would not want my job undermined by a self-employed driver who would be willing to work 18 hours a day. nor, if i was a self-employed driver and wanted to strike a fair balance between my working life and my family life, would i want someone undermining my position by being able to work 18 hours a day. it is pointless to argue that a self-employed driver might be less fatigued than an employed driver. from my own personal experience, the reverse is in fact true. a self-employed driver has many more tasks to carry out and is more likely to be fatigued when first taking the wheel, never mind having worked 10 or 12 hours in the day, so i would strongly support this report and welcome the compromises that stephen hughes has reached. it is also important to tighten up the definition of "self-employed". we have seen too much abuse of this loose definition of "self-employed" in other areas of work. our responsibility is to find a balance between the needs of employed and self-employed drivers and the community at large, so as to ensure that the latter can go about its business safely. they look to us to provide and guarantee safety and to ensure that employed and self-employed drivers are protected by the law from being driven into bad health and, perhaps, an early death from overwork.
mr president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to speak on this very important topic, which is most pertinent to my constituency of connaught ulster, covering virtually the entire northern and western coasts of ireland. the livelihoods of many of my constituents are dependent on the marine sector and a coherent safety policy for all facets of maritime transport is an urgent necessity. i commend all three rapporteurs for their work on this important subject. i would also like to express my appreciation for the work carried out by the commission in responding so rapidly to parliament's resolution, which called for a general tightening up of maritime safety. it has brought forward two comprehensive packages of measures in a relatively short period of time and has clearly demonstrated a proper appreciation of the urgency of the matter. the measures we are dealing with today aim at the effective protection of european waters against the risk of accidents at sea and marine pollution. i would like to address myself in particular to the setting up of a european maritime safety agency. this agency would play an important role in providing the commission and member states with support in applying, and monitoring compliance with, maritime safety measures, and in assessing their effectiveness. it is not enough to agree on a set of rules. we must also ensure that there is full and proper application of all aspects of maritime safety regulations in order to afford maximum protection for all those working in the sector, as well as to protect properly inhabitants of coastal areas and the coastal environment. i welcome the proposal for four representatives on the board to be appointed by parliament. with regard to a proposal for four industry representatives on the board, it would be helpful for the commission to clarify that the various sectors of the maritime industry would be represented. it is absolutely essential that there be representatives from the fishing industry on this board. in conclusion, it is essential that whatever regulation we adopt aims at an exemplary level of safety in sea transport and the prevention of pollution in our seas. coming from a maritime region of the union, i am acutely aware of the preciousness of our marine resources and the need for sustainable activities, which assure these resources for future generations.
rapporteur. – mr president, the continued increase in air traffic, which is expected to double over the next decade, is placing unprecedented pressure on air travel safety. it has been well documented that air transport is a very safe mode of transport and this should, and must, remain the case. however, we must all work to ensure that air accidents are reduced to a bare minimum. the continent of europe accounts for about 10% of all accidents worldwide, while one third of air traffic takes place in european skies. it is clear that a large proportion of the measures needed to improve air safety should be geared towards preventing accidents, rather than providing a response when accidents have happened. incidents occurring in one member state are not necessarily known in another member state and similar circumstances can lead to fatal accidents. that is why i welcome this european commission proposal. as a result of this new initiative, all european union member states will establish formal incident-reporting systems to facilitate the collection of information on actual or potential safety deficiencies involving aeroplanes in europe. setting up a system that allows for safety and civil aviation authorities to share information available from the different reporting schemes will enable all parties involved learn from their mistakes thereby producing a safer system for all air users in future. article 75 of the treaty of maastricht introduced the legal basis for the introduction of community measures to improve the level of transport safety in europe, thereby creating a community competence in this field. the adoption of a directive on accident and investigation in november 1994 was the first eu response to the use of these new powers. however, the limitation of the 1994 directive was that as the number of accidents is fortunately very low, the opportunities to learn from them are very limited and lessons can, therefore, be drawn only after an accident has already happened. it is now proposed to complement this first initiative with a new directive that would address both mandatory and confidential reporting of incidents, defects or malfunctions which may constitute a hazard for civil aviation operations, called "occurrences". the objective of this new directive is to contribute to the improvement of air safety by ensuring that essential safety information is reported and collected, stored, protected and disseminated in order to facilitate its effective analysis and monitoring. a network of national mandatory occurrence reporting systems will be based on a system developed by the joint research centre in ispra in italy. these reporting systems would also be complemented by the creation of confidential reporting mechanisms which will be put in place across the territories of the european union. the proposed european aviation safety agency will need this kind of data if it is to carry out its work effectively. in conclusion, it is incumbent on all legislators within the european union to ensure that the utmost is being done to ensure that air travellers are entirely safe in the journeys they take. the specific proposal is part of a number of measures presently being proposed by the committee on transport of this parliament to improve the quality and safety standards of air travel for all users.
mr president, i should like to thank mr linkohr for a very fair report. i agree on the importance of far-sighted policies. when oil prices rise we conserve energy, when they fall we do not. this has been very short-sighted, as i am sure the commissioner will agree. energy saving and the rational use of energy must be part of our strategy for security of supply. the rapporteur has rightly pointed out that it is possible to save large quantities of oil using existing technology. around 20% of production could be saved simply by using energy-saving windows. oil is a costly, non-renewable energy source, which should not be used wastefully. i therefore support the commission's proposal to submit to the göteborg council a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources aimed at more efficient energy use. what is even more important is the transport sector. here the emphasis on biofuels and renewable energies is most welcome. we need to develop a new generation of vehicles. energy consumption in the transport sector is our greatest problem. the report makes very welcome proposals here. the green group cannot, however, agree that nuclear energy is safe or an acceptable replacement for oil. instead, let us have the same kind of investment in renewable energy that we have seen in nuclear energy over the past 40 years.
mr president, i refer to an administrative change that has been made in parliament, which comes to me as news. apparently, a contract has been signed by a new travel agency to replace wagonlit. since i came to this house in 1984, wagonlit has provided an excellent service. now we have a new travel agency coming in to takeover, maybe to save the community a few pounds. travel for members of this house is difficult enough without bringing in new agencies, without consulting members. some of the best travel agents who have served the members of this house are going to leave. there should be more consultation when administrative changes of this kind are made. i think it is not a parliament decision but a commission decision. it is yet another undermining of the services to which members are entitled. i hope the president will inform us of the reasons for the allocation of these contracts and the savings made. i have absolutely no interest other than the convenience of members. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i wish to speak briefly on another point of order in relation to the minutes. much of the debate here yesterday focused on the irish people's decision in relation to the nice treaty. i merely wish to say on this point of order that the irish people took a democratic decision that we all accept. the irish people believe in the european union and in enlargement, and will deal with these issues in its own time and in its own way. my real point of order is this: i strongly deplore the fact that, while mr le pen was speaking in this chamber, the french national front waved the irish flag beside him. i can assure the members of this house that in doing so, the french national front was abusing the irish flag and everything it stands for. (applause)
mr president, i wish to speak on the poignant report. in committee we tabled an amendment on the increasing problem of fishing vessels flying flags of convenience, which was very narrowly defeated. more and more unscrupulous shipowners are transferring their vessels to countries such as belize, honduras or st vincent and the grenadines. they know perfectly well that these countries will turn a blind eye to whatever these ships do: how they fish and what they catch. commissioner fischler has quite rightly referred to this problem as the 'scourge of the oceans'. at present, there is nothing to prevent a european shipowner from exporting his ship to one of these countries, receiving a very healthy subsidy of eur 1 million or more and still keeping his ship. we introduced an amendment to try and close this huge loophole, using criteria adopted by international fisheries management organisations. i am glad to hear that the rapporteur supports our amendment, because it is scandalous that this loophole still exists. i do not see how anyone in this house could actually support the use of eu funds – eu taxpayers' money, that is – to allow shipowners to escape controls and then fish in competition with law-abiding shipowners. i urge everyone here today to support this amendment.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur. i welcome the commission proposal to introduce, on a trial basis, a simplified system for the payment of direct income support to farmers. although the scheme initially will apply only to farmers in receipt of small payments, it is nonetheless an indication of the willingness on the part of the commission to respond to requests from this house, and indeed from national governments, for a simplified and less bureaucratic system of administering eu support for agriculture. since farming systems on most family farms are broadly similar, the principle of averaging payments over a three-year period seems to be reasonable and fair however, the commission should clarify the procedure in relation to the application of penalties within that averaging system. the proposal will result in less paperwork for farmers and a more cost-effective system for administration by national governments. i support the agriculture committee's view that the upper limit should be increased by 20%, and agree with many of the comments made earlier by mr cunha. i hope that the maximum number of eligible farmers will opt to participate in this scheme and that the experiences gained will lead to its extension to other farmers in the future. given that many small family farms are under pressure and that there is a reluctance on the part of young people to take up farming as a career, i believe that the upper ceiling should be at a level that will encourage small-holdings and those dependent on farming for an income to continue operating. i am pleased that the qualification has an environmental requirement. there has been an enormous improvement in the environmental profile of the rural of countryside, resulting from farmer participation in the rural environmental protection scheme and the environmental requirements of a reformed cap. this is a very useful proposal that certainly should be encouraged, and i thank the commissioner for bringing it to the house.
mr president, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses a major threat to the world. the misuse of biotechnology for hostile purposes must be addressed straight away. the use of biological and toxic weapons has to be tackled. it is disgraceful that there is no mechanism in place today to verify compliance with the biological and toxins weapons convention. a legally binding protocol to strengthen compliance with the btwc is a matter of the utmost urgency. we would urge the states parties to show maximum flexibility and readiness to compromise, so that a short deadline can be met and a protocol adopted before the fifth convention review conference in november/december of this year. we would also like to see states create a stronger possible verification regime in order to curb the hostile misuse of biological technologies. this means maintaining at the very least the measure currently outlined in the chairman's draft text. we would recommend that the final version of the compliance protocol establish a modern and open verification regime capable of adjusting to changes in political climate and in technological capabilities.
mr president, i should like to thank mr pérez royo for his report and the efficient conduct of business in committee. he had our full support. but we have some reservations. in this policy of buying, on behalf of community fleets, fish from third countries, i often ask myself whether it might not be better to spend the money in another way, in the interests of the regions which we set out to help. i have no difficulty whatsoever with the need to develop the fishing ports that are, in many ways, hard-pressed through restructuring and depleted stocks. i have no difficulty with the original political decision of the european union to help the regions, particularly those of spain and portugal, that are highly or partly dependent on fishing. but i have a serious problem about dealing with countries like the comoros, which has a population of half-a-million people, and a gdp per capita of usd 700. i cannot believe that these people have any capacity whatsoever to police their waters or in any way manage their stocks. we are obviously sending – as the rapporteur pointed out – something like 65 vessels (mostly spanish and french) into these waters. these vessels catch 40 000 tonnes of fish. how can anybody have any control over what they do or what they bring back? i tend to believe that, to put it bluntly, this is a licence to plunder. first of all, i would like a proper evaluation, as mr pérez royo requested, an economic evaluation and a cost-benefit analysis on behalf of the union. i would like to take it further and have a social evaluation of the money we spend, to find out whether or not we contribute to the improvement of the economic and social situation of certain regions in spain or france, where this money is supposed to go, or whether in fact we just give a licence to a small number of people, who control quite a lot of capital, to exploit the waters of a country which is in no position to control its own resources. that is my main concern. i would prefer to take this money and spend it in the regions concerned, in spain, portugal or france, and spend it in such a way that we have direct control over the development we promote and in a way that we could be sure would be sustainable – for fish farming or alternative industries, perhaps. nevertheless i support the report. mr pérez royo represents the view of the committee on this.
mr president, mr rothley's own-initiative report is indeed most welcome at this stage in the evolution of the single market. there is no doubt that the fourth motor insurance directive needs updating after 15 years in force. this period has afforded us sufficient opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the directive in contributing to a genuine single market for motor insurance. it is clear that there are a number of gaps remaining and that the insuree and the claimant still face certain difficulties which need to be addressed. i thank mr rothley for his research in this area and for clearly identifying the areas in which the legal protection of accident victims can be improved. as long as there is room for improvement in this area, it is incumbent on us, as european legislators, to push forward and bring about a better set of conditions. while a certain amount of progress has been made, it is clear that a single insurance market does not yet exist. this deprives consumers of the best that companies across europe can offer in terms of choice, in terms of flexibility and, of course, price. motor insurance is a multi-billion euro business and further competition must be encouraged so that consumers can reap the benefits. one glaring inconsistency in the motor insurance field is in the area of temporary residency. current rules often place consumers at the mercy of insurance companies. this must stop. i strongly support the notion that citizens who wish to take up temporary residency outside their home country should be allowed to bring their personal motor vehicle without running into financial and administrative obstacles. the freedom to live, work or study abroad must mean just that – freedom – and not hidden barriers. having to re-insure and re-register can be such hindrances. in my own country we currently have the shortest re-registration period, with only one day allowed. it is frequently difficult for temporary residents to obtain local insurance cover at a reasonable price. a one-year grace period during which the home country insurer would be obliged to continue cover is perfectly reasonable. this would mean one less headache for citizens considering temporary residency in another member state. we often hear in this house that european citizens somehow feel far removed from decisions taken at european level, that the issues dealt with are not ones that impinge on their daily lives. it is all the more welcome, therefore, that we in parliament should take the initiative in matters such as this where we can make a real and tangible contribution to the rights and legal protection of our citizens.
mr president, it is very important that a framework is developed within the european union in order to guarantee that the rights of consumers are protected at all times. this entails putting into place systems which will allow the 370 million consumers of the european union to access justice promptly, and to secure redress when consumer rights are infringed. justice delayed is justice denied. this is why i welcome this communication, which seeks to put in place procedures to deal with out-of-court settlements of consumer disputes. it is up to the 15 member states of the european union to implement the provisions of this recommendation. each member state will have to put in place procedures which can deal with out-of-court settlements of consumer disputes. ultimately, these new structures will be able to help resolve cross-border disputes for aggrieved consumers within the european union. each government within the european union will also have to set up central contact points, which will provide consumers with the requisite information about out-of-court resolution disputes bodies which are operational within their jurisdiction. such central contact points will explain to consumers to whom they may address their complaints and seek appropriate redress. the central contact points will provide information and assistance with regard to the resolution of cross-border disputes within the european union. i would urge the european commission to allocate substantial funds to ensure that this new scheme is widely publicised across the european union. if we want these new structures to be a success, wide publicity is going to have to be put in place. these new procedures are also going to have to be monitored in a structured manner, so as to ensure that any discrepancies in the operation of these new schemes within the different member states of the european union are ironed out. in conclusion, mr president, this proposal is only part of a range of measures implemented by the european union to protect consumer rights. consumers need to be protected, both in the off-line world and in the increasingly important on-line world where consumers are purchasing many goods and services over the internet. a new information technology age has arrived. we must ensure that consumers' rights are protected as these technologies continue. i congratulate the rapporteur on this fine report.
madam president, mr president-in-office, i should like to begin by congratulating the prime minister and his colleagues on a successful presidency. it has been a first presidency for sweden, and i believe both your government and state can feel a justifiable pride in a job well done. of all the jobs well done, the one my group applauds most loudly is the clear-sighted, determined commitment which you brought to the enlargement question from day one of your presidency. it has shone through the presidency, not just since göteborg, but as an appetite to achieve right from the beginning. that determination has been handsomely rewarded. i know it was a delicate issue. but perhaps the shock irish referendum result helped the politics of clarification, which i welcome. it is a very important message to the applicant states to say that we want to resolve this issue as soon as we can. the commitment to try to ensure that the first wave can participate in the next european elections as member states is an important clarification and a very substantial achievement of your presidency. i congratulate you on it. it is also very important to acknowledge the progress under your presidency for the second wave of applicant states, the helsinki states – again a wonderful tribute to your focus and determination. i would urge the belgian presidency and those that follow to maintain that pace, focus and commitment. you are right, mr prime minister, that we have now got to do some of our homework as well. not all the transitional issues are just for the applicants, particularly in agriculture, regional policy and cohesion policy. now we have to start biting some bullets; we have to start focusing on the issues. i hope that the irish referendum will not get in the way of this process. we have until the end of 2002 for nice to be ratified. it is a matter for the irish administration to decide how to proceed. but in the interim this should not be used as a reason for taking our foot off the accelerator on this important issue. on a matter which has drawn a number of comments, my group fully supports, recognises and celebrates the rights of citizens in a free society to demonstrate. but clearly there were, in göteborg, anarchic groups whose essential, primary purpose was to undermine democracy itself. you, mr prime minister, more than any of your predecessors at any of these international meetings, went out of your way to meet people, to conciliate, to provide people with places to stay. for the large majority the issue was peaceful and proper demonstration. my group would like to extend its sympathy to the citizens of göteborg on a very difficult moment in a wonderful host city. i have one or two other brief comments. on macedonia, the presidency, along with commissioner patten, mrs lindh and javier solana have proved the value of developing an embryonic common foreign and security policy. the peace remains delicate. there is a difficult balance between peace and civil war, but the intensity of the european effort and the unity of the european effort is in marked contrast to the disunity of ten years ago. that is not just european progress but a measure of significant progress on the ground. finally, regarding company law on mergers and takeovers, the presidency has done a wonderful job in fashioning a difficult compromise. i would appeal to members of this house not to pull the plug on an important measure of economic reform. (applause)
mr president, i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency on its success and also express my regret that the irish referendum result overshadowed many of their achievements, particularly in the field of enlargement. the european council in göteborg was generous in response to our predicament and i welcome its willingness to help the irish government find a way forward. i regret that it is not going to be easy. with a little more effort by the political establishment in ireland, a 'yes' vote could easily have been obtained but now that the referendum has taken place, many people, including supporters of the nice treaty, will be reluctant to overturn it. it also must be said that the recent remarks of mr prodi in the irish media to the effect that enlargement can proceed even if nice is not ratified, unfortunately adds to the confusion. however, my major concern arises because of the existence of a strong eurosceptic core at the heart of the irish government. while the taoiseach was speaking to our european partners inside the council in an attempt to repair the damage inflicted on our reputation, his finance minister, charlie mccreevy, was outside describing the irish rejection of the nice treaty as a remarkable and healthy development. i wish to take the opportunity of warning the council and the commission to be careful, as mr mccreevy's continued eurosceptic approach could well be an indication of his intention to provoke another row with the eu over ireland's budgetary policy in the run-up to a possible autumn irish general election. i hope that the ratification of the nice treaty proceeds successfully, and that when we revisit the issue in ireland, we will have a different result.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the swedish presidency on being very successful. i am particularly pleased that the presidency succeeded in putting sustainable development at the core of european politics. it is extremely important that the european union is perceived by our citizens as more than an economic exercise and a free market because that, without any doubt, will alienate them further from the notion of european integration. it is important to bear in mind that economic integration and getting the economy of europe right is important. it is equally important to bear in mind that there cannot be economic development in a modern economy without a strong social dimension. i would argue that sustainable development and employment are part and parcel of the social dimension of the european union. i also wish to congratulate the swedish presidency on putting the notion of conflict prevention on the agenda in a much stronger way than up to now. given the traditions of the swedish people, this is obviously an area very close to their hearts. it is very close to the heart of the people of ireland who, unfortunately, recently rejected the nice treaty, precisely because they misunderstood to some extent the nature of the european union and what we are attempting to do in relation to the rapid reaction force. i am pleased that the presidency has been a success and that these issues have been put on the agenda. it is now up to us in this parliament and future presidencies to develop them further.
mr president, with just six months to go before the introduction of the euro notes and coins, we must focus clearly on this event. the report is timely and mr maaten's observations are very welcome. the one clear fact about 'euro day', 1 january 2002, is that it is truly irreversible. it is going to happen and, therefore, we must be ready. we have made substantial progress on all fronts. taking public information first, the surveys of public awareness about the euro are heartening. the most recent survey carried out in may by the irish euro changeover board show that in my country, 95% of people know the name of the single currency, 91% have same prices in both irish pounds and the euro and 79% know that euro notes and coins will be introduced in 2002. seventy-eight percent have seen pictures of the euro notes and coins and 64% know that an irish pound will get you eur 1.27. there is still a distance to go, however: only 36% of people are aware of the length of the dual circulation period, which in my country has been shortened to 9 february 2002. in addition, there has been quite an amount of legislation to cater for the introduction of the euro, covering areas such as finance and social welfare. in all cases, it is essential that we act on the principle of favouring the citizen. there are essentially two tasks for national and european authorities: they have to oversee the successful changeover to the euro and provide the public with information about it.
mr president, 1 january 2002 marks another significant step in european integration. the change from 12 different national currencies to a single currency is the culmination of months of careful preparation and yet i fear some citizens, even at this late stage, have not grasped the significance of the change and its implications, which i believe are extremely positive. no other eu policy change will impact in such a profound and personal way on all citizens and at the same time. from children to pensioners, from the corporate sector to small business, each will be exposed to this significant milestone in european administration. because there is a degree of complacency with regard to all eu change, every effort must be made in the months remaining before 1 january to alert consumers to the importance of what is happening and, more importantly, to assure them that their interests are placed at the forefront by those whose job it is to manage this important change. i am satisfied that everything possible is being done, but nothing can be left to chance. we know that there are some people who are sceptical. their views are important to the debate, but we must establish beyond doubt that their worries will not be realised. for example, we all recall the introduction of decimalisation and, despite our assurances at that time, consumers experienced price increases. we all need to put beyond doubt the absence of a cost factor in the exchange mechanism. the house will be aware that banks availed themselves of the transition period to cream off excessive exchange charges and, to some extent, this is still happening. what assurances can the european central bank give that these matters will be scrutinised with the utmost vigour and with appropriate sanctions?
mr president, rather than reinvent the wheel and go back over everything that was said, it is important to look at the reality: our population is getting older, living longer and retiring sooner. there must be provision for proper pension protection and payments in the future. the only way to achieve this is by coupling the different systems that are out there with the second and third pillar, as suggested by the rapporteur. the areas of concern i have about the amendments and some of the proposals put forward relate firstly to tax harmonisation, which i oppose totally, and secondly to increased regulatory supervision over the operation of these funds, because we already have a raft of legislation governing investment vehicles and investment instruments. i could advise members of this house, and perhaps member state governments whose observers are here today, to look at the irish model, where we have committed ourselves between now and 2025 to putting 1% of our gdp towards a future pensions fund. that would mean iep 700 m per year being put into the protection of pension payments for people from the year 2025 onwards. if more countries were willing to do this, then we would not have the same sense of urgency or danger that now faces many pensioners in europe today.
i want to thank the commissioner for his full answer and also to congratulate him on the efforts i know the commission and, indeed, the council are making to bring about more humanitarian and satisfactory conditions for democracy in that region. i draw the commissioner's attention to the fact that many of the prisoners who are still suffering in prison without trial have been wounded and are ill, and no information has been made available to their relations. in fact, relations visiting or trying to visit these prisoners have been subjected to intimidation. no normal process of law has been put into effect against them. it is extremely important, because of the financial contribution we have been making in these areas, to make the authorities accountable to the public for the way these prisoners are being treated. it happens – and this is a new dimension to our relationship with these countries – that the three prisoners i mentioned have relations in ireland and, because of the interaction between voluntary organisations in ireland and kosovo, pressure is being put on me as an mep to find a solution to this problem.
mr president, i too would like to join in the congratulations to the rapporteur, and to the draftsman from the committee on legal affairs, with regard to the proposal put before us. like previous speakers, i welcome it because it is time that we in the eu had our own domain. it will allow more business to operate on the new e-economy, and will also get rid of some of the uncertainty and some of the difficulties there are with regard to the different domains that exist at present. the one area of concern i have is in relation to the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers – icann. as this is a body which is regulated under us law, they are already in the process of registering the ".eu" domain and allowing people to buy ".eu" domains as well. i would like to know if possible from the commissioner what action he has taken to deal with this possible conflict in the future. i, along with other members in the house, have full confidence in the commission ensuring that there is an innovative and new way of guaranteeing security for this domain in the future.
madam president, firstly i should to thank the belgian government for outlining in its legislative agenda the priorities it intends to pursue during its six month presidency of the union. it has already made it clear that it intends to promote wider cooperation between law enforcement agencies throughout the union. within the union a new institutional framework to fight against organised crime is being put in place, following the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam. the european council has since launched two action plans to combat organised crime, aimed at overcoming disparities in national procedures and encouraging more efficient judicial cooperation. the creation of europol represented a major step forward in this context. it is important that all eu institutions work together to ensure the development of a coherent european strategy against organised crime. we must, at the same time, overcome difficulties to ensure that crossborder crime is tackled without curtailing the freedoms and legal rights of individuals and economic operators. we should all recall that the primary motive of organised crime is financial gain. i support a european-wide political agreement concerning the identification and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in all its forms. we are all aware of the success the irish criminal assets bureau has had over the last five years in confiscating the proceeds of crime. in europe much has already been done to fight cyber crime. the council of europe is in the process of completing preparations for the world’s first international convention on cyber crime. the commission has already presented a legislative proposal on child pornography on the internet, in line with the provisions of the council of europe’s cyber crime convention. i support the commission’s framework programme to combat trafficking in human beings; the aim is to develop effective judicial cooperation across the european union. over the next six months the belgian presidency will have a coordinating role as we put in place the finishing touches to the launch of the euro notes and coins on 1 january next. it is important that the information campaigns, which are to be intensified later this summer, are successfully managed. in recent weeks the israeli foreign minister and the palestinian leader have visited parliament. it is now evident that the european union has come to assume a pivotal role in pursuing peace within the middle east. i very much hope that the belgian presidency will use this important time to help end the spiral of violence in the middle east and seek the recommencement of dialogue between all parties in the region. we are all aware that the eu leaders will be meeting in laeken later this year to agree the format of a structured debate on europe’s future. it is very important that we avoid contributing to the creation of a two-tier europe. i certainly do not want to build a european union that is controlled by the larger member states to the detriment of the smaller member states. smaller member states must be strongly represented within the overall eu institutional structure. finally, i would urge the belgian presidency to ensure that the difficult chapters of negotiation with the applicant countries are opened as soon as possible. solutions must be found to the chapters of discussion which to date have remained closed concerning the future accession of countries from central and eastern europe.
madam president, i apologise to you and to colleagues if by rising i test their patience, but since you have indulged some others, i should like to express a very brief view. i fully respect your personal choice. on the matter of the vote, you have given the correct interpretation. i entirely regret this result, but one must live as a democrat with due process. on behalf of the liberal democrat group, i would like to the european commission. it is clear that, in the form presented, the mergers and acquisitions (takeovers) directive, has now fallen. it is such a fundamental and important issue that i hope we do not abandon the attempt because of this difficulty. we must learn from the difficulty and i invite the commission at the earliest date to redouble its efforts to submit a new proposal, so that we can drive the lisbon reform forward. we cannot give a signal from this house that we are not concerned with fundamental economic dynamics in the european union. the council and the commission can help us in that regard. (applause)
madam president, in the interest of a democratic and just european union i ask the council to respect the irish people’s rejection of the treaty of nice by immediately halting further ratification. i also call on the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to ensure that the requirement for unanimity is upheld. i likewise request that all further ratifications stop. i, and those people i represent, support a united democratic europe and enlargement. i welcome, therefore, the commission’s confirmation of my understanding that enlargement can proceed without the ratification of the nice treaty. i believe that enlargement should proceed with all speed so that the accession countries can not only share in the benefits of european union membership, but also contribute fully to the debate on the kind of european union we hope to build. i support a full and open debate prior to the 2004 intergovernmental conference, but not in the form of a convention.
mr president, obviously my name is not al gore and this is not florida. i do not want to discuss the question of pregnant chads or whatever they were in florida, but like the other colleagues, i have looked at the written record and it shows 273 votes for, 272 votes against, contrary to the declaration of the result and the statistical evidence of earlier today. when, for once and with considerable effort, the liberal democrat group managed to vote as one and we find ourselves on the losing side of such a vote, it is all the more important to us to raise this issue. there may be various explanations of a technical sort and i should be interested if so, to hear them. but this touches on something of a very fundamental political nature, and merely technical responses to a record which shows a difference in votes may not be enough. i am aware of the rule which states that the president’s ruling on votes shall be final. at this moment, i do not insist on a particular outcome, although i reserve the right to continue questioning the technical and political dimensions. what i do ask, mr president, is whether you, on behalf of the presidency, are in a position consistent with rule 138, to make a clear declaration at this time as to what is the position and what is the result of the vote cast.
mr president, when i spoke earlier i said i should like to reserve the right to speak again. i was personally aware of the explanation, which you have now given publicly. it is an unfortunate technical slip-up, but i accept it was an honest mistake. i also accept the declaration, albeit reluctantly. but if it is merely a technical slip-up, it would be a political mistake to call a conference of presidents for the purpose of dealing in a political organ of the house with something for which there is a perfectly reasonable technical explanation. i shall not attend such a meeting because it seems to me you should make a ruling from the chair and we should be done with the matter.
i would like, first of all, to compliment mrs jackson for raising this oral question. it has already been mentioned that the conference for climate change will be held in bonn from 16-27 july 2001. we know that the us government and the european union could not reach agreement in the netherlands before christmas on setting a timetable for the reduction of the use of greenhouse gases. equally, it is very clear that the us government is getting cold feet on the kyoto agreement. this is very disappointing. there is clear and unequivocal scientific evidence that demonstrates the effect of climate change. surely, the us and the european union governments can agree on one item, and that is simply that the use of greenhouse gases depletes the ozone layer which results in higher sea levels and more coastal erosion, and affects the living environment of island communities. i am calling on the european governments which will be represented in bonn to use this conference as an opportunity to tell the us that this is not good enough, and that the full provisions of the kyoto agreement must be implemented: under the agreement alone, the us government would be required to cut emissions by approximately one-third by the year 2012.
i should like to thank the president-in-office for her willingness to go over time and take extra questions. i wish her well during the presidency and hope that her relationship with the members will be as open and blunt as it has been this afternoon. specifically on my supplementary, there is a major concern about the medical councils in the member states and, in particular, for my own country, ireland, with regard to ensuring minimum standards of training and qualification for doctors and other people in the medical profession. as we move towards enlargement of the european union, with the accession of new member states, and extend freedom of movement opportunities to countries outside of the accession countries to deal with shortfalls of medical personnel across the european union, we consider that experts in the field from the existing member states must be included in any such consultation process.
i would like to say that our group very much supports this report. we think it is excellent. the mining sector’s track-record leaves a lot to be desired, not just in europe, but in eastern europe and worldwide. one of the very important things in this report is the need for a future directive on mining waste. it should cover both operational and abandoned sites and disposal and contain provisions for mining waste action programmes as well as provisions to facilitate more sustainable extraction: site cleaning, waste reduction, and dry-tailing disposal in the case of metal mining waste. mining companies need to establish decommissioning plans for new and existing mines and tailing ponds. i just have to look at it in my own country where mining companies have come in and basically taken what they want. they then leave the mess behind to be cleaned up. as mr bowe said, there may be "historical" mining sites of interest, but we are really talking about tailing ponds which contain many dangerous substances. local communities have to live with that and, in some areas, even farming has been affected because the mining companies leave their mess behind, affecting not just the water supplies but also the land in general. we really have to take into account all sectors in the community. the mining industry has got away with it for far too long. we really need an extremely tight clampdown on how mining industries operate and a future directive on mining waste is extremely important. i would just like to finish by saying that the report itself is excellent and i hope that it gets full support. i would also like to confirm that our group would be reluctant to support the amendment proposed by the ppe group for the reasons just mentioned by other speakers.
rapporteur. – mr president, the principles of integrated coastal zone management are accepted worldwide as a mechanism to enable sustainable management of coastal areas. europe is currently well behind other developed nations in implementing them. for instance, the us, canada, australia and new zealand have all implemented major legislation to progress integrated management of coastal and marine areas. chapter 17 of agenda 21 commits coastal signatories to integrated management and sustainable development of coastal areas. the eu’s demonstration programme on integrated management of coastal zones, funded by life, has proved that implementation of integrated coastal zone management results in both economic and environmental benefits. the eu should be taking advantage of these benefits. the coastal zone requires special management. there is an urgent need to integrate planning and management and promote collaborative working of marine and terrestrial assistance at local, regional and national levels. through good practices of coastal zone management, we should work towards sustainable management of the coastal zone. europe should provide specific leadership to ensure good management of the coast. this will only be possible if the integrated coastal zone management process is backed up with appropriate legislation. the eu must establish a legal framework to enable action at other levels. this recommendation should be seen as a first stage in the development of that framework. i am astonished at some of the opposition to the idea of binding legislation because it is essential to secure adequate funding for integrated coastal zone management initiatives across europe. integrated coastal zone management initiatives usually focus on a central coordinating mechanism which requires comparatively low levels of core funding. yet the integrated coastal zone initiatives already in existence are floundering, due mainly to lack of financial support. for instance, the eu-funded integrated coastal zone management projects such as the atlantic living coastline in the uk and others have since ceased. the uk initiative and the severn estuary strategy, involving 12 local authorities, have only secured funding for the next six months. member states should adopt binding measures to ensure good coastal zone management. this should happen not later than three years after the adoption of the current recommendation on integrated coastal zone management. this would be preceded by a national stock-taking to analyse which actors, laws and institutions influence the planning and management of the coastal zone in order to ensure convergence of public bodies and local initiatives, to be completed by the end of december 2002. in my own country, the bantry bay coastal zone chart is the only agreed integrated coastal zone management plan in the whole of the country at the present time. even in countries such as the uk, where the eu programmes have funded some of the most important coastal zone management and regeneration projects, local authorities are unable to give priority to funding integrated coastal zone management actions because of the absence of a national policy framework, statutory duties, responsibilities or adequate funding. for this reason local authorities strongly support eu leadership to ensure cross-european commitment by national governments to give funding and legislative support in this field. some people have criticised me for saying that i want to give the eu more power in this area. my colleague, mr davies – who is not here tonight – has criticised me in committee. i was beginning to wonder if i was the euro-sceptic or was he? in relation to environmental protection, it is extremely important that the eu is given some sort of control. in my own country the government failed to take recommendations and even directives seriously and implement them in a way that actually achieves their original aim. a recommendation is basically non-binding. so you will have the situation where member states do not take seriously the management of a coast. we cannot say that if we manage our own coasts, that is sufficient. it has a knock-on effect in other areas, especially where there are shared coastlines. it is completely unacceptable that some member states have a very good integrated coastal zone management strategy and plans, whereas other countries do not. that is completely unfair. when it comes to environmental issues we need an international approach. there is no point in trying to tackle it at only a national level. as everyone knows, environmental issues cross all boundaries. there is no such thing as national borders. in this area we are not saying that we want to hand over total control to europe but we need binding legislation. otherwise governments just ignore it. recommendations are just something that they comply with if it suits them, but not if they do not. in relation to coastal zones it is extremely important. europe has experienced a great increase in pressures on coastal resources. from 1960 to 1990 it has been estimated that one kilometre of unspoilt coastline has been developed every day and 30 hectares of dune habitat have disappeared every day. coastal populations have also further increased and, at present, about 50% of the eu’s population lives within 50 kilometres of the coast. so there really is an urgent need to tackle coastal zone management. the draft recommendation leaves out a very important issue in that it fails to identify the threatened biodiversity of our coastal zones. the coastal zone is one of the most dynamic areas of the earth’s surface with an abundance of unique flora and fauna which need to be protected. this has to be addressed. another issue is climate change. we can no longer ignore threats from climate change on coastal erosion. this has to be taken into account. everyone, at this stage, will recognise that climate change is having a major impact on our coastal areas. in the interests of all industries that rely on the coast we have to take action, and take it now. we can see the quick destruction of our coasts. this involves the destruction of industries that rely on our coasts such as tourism, fishing industries and others. it is important that something happens as a result of this recommendation, that there is some sort of legal framework. member states who are reluctant to do this do not want to face up to the fact that our coasts have to be protected. they want to "cop-out" of their responsibilities. this should not be allowed.
in writing. - (en) with regard to this year's sbs no 3, i would like to speak about an amendment which i tabled on behalf of the uen group in the committee on budgets, but which was unfortunately rejected. this amendment concerned the budget line a-3015 used to finance the european office for lesser spoken languages. i am glad to have the opportunity to explain my amendment. many of my colleagues are probably aware of the excellent work done by the bureau to promote the protection of less widely used and minority languages. this action is all the more important in the context of enlargement, given the cultural and linguistic diversity of many candidate countries. as many of my colleagues know, the commission is trying to impose conditions on the bureau for subsidies which would have the effect of closing its secretariat in dublin. the bureau was set up a few years ago on the initiative of the irish government and is still part-financed by it. initially, the secretariat was based entirely in dublin, although a few years ago an office was opened in brussels to manage relations with the european institutions. i have been in contact with the irish minister for linguistic affairs and i think it would be very difficult to maintain the same level of interest in the office in irish government circles if the office were forced to close its dublin office. some circles in northern ireland have also expressed concern about this as the bureau is active on the linguistic aspects of the good friday agreement. i believe that the commission wants to corrupt the will of parliament by imposing such conditions on the granting of grants and therefore i have proposed to include a direct reference to the dublin and brussels secretariats in the footnotes. once the new budgetary procedure starts next september, i will again seek your support to make this happen. today i simply wish to draw the attention of my colleagues to the machinations of the commission which, in my view, could have harmful consequences.
mr president, commissioner, first i would like to say how truly thrilled i was to hear that the belgian presidency has made the issue of children's rights part of its presidency programme. i would like to congratulate them warmly. we have great expectations of this presidency and we will be keeping a very steady eye on what is happening and on progress. i would also agree with mrs hermange who rightly pointed out that, up to very recently, children could not even be mentioned in this house. we were constantly told they were not part of the competence of the treaties and our concerns for their welfare were beyond the reach of this parliament. happily now we can discuss them. as long as i have been here in parliament we have observed the awful dangers that many children in the world live in: a litany of miseries which are listed in this resolution here today. not too far from here children are still viewed as disposable objects for international adoption, for example. we should hang our heads in shame that we have more legislation on the books of the european union relating to animal welfare than we have relating to the welfare of children. and lest anyone should attack me on that, i would like to say that i support animal welfare legislation as well. but the situation is shameful. there has been a political push forward. you will see in this resolution that we call, for example, for a dedicated unit in the commission looking at children's rights, looking at legislation so that we can assess its impact on the children and also on the lives of their families. it is with great pleasure that i commend this resolution to the house. i am happy to be one of the sponsors of sara méndez and her lost child. through my work in parliament i too have experienced the fact that so many children are deprived of the company and love of both their parents, very often due to selfishness and lack of understanding about the particular needs of children.
first of all, i would like to say that this is not anti-communism. it would be good if communism could co-exist with religious beliefs, and people should have the right to express their religious beliefs if they live in a communist country. it is quite clear that in vietnam that is not the situation. in the resolution, reference is made to two very old buddhist monks who spent two decades in detention under house arrest for their peaceful support for human rights, democracy and religious freedom. this is completely unacceptable. the problem in vietnam is also that domestic human rights monitoring is not allowed, and that independent human rights monitors continue to be prevented from visiting the country. we have to put pressure on vietnam to release all prisoners who are being imprisoned or detained for peacefully expressing their religious and political beliefs. we should also ask the vietnamese to stop harassment of prisoners and surveillance of prisoners who have actually been released. furthermore, they need to look at their criminal code sections on crimes against national security to ensure that these laws cannot be applied against those merely exercising their right to freedom of expression, as well as at the administrative detention directive which allows for the detaining of individuals for up to two years. this is completely unacceptable. one of the things i am disappointed with is that there was no reference to the recent decision of the vietnam national assembly backing the concept of a dam in the northern province, which might become southeast asia's largest hydro-power project, possibly involving the relocation of more than 100 000 people. i wish that they would take into consideration the international aspects of this in relation to the immense social and environmental problems that will be caused.
mr president, once again we are seeing the same situation. several member states are behind in their obligations to reduce their fleets and once again nothing is being done to improve matters. the next report, by mr nicholson on cod in the irish sea, clearly shows the failure of the present approach to fleet management. the commission is proposing to extend the magp by one more year in order to debate fleet policy in the context of the green paper. we support that. we think it is a good idea. however, there needs to be a major rethink about fleet policy. we would agree with the commission that fleets are too large and must be reduced. we also feel that the council should wake up and join the real world, because it seems to think that this is unnecessary. as a step in the right direction the greens support the idea of penalties for those countries which are not observing their legally binding commitments to reduce fleets. we must get serious about this problem and also look at the countries that are claiming to have met their obligations under the magp, to ensure that they are not transferring their vessels to other flags. we must ensure that they are doing what the magp intends they do in the long run.
madam president, i did not wish to speak at all but since the president of the pse group appears to be upset that i am doing too little to promote liberalism in europe by not having a resolution, i should point out to the honourable member that in my group we looked at the precedents. it is not the first time a commission president has attended a g8 meeting, or that a prime minister and president-in-office has attended a g8 or g7 meeting. the precedents will show the honourable member, as they showed me, that it is not our custom to promote our friends in politics by having resolutions after such meetings.
madam president, when i heard that poor mr blak was in trouble again i naturally rushed to see what could be done about it as quickly as possible. apparently denmark is now entering the digital age with television. consequently there has been a technical glitch with the reception of danish television here, which of course i shall immediately attempt to rectify. if my danish colleagues want a particular radio or television station, they must agree as to which particular one they want. this is a chance for my danish colleagues to get together in a spirit of harmony and decide what precisely they want and i naturally will facilitate that as quickly as possible.
madam president, a number of people have already raised issues relating to breaches of human rights and i also wish to raise a question of a serious breach of human rights. a human right that every single person in this house would support is the right of little children to go to school unhindered and unterrorised. as we speak in this house, four – five – and six-year-old children in a small area of belfast in northern ireland are being terrorised by so-called protests. i will not bore you with the arguments for and against these kinds of protests or the arguments of one side or the other – but these are political arguments between adults. this should not involve little children going to school. madam president, i would appeal to you to write to all the parties in northern ireland, and the irish and the british governments, to urge them to use every power and every means of persuasion at their disposal to stop these kinds of protests. let these little children go to school unhindered. it seems to me that there is a view that terrorism only consists of bombs, guns and bullets. but how will four-year-old children, going to school for the first day in their life remember that first day when they are surrounded by police who are armed because they need to protect them and who are seeking to provide them with a safe corridor to go into their classroom for their first day of school? it is an appalling situation and i would appeal to you to write to all the parties concerned. while i am on my feet, may i also make the point that there has been an historic breakthrough in northern ireland. as we all know, agreements to change things are not enough, there also has to be a change of heart. there has been a new agreement on policing in northern ireland which is fundamental to the peace agreement. the sdlp – the party led by john hume who is in this parliament – has given its support for the first time in the history of northern ireland to the police service there and they should be congratulated for that. (applause)
mr president, after 30 long years of negotiations, the employment and social affairs ministers managed to reach agreement last december on a statute for a european company. the creation of a european company has long been seen as essential to a comprehensive body of european company law which promotes business. in an increasingly globalised business environment, the arrival of the se is timely. capital moves easily across borders as multinational firms seek out the most attractive business locations. the union can achieve a great deal in the creation of a single market for goods, services and capital. there has long been a need to create a european company to complement this picture. members of this parliament hail from 15 different sovereign states and are aware that company law differs widely from one member state to another. i welcome the fact that this regulation foresees five different ways in which an se can be established. member states' company law allows for two different systems of company management. the regulation proposes that both systems be available in each country. hence companies will be able to choose the approach which best suits their needs. in view of the slow-down in the us economy and consequently the world economy, it is essential that we, as legislators, do all we can to facilitate business and job creation. the creation and management of european companies must take place with as few hindrances and bureaucratic obstacles as possible. companies must be afforded the flexibility they need to stay lean and move swiftly in a highly competitive environment. the rapporteur refers to taxation. it must be made clear that taxation policy is a matter for each member state and its national parliament. any proposal that corporate tax be paid by ses and could go into eu coffers is totally unacceptable. the irish government has a policy of low corporate tax to encourage investment. our 12.5% rate has proved itself by actually increasing tax revenue while at the same time promoting sustained growth. ireland could not countenance any suggestion of harmonising corporate tax rates, especially in this period of economic slow-down. i commend mr menrad and the committee on employment and social affairs for their work on employee rights. we in europe have long held that a partnership approach works best. companies are reliant on their employees. there must be no erosion of the workers' rights that have been won over time. a european company without participation in some form is unthinkable. there are a number of models of worker participation. it is positive that the regulation avoids a one-size-fits-all approach. in conclusion, the scale of employee participation will be decided through free negotiations between the companies concerned and the workers.
madam president, it is a matter of deepest concern and regret for us all that the prospects for a just and lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict has receded in recent months. we are all aware that the levels of violence have dangerously escalated and that the excessive and disproportionate use of force has resulted in the deaths of many innocent civilians. it is clear that commitments entered into by various parties, instead of being built upon, are in fact being reversed. the levels of violence and the levels of provocation have risen to new heights, and this is the primary reason why the parties are now no longer engaged in dialogue. dialogue is the only way forward if we are to end the violence in the middle east at this time. where dialogue does not take place, the gap is only filled by mutual misunderstandings and ritual condemnations and fear. one of the primary challenges now for the european union and the broader international community is to ensure that there is a resumption of an active and effective mediation process within the middle east. there is an urgent need for a third-party monitoring system to be appointed in an effort firstly to end the violence which is taking place now on a daily basis, and secondly to resume peace talks. it is also time that the obstacles to the implementation of the mitchell report were removed. we should recall for a moment that the key findings of this fact-finding committee include the following recommendations: the government of israel and the palestinian authority should reaffirm existing agreements and immediately cease violence; there should be a resumption of security cooperation; there should be establishment of a meaningful cooling-off period and incitement in all forms should be discouraged.
madam president, president-in-office, commissioner, the spiralling level of violence in the middle east blinds us to the fact that it was not so very long ago that, instead of the current feelings of despair, there was optimism and hope that a permanent peace could be achieved. unfortunately these hopes were to be cruelly shattered and it is hard to forget that the present intifada arose directly from the unnecessary and provocative visit by mr sharon to the temple mount in jerusalem. however, nothing justified the subsequent acts of terrorism by either side, and in the current highly charged emotional situation, with the areas of conflict so widespread, it is very difficult to see a cease-fire emerging. it is clear that the only way of breaking the current deadlock is through the intervention of a third party. the only feasible third party would be a team of international observers. we know this is acceptable to the united nations and the palestinians, but regrettably it has been rejected by the israelis. the united states has endorsed the israeli position. regrettably its blind allegiance is paradoxically damaging to israel's cause. instead of being a puppet of the israelis, the us should be independent and use its influence to pressurise them to end their violence, just as we, in the eu, must use our influence with the palestinians to do likewise. if both we and the us work together in common cause, there is just a possibility that we could halt the continuing slide into regional conflict and restore peace negotiations once again on the basis of the mitchell recommendations. that should continue to be our primary objective.
mr president, since our debate last year on enlargement, there has been very considerable and commendable progress. during this past year, several of the states in the helsinki group have already in effect caught up with those in the earlier luxembourg group. it is a year where the emphasis and the élan which was brought to this task by the swedish presidency has borne fruit. this is a process that i am sure will be continued and deepened by our friends in the belgian presidency. i welcome the fact that the european council, with the encouragement of the european commission, adopted the date of the next european election as a target timetable, all the while emphasising and respecting the fact that we should continue with a case by case analysis based on differentiation. it may well indeed be possible that ten states could be ready by that time and if that is the case, that would be very welcome. but we should not impose on those who are ready by that time the burden and failures of those who may not be and therefore we must still cleave to this notion of differentiation as the leitmotif through which we should analyse the outcomes. there is a very disquieting level of public support indicated by opinion polls. the commissioner is right in that we should not get carried away excessively by following every poll but when they are so consistent, underneath it there is a message. and again i would congratulate the commission in the past 12 months on the deepening and extension of the information and communications policy. but it is very clear that that alone will not be enough. we need political leadership and political vision. we need the big picture to be put in place to convince people what the nature of this historic project is of. in that regard there is the question of the free movement of labour. i am bound to say on behalf of my own group that the liberal democrats here in this house are unhappy at the pace with which the thought of having a systematic ban on the free movement of labour became the politique acquise. we think that indeed there may be a burden but more empiricism and more reflection may have helped. at the end of the day whether it is realpolitik or empiricism that brings us to this conclusion, my group would appeal that each member state would reflect on its own position and where possible would opt out from this particular policy. already i understand four states, ireland, denmark, sweden and netherlands have given such an indication. i would appeal to other states to do so. but inside this there is another real issue. the frontline border regions are the regions of our european integration process. we here in this house must express our concern for an enhancement of regional policy focus in those places because these regions will carry the most immediate consequence of enlargement. this solidarity is something we must inject into this debate, as europeans, with greater vigour and not simply leave it to local or national interests to make the case. on the question of the current state of the enlargement debate, i meet many friends in the candidate states in politics and diplomacy who worry about various tensions that have emerged. my own sense is to say to them they should take reassurance from this. we are now getting real. the shadow boxing has finished and these tensions reflect the reality that we are now in a vigorous process. finally three very quick points which i do not have the time to develop. i should like to be reassured by the commission that the failure to establish paying agencies for sapard in so many states for reasons which i understand will not mitigate against the carryover of funding that we have dedicated for structural agricultural reform. secondly, i welcome what the commissioner had to say on cyprus and kaliningrad. i salute what he says about the optimum desires for cyprus and i hope the un process will take off with his and others' encouragement but we must remember never to make the best the enemy of the good. finally, on the question of the irish referendum, the message given both by the council and the commission today is an important one. yes there may be legal means to get us over the legal niceties but there is within this a political signal and message and the signal must be, that however we may criticise the nice treaty, and we all do, we must get over that hurdle as a precondition politically not to do with enlargement but to do it ourselves.
mr president, the enlargement of the european union is an irreversible process. we must be quite clear about this. the conclusions of the göteborg summit of eu leaders with regard to the enlargement negotiations and the accession process stated that the road map should make it possible for those countries that are ready to complete negotiations by the end of 2002. i am confident that, under the belgian presidency of the european union, extensive progress will be made with regard to the enlargement negotiations. key chapters of discussions which it was said will be opened during the belgian presidency include competition policy, transport, energy, taxation, customs union, veterinary and hygiene aspects of agriculture, fisheries, justice and home affairs, and financial control. the aim of concluding the enlargement negotiations with the more advanced countries by the end of 2002 is an achievable objective. the leading candidates are provisionally closing chapters at an impressive rate and the leading candidate country, cyprus, now has 23 chapters concluded. but it is equally important that the european union and the applicant countries get down to negotiating the more difficult chapters of talks, which to date have remained closed. it is in the interests of all contracting parties that the bottom line issues that remain outstanding are debated, resolved and finalised. we must all continue to play an active and constructive role in the enlargement process. the enlargement of the union is an economic and political opportunity for europe. the expansion of the single market should be of real and tangible interest to european exporters and to indigenous european companies seeking investment abroad. on a continental level, the enlargement of the european union will contribute to further stability. an enlarged union will be able to play a more positive and influential role internationally, both politically and economically. it will help to consolidate democratic and civil structures in eastern and central europe. it will contribute to the development of greater free market economies. our input into organisations such as the world trade organisation would be very much strengthened by the enlargement of the european union. as an irish member of the european parliament, i would like to take this opportunity of restating that the result of the nice treaty referendum in ireland should not be interpreted or construed as a vote against the enlargement of the european union. irish public opinion is strongly in favour of the enlargement process, as indicated by a recent eurobarometer poll which found that 59% of the irish people were in favour of the enlargement of the union. this figure is the second highest amongst the 15 member states of the european union. hopefully this eurobarometer poll will be reflected when the irish electorate next have an opportunity of making a decision on the issue.
in writing. - mr president, like many of my colleagues, i was very pleased to see that after 30 years of negotiations and many false starts, we had finally reached a compromise text on the statute of the european company. i fully supported the text as adopted by the council. however, i was and am totally opposed to the amendments adopted in favour of tax harmonization. we all want companies to have the capacity to operate on a european basis in a common regulatory system. this has the potential to create jobs and help economic development in the union. over the past decade, ireland has gradually reduced its tax burden, leading to increased employment, an increase in the budget surplus and continued sustainable growth. i am opposed to the standardisation or harmonisation of taxation; these issues can and must be addressed by coordinated action.
mr president, i should like to thank and congratulate all the rapporteurs. to pick up on something mr haarder has already mentioned, our duty and responsibility is to the countries of eastern europe, not because of the gift that we give them but because of the new enthusiasm and spirit that they can bring into what is becoming a stagnating european union. in particular i want to focus on hungary. as one of the leaders and front runners for enlargement, it has proved itself capable of throwing off the yoke of totalitarian communism and building a new market-based economy, creating new opportunities in education, improving its infrastructure and industrial capacity and developing its tourism and agriculture. it has already completed 22 of its 31 chapters of accession to the european union. i welcome the implementation of the sapard programme to help further rural development and community development within hungary. in particular, i call upon the commission to help alleviate some of the difficulties the hungarian negotiators are facing with internal bureaucracies within the commission and speed up that whole process. in conclusion, we must open our arms and welcome the rejuvenation that the arrival of the countries from central and eastern europe will bring about.
mr president, i am pleased to participate in this important debate on the enlargement of the european union and in particular to acknowledge progress on malta's application for membership. this house was pleased when in september 1998 the government of malta informed the presidency of its intention to reactivate malta's application and since then, with the structures put in place by the government, malta has demonstrated its sincerity and determination to become part of an integrated and enlarged europe. coming as i do from a small island state similar to malta, i can testify to the eu's commitment to the development of small and underdeveloped peripheral regions. in my view, despite the many criticisms, the vision of europe's founding fathers continues to be realised. i look forward to the participation of malta and other applicant countries in the europe of the new millennium. it is worth noting that by june 2001 malta had closed negotiations on over 17 different chapters, including important issues ranging from education and training to telecommunications, fisheries and consumer protection.
i thank the commissioner for her very comprehensive and most informative reply.
i thank the commissioner for his response. however, i was looking for something more specific, if possible, under three headings. firstly, what consultation before the money is made available has been organised with research foundations, for instance universities, private research foundations and so on? secondly, will outside technical assistance be used in the operation of the programme? if there will be outside technical assistance, who will be operating it? thirdly, on the evaluation by the commission and the eib: is the evaluation purely based on economic return from the work or is it to ensure that there is ground- breaking scientific work which may not have an immediate economic return but could potentially in five or ten years time? those three areas are of vital importance to people who are involved in cutting-edge technology that we do not know about today but will be using in ten or fifteen years' time.
mr president, very briefly i want to thank the commissioner and congratulate him on the progress he is making in the particular area of poverty reduction. it is a terribly important area but in the new acp-eu partnership agreement there is a special reference to the tackling of corruption. in the context of poverty reduction, what progress is the commission making in tackling corruption? one of the things i noticed throughout the acp-eu partnership debate was the lack of emphasis on education. the importance of education cannot be underlined enough. it is extremely important that, in the tackling of poverty reduction, education is given a high priority. would the commissioner agree with this particular statement?
commission. – i will start by quoting the last part of the question – 'would the commission ensure the introduction of binding human rights legislation to hold companies accountable for their activities overseas either directly or through affiliates?' i would react by warning against rushing into the principle of extra-territoriality in our legislation. i have a clear impression of this house's strong opinion concerning the helms-burton act with its extra-territoriality and the problems it creates. it is necessary to approach this with caution. as regards sudan, we are following the political situation closely and we are actively participating in the political dialogue between the eu and sudan that was resumed in november 1999. despite continued concerns about the human rights situation and the lack of progress in the peace process, the political dialogue is considered to be generally positive and it has been agreed to continue it for another year. the commission supports initiatives in favour of human rights in sudan and is planning a study to prepare a more comprehensive strategy in this area. the commission is aware that economic issues, like sharing sudan's oil wealth, play an ever increasing role in the conflict. so one could say that the development of this oil sector has raised the stakes for the peace negotiations. hopefully it could be turned into an asset for that peace negotiation process. the commission is aware of the accusations that many people living near the oil concessions have been forced to leave and that they have been exposed to human rights abuses. we believe that there is no doubt that militias armed by the government to protect the oil fields and militias supported by the splm are involved in human rights violations. however no accurate independent and objective information is available to confirm a large-scale scorched earth policy organised and implemented by the government. as regards a possible investment ban, the commission doubts the utility of unilateral sanctions as a foreign policy tool. we are convinced that a policy of engagement rather than isolation is the best way to have our concerns heard and expectations met. as far as legislation is concerned, the commission already promotes respect of human rights by eu companies wherever they operate, in particular through the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises. this instrument, although not legally binding, entails strong recommendations by 33 governments to their multinational enterprises to operate in a socially responsible manner worldwide. it is clear that this is not the same as what is asked for in the question but having broad international support for these principles is in any case necessary to promote efficiency. i believe this is the best way of proceeding.
i will be brief. i do not see the relevance of this idea of ex-territoriality. we are talking about major european oil companies and they should be held accountable for their activities. we must not forget that the money and the profits that are being made by these companies are coming back into europe. major european companies have to be accountable in how they operate in other parts of the world. if there was binding legislation that major european companies had to adhere to, then you would not have the situation we have at present. this does not just concern major oil companies, it also concerns other european multinationals which ignore their responsibilities for human rights, for the environment and for basic civil liberties. they are making huge profits and we here are benefiting from those profits. we have to address that issue.
rapporteur. – mr president, the advent of competition in the air transport sector has certainly resulted in the lowering of prices of air travel for the 370 million consumers of the european union. however, there is a growing dissatisfaction among air travellers with regard to the quality of service which they are receiving from many airlines within the eu. it is very important that air passengers are fully aware of their legal rights when problems arise with flights. these are matters which i am addressing in my report. we cannot deny that the issue of developing deep-vein thrombosis is not a serious concern for air passengers. i am calling on the european commission as a matter of urgency to allocate more monies from the eu research budget to carry out an independent evaluation of the possible public health risks for air passengers travelling on long-haul flights. this includes the need to carry out a comprehensive study into the whole issue of deep-vein thrombosis. i am calling on the european commission to carry out this independent research in consultation with eu airline companies and eu consumer groups. i believe that european union airlines should not be afraid of addressing the issue of deep-vein thrombosis. the solution to this problem may not be as hard as some eu airlines may envisage. it is very important that passengers are fully informed as to what they should do to guarantee that deep-vein thrombosis will not develop. european union airlines, consumer groups and air crew workers must all work together to guarantee that all public health issues concerning air travel are fully addressed. safer travel for air passengers in europe must at all times be the ultimate objective for eu governments and eu airlines. i have nothing in principle against the implementation of voluntary codes of practice for european union airlines. however it is very important that any codes of practice which are drawn up by eu airlines are fully evaluated and monitored to ensure that they are rigorously enforced. while voluntary agreements play an important role with regard to the whole issue of air travel, eu institutions and eu governments must not be afraid to intervene and legislate on issues to promote and protect air passenger rights. in this report i am calling on the european commission to bring forward specific proposals outlining how the charter of passenger rights in europe can be marketed to a greater extent. this will help to guarantee that all air passengers in europe are kept fully informed as to their legal rights with regard to air travel. this charter of passenger rights currently exists in european union airports but many passengers are not fully aware of its existence or do not fully understand its provisions. this report includes a proposal calling on european union airlines to inform passengers of the percentage degree seat pitch available to passengers travelling in economy class. it is clearly the case that there is more room available for economy class passengers travelling with some airlines than with others. i am also calling on the european union and the airlines to improve access for disabled passengers, children and the elderly and to prohibit european union airlines from charging an extra fee for assisting persons who are immobile onto any aeroplane within the european union. finally i believe that this report had the broad support of the political groups within parliament's committee on transport. i am hopeful and confident that the european commission will now bring forward the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that passenger rights for the citizens of the european union are greatly improved as a matter of urgency.
mr president, we welcome the fact that the report recognises and accepts that echelon exists. this is something that the green group stated a long time ago in this parliament and we have now been vindicated. however, the report fails to draw any political conclusions. it is also extremely hypocritical in that it criticises the echelon interception system, while at the same time we are planning to establish a european secret service. in other words, it is not that there is a problem with this system as such, it is just that the eu wants to be able to do the same and have its own system. the report naively gives the impression that if you have some sort of democratic control, all will be okay. it is a well known fact that there is no effective public control mechanism of secret services and their undemocratic activities anywhere in the world. by their very nature, secret services cannot be controlled and therefore we, as members of this parliament, who claim to be concerned about human rights and basic civil liberties, should be questioning their very existence. but, on the contrary, the report serves to legitimise a european secret service which will inevitably infringe fundamental rights in the same way as the echelon system. the temporary committee and the report focus mainly on the threat to european industrial competition and the threat posed by industrial espionage. but this is not the vital and fundamental issue. the real issue at stake, which is totally lost in this report, is that nobody can communicate in confidence any more. this is the real threat to us all. political spying is a greater threat than economic spying. recently there have been reports in british newspapers which point out that european leaders have ordered police and intelligence agencies to coordinate their efforts to identify and track anti-capitalist demonstrators. this will give a green light to secret services to put under surveillance people whose activities are entirely democratic and legal. whole political and social scenes will be criminalised. very private information about people will be accessible to police and secret services without those people having any say or control. the report goes to great lengths to push these kinds of dangers under the carpet. it also ignores the plans that are forging ahead on the enfopol interception system in the eu. we, as members of the european parliament, should be demanding that people’s freedoms and the right to privacy, as enshrined in article 8 of the european convention and article 6 of the eu treaty, are protected and that people are not forced to live under permanent control where the possibility exists that every communication they make will be accessible to unknown forces. finally, the report lets the uk off the hook. it should have requested at the very least that the uk dissociate itself from the management of the echelon system and it should also have asked germany to close down the interception base which is located on its territory. these member states, which are collaborating, were let off the hook totally.
mr president, this report is of the utmost importance to the citizens of europe. this report should receive the widest possible dissemination throughout the community. it is a complex and difficult report that should impact clearly on each and every citizen, so that they can understand precisely what parliament is trying to accomplish on their behalf. it does credit to the chairman of the committee on citizens’ freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs, mr watson. we will be voting in favour but, nonetheless, we will do so with reservations on many of the paragraphs and recommendations. no doubt we will revisit the subject after consultation with our national parliaments and citizens’ groups. we must define exactly and precisely what we mean by terrorism. we must not confuse terrorism with peaceful protests, with legal and lawful protests by the citizen. there are a number of paragraphs that we have reservations about but, despite these reservations which we will probably revisit in subsequent discussions and debates on the issue, we will be voting in favour of this. i congratulate mr watson and all concerned in putting together this report.
madam president, my group voted for the watson report, which is an excellent and very comprehensive one. but it proposes very radical changes which can potentially pose problems for some of the member states, particularly those in the front line of terrorism. without a clear and mutually accepted definition of terrorism, states must be able to take whatever measures they deem appropriate to deal with these serious threats. however, this does not preclude the member states from identifying those areas where there are difficulties in cooperation between member states and finding ways to improve such cooperation. effective measures need to be introduced to prevent the formation and activities of violent groups in europe and collaboration between such groups. i commend mr watson on his report.
in writing. - extradition procedures between member states cannot be abolished in practice without the existence of minimum procedural law standards to guarantee fundamental rights. the rejection of the amendment tabled by the greens/efa group, which requires member states to obtain such an agreement, means that this serious and important report is fundamentally flawed. it is so vitally important to the citizens of europe that unfortunately it prevented me from voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - (de) the report by mr hannes swoboda on the commission proposal on the eco-points system for heavy goods vehicles passing through austria contains in its conclusion - namely the rejection of the commission document - my full agreement and that of my group colleagues. we agree with the rapporteur's argument that the thresholds for road transit through austria should be maintained, since the initial objectives of protocol no 9 on road, rail and combined transport have not yet been achieved. these objectives were to reduce nitrogen emissions, noise emissions and barriers to transport safety. on the contrary, we are seeing a growing trend in transit traffic, which on the main route taken by lorries, namely the inn valley and brenner pass, increased by 16% between 1993 and 2000 - in total, across austria, they increased by 52% or 580,188 crossings! the european threshold for nitrogen dioxide of 40 milligrams per cubic metre is consistently exceeded, including the tolerance margin, at the vomp measuring station on the a12 motorway. this is also the case in other alpine valleys, crossed by transit routes. consequently, despite some reductions in harmful emissions linked to technical improvements in the trucks, we have seen an overall increase in co2 emissions. to achieve the objectives initially set for a sustainable reduction in emissions of harmful substances, we also need a limitation in the volume of lorry transit passages. for these reasons we are in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal. i would like to make a proposal in the context of our debate: we should undertake, on the swiss model, the construction of railways for the transit of lorries through austria.
madam president, in relation to the enlargement reports – not just mr brok’s report, but also those on the individual applicant states – it is interesting to see that mr brok has recognised the rejection of the nice treaty in ireland. he has confirmed what we have said all along, that basically the nice treaty is not necessary for enlargement. enlargement can go ahead without the nice treaty. it is deplorable that our own government is trying to force people to change their minds. in relation to the accession reports on the individual states, i have grave concern about the emphasis on the common foreign and security aspect, the fact that countries are being coerced into joining nato. the report on malta, for example, deplores the fact that malta is divided on the issue of membership. i believe it is up to the maltese themselves to decide on whether or not they want to join. if there is a clear division, then there should be a free choice. in malta, ireland is being used as an example of how you can be a member of the european union and a wonderful economic success and still remain neutral. all of this is false. we have to stop dangling artificial carrots in front of the applicant states and be honest. ireland is no longer neutral. it is cooperating in common foreign and security and defence policy. ireland’s economic success is not solely down to the eu, as many economic experts will tell you.
in writing. - a romanian tv crew recently asked me if i was serious when i said that conditions in romanian orphanages could jeopardise the eu accession process. these young journalists were struck by the concern that many of us had about all aspects of childcare in romania. our concerns about child trafficking - as the world was coming to romania in search of children - were relegated to the background by the desperation of parents seeking to adopt a child, the clear indication that many of those who facilitated the commercial trafficking have entered the political arena in romania, and, of course, the countries whose nationals lobbied for open adoption, including the united states. baroness nicholson has highlighted these issues in her excellent report and has finally alerted the romanian authorities through her concerns. it is hoped that its report will result in the radical changes needed to protect children.
mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office for her answer, if you could call it that. the specific point that i raised in my question, which i thought would be self-evident, was that because of sudden downturns in the economy in america and other parts of the world, there is increasing pressure being put on small and medium-sized enterprises in a very strict and rigorously competitive market. therefore, i was somewhat heartened by the daring-to-risk-going-bust attitude of the conference because that would give us experience to know the main reasons why small and medium-size enterprises fail, whilst at the same time recognising that they are the biggest engine of growth within the overall european union economy, creating something like 82% of employment and representing 74% of all manufacturing. hence my question to the president-in-office about the council’s position: what actions can be taken to ensure the continuance of this very strong sector? in particular how can entrepreneurs learn from mistakes and failures, and if they fail once, be encouraged to continue and learn from those mistakes?
i note that the president-in-office has referred to the discussions which she hopes will come to a fruitful and successful conclusion. i would add that i hope it will also be a fair conclusion. in addition, i am pleased that she has referred to discards. this has to be top priority because too many fish that are taken aboard vessels are discards – and then it is much too late. i would ask the president-in-office whether she would take into consideration the initiative taken by both ireland and the uk in relation to technical conservation measures and see that some effort is made by all countries to try to ensure that the smaller fish are not taken on board. you referred to the point that relative stability and special unique circumstances cannot be taken into consideration. we are now 20 years on and if we continue with the same principle as we had in 1983 then small countries like ireland will be worse off. we have to be pragmatic about this. the council, the council of ministers, the presidency have to take into consideration that in ireland the coastal regions have no alternative source of employment. it is a peripheral area, an objective 1 area. those regions must be taken into consideration. i would ask the president-in-office to keep an open mind.
i thank the president-in-office for her positive response and for outlining the present position with regard to my question. alternative fuels have been a live agenda item in this parliament for a number of years but we do not seem to be any closer to a practical outcome. it is obvious that hydrogen energy represents an alternative to fossil fuels, but there are other possible alternatives, such as bio-energy, which is relevant to sustainable land use. can the president-in-office give the house an update on research in these areas and how soon we can expect a positive breakthrough in the area of alternative fuels?
mr president, i should like to join in congratulating the rapporteurs on their work. obviously the whole area of new technologies is one that has presented us with many problems as well as boundless opportunities. unfortunately, however, as with most new opportunities, these have been hijacked to a huge extent by people of criminal intent who use them for illicit means. therefore the onus is on us to ensure that we can put in place proper controls and measures, not with regard to access, but ensuring that parents can make certain their children will not be endangered by these new technologies and also that there is cooperation amongst the law enforcement agencies across the member states. i welcome the fact that in the reports there is a role for europol and eurojust as well as between the member states. i also welcome the establishment of the forum on cybercrime. this is an important area where we can bring all the actors together, including the manufacturers of equipment who can put in place certain things that can help us. finally, it is a forward looking plan when we look at cooperation with the united states of america and other countries throughout the world, to ensure that this new technology can be used for the benefit of all of mankind and not for those who want to avoid our legal structures.
mr president, there are two principal issues here: one is an adequate supply and the second is a safe supply. for the hundreds and thousands of haemophiliacs and all those patients with the whole range of immunodeficiency diseases, these are life threatening issues which they are faced with on a daily basis. while i agree – and no one disagrees in this house – that we must foster a culture of voluntary donations as the norm, as the ethos, in all our member states, i plead with this house not to specifically exclude paid donations. let us not exclude them for the rare blood groups and for the very scarce plasma and plasma products if they are needed to pay to ensure adequacy of supply. it is not a question of ‘if there is a shortage of supply’. there is one already. today 40-50% of plasma products used each year by european patients come from plasma donors who are compensated for their time and inconvenience for this lengthy process. these plasma products, particularly in the uk and ireland, are largely imported from the us from paid donors. the amendments to this directive, which were voted and passed by the environment committee, will have a major impact on public health. they will prevent the remuneration of donors in any circumstances and preclude importation of plasma and plasma products from paid donors. there is no longer any public health justification for imposing an absolute requirement for all donations to be non-remunerated. this was the case in the seventies and eighties but it is no longer with our screening and sterilisation process. commissioner byrne, i would like to put a question specifically to you and maybe you could answer it in your reply: do the amendments which were passed in the environment committee violate eu law, particularly various sections of article 152? i draw your attention to article 152(5) which prevents community action from affecting national provisions on the donation of blood. do the amendments actually violate eu law? the doctors’ organisations, the patients’ organisations throughout europe are pleading with us not to specifically exclude paid donations. i congratulate mr nisticò on his excellent work and i commend amendment no 75 which gets the balance right.
mr president, i should like to start by congratulating my fellow committee members, mr bösch and mr perry, and also mrs almeida garrett, for their reports. also mr söderman for his continued unstinting defence of european citizenship. the approach of these reports is based on the need to create a system of transparency and understanding, so that citizens of the european union can be confident that when they have a legitimate complaint they have recourse to the ombudsman or the committee on petitions, depending on the nature of their problem. it is important that we clarify for the public the distinct functions of the two institutions and press for more publicity and a more effective information policy for both the ombudsman's office and parliament's petition process. i fully support the view that is necessary to incorporate the charter of fundamental rights into the treaties of the union, so as to further enhance the rights of citizens of europe. to succeed as the most progressive combination of states, we must ensure that our institutions are fully democratic and accountable and that the individual and collective rights of all are guaranteed and defended. i congratulate the ombudsman in particular for succinctly identifying – perhaps one of the few to have done so at european level – the underlying reason for the failure of the irish referendum and that is the gulf between rulers and ruled. there is absolutely no doubt in my view that that is the case and it has given rise to all kinds of concerns. the bösch report quite rightly praises the cooperation between parliament and the committee on petitions and the ombudsman's office and the invaluable procedure of referring complaints to the committee on petitions where they fall outside his remit. i welcome the ombudsman's suggestion that there be a much closer working relationship between the committee on petitions and the ombudsman's office with regard to the legal implications of some of the cases that come before us. the perry report is another piece of important work and, as the ombudsman has said, it is appropriate that mr perry, the author of the report, is given a role in initiating the whole idea of a code of conduct at european level. it is essential that a common code of conduct applies in all our institutions, so that citizens are not baffled or bamboozled by the response of our institutions to their problems and complaints.
mr president, the fact that over 10 000 petitions have been received by the committee on petitions since its inception clearly demonstrates the practical significance of the european union for its citizens. the work of the committee on petitions has often led to a successful conclusion for the citizen concerned and has in some cases resulted in changes to national law and practice in member states. the areas that present the greatest difficulties to individuals and groups of citizens continue to be social protection, healthcare, taxation and recognition of academic qualifications, particularly for citizens who work in states other than their own member states, such as in border regions. environmental complaints are also made on major developments where it is felt that their impact on the environment and the livelihoods of people in the areas affected is being ignored by the developers and in some cases by the authorities concerned. there have been many successes. for instance, an irish petitioner with a uk higher institute teaching qualification was refused the right to apply for a post in a state school. the commission took up this case on behalf of the petitioner and the committee on petitions and eventually won the case, having met strong resistance from the german authorities. that is the kind of success that can be achieved by the committee on petitions and we need more resources if the committee on petitions is to do its work effectively.
mr president, back in 1998 this parliament approved the five directives under discussion today with amendments. they have been referred back to us simply because there are some changes to the comitology procedure. i note with satisfaction that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has no objections to the revised procedure. it is, however, proposing new textual changes to the draft directive. the purpose of the directives is to simplify rules governing composition and labelling. we should therefore avoid complicating matters. political agreement has been reached on this issue after long and arduous negotiations and we should therefore avoid reopening the negotiations at all costs. i agree with changes that add clarity to texts but do not change the substance. one case in point is the inclusion of the definition of brown sugar. this would be an added protection for consumers. in relation to fruit juices, the proposed changes to the treatments and substances would be more appropriate within the horizontal legislation governing these treatments. the suggestion to introduce three new product names for fruit juices is not in line with proposals currently under discussion on the codex. furthermore, they will only serve to reopen the entire debate. i do not believe that substantial changes, if adopted by this house, will achieve anything. they will only serve to delay the procedure. if that happens, it is the consumers who will be the losers in the end.
mr president, i did not want to interrupt the vote earlier but i should like to refer back to the nisticò report. dr tannock drew to our attention the question of concern about the supply of blood and plasma products for haemophiliacs if the source of supply is outside the union. i am not well-informed on the facts of the matter but my impression was that his intervention was based on verifiable facts rather than simply issues of political preference. when we deal with legislation which intimately affects human health we must exercise great care and attention. i ask you, mr president, to ask the services to prepare a note on the facts of this matter so we can bring it to the attention of our colleagues in the groups. i fear we may have voted in error.
mr president, i would like to make explanations of vote on two reports combined: on the cappato and cederschiöld reports. i voted against both these reports. there is a great danger, first of all, in relation to the blanket retention of information on users. it raises serious questions about civil liberties. with cybercrime we have the situation where new forms of crime are being created. the lack of attention to civil liberties, the lack of attention to people's basic right to privacy is being overlooked. there is a great danger here that in future we will have a society where people are afraid to communicate and use modern technology because they know that their communications will be intercepted, listened to, and be in the hands of people who have no right to them. before we start looking at bringing in legislation in these areas we should first of all ensure that people's basic rights and civil liberties are protected. both are enshrined in the european convention on human rights and in the eu treaties. the emphasis here is to use scare-tactic arguments such as the issue of paedophilia, terrorism, drugs or arms trafficking. these are issues which are very emotive. people are very willing to allow legislation to be put in place and oppressive measures to be brought in because they are concerned about these issues. the fact that i voted against does not mean to say that i am not concerned about these issues. but first and foremost we must protect people's basic civil liberties as enshrined in international law. we should not overlook that. what kind of a society will we have if people's basic rights are overlooked in the combating of other crimes? there are a lot of similarities between the two. we have to remember that.
mr president, in one minute you can say very little but i concur with what mr van orden, mrs kinnock and many of the other speakers have said. i was in what was then rhodesia in the 1960s and there was a great deal of injustice in that country at that time. we had such great hopes for president mugabe. we thought we had in him a liberal, serious, intelligent leader. unfortunately, as we see the developing chaos and threats of famine and the destruction of the economy, we can but mourn the fact that he did not fulfil the hopes we had of him. i agree that the smart sanctions are the way to go, because already the ordinary people of zimbabwe are suffering grievously, as they watch their country disintegrate into chaos. i urge all colleagues to support this resolution.
mr president, i want to thank mr ebner for a very comprehensive and stimulating report. we could return to the subject at a later stage in another way and produce some costings and a tighter, more comprehensive proposal as to how we will put the ideals expressed in this report into effect. we have to consider too that we will have a conflict. firstly there is the size of the budget we have and enlargement, which will also lead to an increase in the mountainous area within the european union, while at the same time we refuse to produce any resources to finance the very idealistic proposals in this report which most people in this house would subscribe to. in parts of the european union at this moment people drive two hours to work in their cars, two hours home and live in overcrowded circumstances. all the utilities are over-utilised while in other areas we are closing down public services. roads are under-utilised, we are withdrawing police stations and closing down little churches and schools. we in the european union should not make the mistake the americans made. we should not abandon vast areas of our countries, where human activity will fade away. these mountains will not be attractive if there are no villages, if there are no variable scenes of farms and livestock and people living there. they will not provide the tourist amenities we need in the future. if we allow this to happen, it will be like what we did in my country 50 years ago when we closed down our railways. we will regret it in 40 or 50 years from now. if we lose these areas as habitats for human beings and everything that goes with that then europe will be so much the poorer and we will regret it. we should fight within the european union because individual states have failed. i was in scotland during the summer and i have seen the extent to which the highlands have been denuded of their population. britain is much the poorer for that. if we allow this to happen elsewhere we will have a europe that will be much poorer. we should return to this subject later and make firm proposals for the budgetary resources that we, as a union, could use towards this end.
madam president, president-in-office, president of the commission, colleagues, this is an important place in which to celebrate this important moment. we in this parliament are the tribune of the peoples of the european union and we have gathered here today to declare solemnly our outrage, our sympathy, our solidarity and our common bond in humanity and democracy with the people of the united states of america, and with the people of new york city and washington d.c. we witnessed yesterday a profoundly shocking event. it is a new and low threshold in the tide of human affairs. we witnessed an act of war – without a declaration of war – by persons, movements or states, as yet, not fully determined, but who acted with a grim and focused determination. we must make sure that our response is common and not isolated, shared and not unilateral, aimed at our common enemy, which is terrorism, but not at wider forces such as islam or the wider arab world, should that be the source whence this monster may have sprung. this modern apocalypse is america’s injury, but the wounds are universally shared among the community of democratic nations. to the people of the united states of america, to its president, its congressional and civic leaders, and its communities throughout the country, especially the peoples of new york and washington, to the grieving families of the missing and the dead and to those who have survived the ordeal, we express our sympathy in this hour of hardship and devastation. new york is a very special place. it is a multi-cultural microcosm of the whole world. it is a special gateway between our old continent and the new world. it was through ellis island that in earlier generations, before the spirit of democracy took the deep root it has right across our continent, that our huddled masses, our oppressed and our starving went to find freedom, democracy and opportunity. it is no accident that when the french republic gave the people of the united states a gift to celebrate 100 years of that great republic, that they called that statue 'liberty': no accident either that her extended arms should carry a torch of freedom. when someone touches that symbol, they touch us all deeply, because it is part of our common, human, democratic bond and inheritance. i remember, as a schoolboy, seeing on television at home a visit by john fitzgerald kennedy to places i had never been in our divided continent. i remember his visit to the great symbol of that gross division, berlin, with its wall. i remember as a boy i could understand, although i did not know about politics or international affairs, that when that man said, “i am a berliner”, he said something deep and meaningful in terms of solidarity at that time. today, as the prime minister has remarked, we are all americans, we are all new yorkers, we are all washingtonians. we share the sense of shock and horror. we share the bewildered outrage, we feel the vulnerability, for this is our common inheritance from yesterday's barbarous outrage. we share common democratic values and interests and we stand together willing to fight against terrorism and promote those interests and values. it is important that we as europeans say to the congressional leadership today: ‘you do not stand alone. you are not isolated. we can make common cause in this matter, and we must do so.’ but, most of all, we stand today in our common bond of humanity as our american friends bravely search for their survivors and for their dead. language often fails us on these occasions. my own colleagues have asked me to invite you, madam president, in addition to this solemn moment, to open a book of condolence that we might also convey through that, at some appropriate time to the congress, our interlocutor in us democracy, that in spite of the space which divides us across the atlantic, we are resolutely united by the bonds of democracy and freedom and in the fight against terrorism. our message to them today, in this fight for democracy and against terrorism, is that our only choice is to stand united; for united we stand but divided we shall fall. (loud applause)
mr president, madam president-in-office, commissioner, i represent a country which has a unique and close historical relationship with the united states. we very much appreciated the support we received from that country in eliminating violence on our own island. what happened in new york and washington is not new. attacks on economic, political and security targets resulting in major civilian casualties have been the hallmark of international terrorism. they have been experienced in ireland, britain, spain and other european countries: that is why we share and understand the pain of those who have suffered. we in ireland hope that this atrocity will precipitate a change in the way representatives of organisations responsible for similar atrocities in ireland are treated as celebrities in parts of the united states. hopefully, it will also undermine their fund-raising capabilities, particularly when their paramilitary wing still retains the weapons of terrorism and mass destruction and fraternises with other terrorist leaders. the major issue facing democratic leaders is how to respond to this latest atrocity. when i listen to the language currently being used by president george w. bush, i must say i am somewhat apprehensive. to talk about catching 'dead or alive' may well be the language of cowboy movies, but it is not the language that should be used by a world leader at any time, and certainly not during times of crises. the revulsion that followed last week's events, provides the impetus to unite everyone in support of democratic ideals in the fight against international terrorism. handled wrongly however, it could plunge the western world into a conflict with the islamic world with catastrophic consequences for everyone. therefore the response must be well thought out and proportionate. it must not result in unnecessary civilian casualties creating another generation of terrorists. we have a unique opportunity to rid the world of the evil of terrorism and underpin democracy. future generations will not forgive us if we squander that opportunity.
i want first of all on behalf of my group to thank the rapporteur for this report. it is an important report because harassment is a far too prevalent problem in the workplace. my group will be supporting the report as it stands in its entirety and will not be expecting or requesting any deletions of parts of paragraphs or phrases. it is a sad fact that the dublin foundation has found that over 15 million people have reported violence, sexual harassment or bullying in the workplace. it should not be allowed to continue because this kind of bullying and harassment can be fatal and has in many instances resulted in people either taking their own lives or, through misadventure in the workplace, in others taking their lives. it seems to me therefore that it is something which the commission and the parliament should address. legislation is in place in ireland, as part of the health and safety legislation, to ensure that large companies put in place codes of practice to deal with bullying. however, it is not clear yet to what extent companies have implemented this legislation. i came across a case recently where a young man starting in a job in a state company was bullied consistently by older men in the job, not by women, but by men, who simply did not want him in that job because they felt threatened by his presence. they did not succeed in forcing him out of that job but it was extraordinary that this should occur in this day and age. it is true that the trends emerging over the last ten years, as shown by the dublin foundation, have been on the rise. it is clear also that this is largely due to insecurity in the workplace and changes in the nature of work. typical work is causing stresses and strains which are being reflected in this kind of activity, so i support the call by the rapporteur for a communication from the commission by next year and a programme of action by the commission by the end of next year. could i say before i sit down on an entirely different matter, but one related to the work of the commission, that i would appeal to the commissioner to ask our colleagues in the commission to take steps to relax the rules and regulations governing state aid for the aviation industry, otherwise we are going to have to deal with tens of thousands of workers right across europe who could well be unemployed in the not too distant future.
mr president, i sat here throughout the debate yesterday on the statements by the commission and the council in relation to the tragedy in the united states. not a single mention was made of the crisis being faced by the aviation industry in europe as a result of this atrocity. it is incumbent on this house to make clear to the commission and the council that aid needs to be provided to the european airline industry and to the aviation industry in general, so that we can maintain a european aviation industry, particularly our airlines. otherwise, we would be in a very serious situation, particularly if, as is proposed, the united states provides aid to their airlines. it is of the utmost importance that the tens of thousands of jobs currently under threat in the aviation industry are saved.
mr president, colleagues, i wanted to send you an e-mail about this, but unfortunately i cannot send e-mails at the moment. i know that many of you have been experiencing particular difficulties with groupwise. since the beginning of last week, other computer problems linked to the main computer system have been sorted out, but the groupwise blockages have not yet been solved. i am in constant contact with the lsu-mep help-desk and hope to have more concrete information on the groupwise situation later today. the company responsible for the server has been brought in to help find the solution. i also wanted to send another e-mail advising colleagues to be at the airport at least two hours before the departure of their flight. this is because of long delays as a result of increased security checks.
in writing. - the greens/efa group welcomes the new proposals to harmonise asylum procedures in the eu as a major step forward and as indispensable. these proposals set out basic standards in three key areas: the authority responsible for determining the admissibility of asylum applications, the independent institution to which asylum seekers can turn for a review of their application, and the appeal procedure. we particularly welcome the introduction of time limits for processing applications, which will ensure that the backlog in many member states is closed and a fairer procedure is put in place. it should be remembered, however, that the attempt to establish common standards for safe countries, such as the notion of safe countries of origin in general, is restrictive and could be misused and invoked by member states. i know that in ireland, my home country, the government has concluded bilateral agreements with romania and nigeria, and plans to sign others in the future. these agreements are designed to speed up the expulsion procedure and are far from what should be done. we believe that any thorough examination of an asylum application and any decision should always be based on each specific case taken individually. it is essential that these concepts are not embedded in the directive, because this would open the way to abuse of all kinds, and i believe that this also applies to the acceleration of the asylum procedure, which would also reduce the quality of this procedure.
madam president, i would like to congratulate you on the speech you made the night the heads of government met in brussels. parliament was represented, i was present, and i think you struck exactly the right note for parliament.
madam president, i want to say some words about martin o'hagan, the journalist murdered in northern ireland a couple of days ago. he was a fearless journalist who over many years tirelessly illuminated that twilight world where gangsters and political terrorism and political extremism intersect. he has paid the ultimate price for his bravery. it is an unfortunate fact of our life in this world today that many hundreds of journalists die virtually every year in pursuit of their vocation of serving and informing the public. this does not happen so often in democratic societies and it is particularly worrying, therefore, that journalists in northern ireland are at risk in this way. the few words i have said about martin o'hagan are entirely inadequate to convey the shock and the horror that people of all political and religious persuasions in ireland feel at this horrible deed. i should like to link this with other matters we have debated at previous part-sessions – indeed i am sure we will be debating them again this week – and make an appeal about the language we use to describe these terrorists. we should stop referring to them as protestants, catholics or muslims: they are political extremists. it is important that we make that distinction. (applause)the individuals concerned adhere to one or other religion, or have no religion, but their objectives are political, and the one common thing that unites them is their contempt for democracy and humanity. (applause)
madam president, on a point of order. following the tragedies in new york and washington, many other aspects of our lives have inevitably been changed for ever and i would like to ask the commission to make a statement on the issue of state aids to airlines. in a small peripheral country such as my own, the survival of a national airline is of vital importance to the economy and already in ireland over 700 jobs are threatened at aer lingus. i would ask the commission to lift its ban on state aids to national, particularly small, airlines.
madam president, i have a point of order on the aviation industry in europe, and in particular the national airline in ireland which will be bankrupt within a matter of weeks unless the commission relaxes its guidelines on state aid for the airline industries. there is also a former state company in ireland, now privately owned, which services and maintains airlines. this company is also in serious difficulty. as mr provan mentioned, the tourism industry is in further severe difficulty too after the crisis which followed the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. i appeal to you, madam president, to use your good offices to impress upon the commission the concern of this house about the impact of the atrocities of 11 september in europe where thousands, if not millions, of jobs are at risk. it is extremely important, if this house is to demonstrate its relevance to the lives of the citizens of europe, that we should use our influence to save these jobs and to ensure that the commission does not apply rigid, ideologically-based guidelines in the current situation.
madam president, i am very glad that mr de rossa raised this subject. both of us represent the same constituency. this would be quite a disaster for all the workers and indeed for ireland. i want to remind the commissioner that ireland is an island within the community. it is very difficult to operate without an airline such as the national airline, aer lingus. the united states was very quick to take a decision to support the airlines in their country. it seems to me that the commission should take an early decision on the necessity to support airlines such as aer lingus and sabena. for ireland it is an absolute necessity to have a guaranteed source of transport by air to other parts of the world. ** * i urge the commissioner to take quick decisions on the issue. too many people's jobs and families' welfare are at risk unless something can be done in this respect. i appreciate that it is not entirely within your remit to deal with the subject now, but i hope that there will be a positive statement forthcoming from the commission this week at the latest. ** *
madam president, unfortunately most people have left at this stage but i want to draw the house's attention to the murder by loyalist paramilitaries last friday of martin o'hagan, a journalist. this is just one more example of the grave human rights situation in northern ireland. human rights lawyers have been assassinated as well by loyalist paramilitaries. only a few years ago, rosemarie nelson, the mother of a young family, was assassinated by loyalist paramilitaries because she was a human rights lawyer. there is a serious matter. we often debate resolutions in this house about human rights lawyers and journalists being assassinated in the exercise of their duty in other parts of the world. here is a situation within the european union that has been going on for a long time. the situation is extremely grave. journalists have the right to expose wrongdoings, human rights lawyers have the right enshrined in international law to represent people in courts. yet they are being prevented from doing so and in fact, those brave enough to do so have lost their lives. it is a real tragedy.
mr president, this is the first directive that deals with ambient noise, as distinct from noise from a particular common source. indeed it is to be welcomed. i also welcome the recent decision of the committee on the environment to restate that this draft directive should be strengthened into a framework directive out of which further, more detailed and specific legislation can follow, in other words, daughter directives. a one-size-fits-all policy in relation to environmental noise and the different transport sectors, not to mention differing circumstances in member states, is not satisfactory legislation. i would like to mention another point. i do not agree with the views of my colleague, mr de roo, in the specific amendments he has introduced on noise at airports and in the environs of airports in this piece of legislation. that will be for another day as far as i am concerned. i would like a response from the commission in view of the opinion of the advocate-general, delivered on 20 september last, on the preliminary ruling on the invalidity of articles 2 and 3 of regulation (ec) no 925/99 on restricting the use of aircraft at european airports in the interests of protection against noise. this regulation was based, curiously and questionably, on design criteria rather than performance criteria. i am referring to the controversial hushkits legislation, an example of how not to do something. i would appreciate a commission response. could the commission indicate whether it will be proposing the repealing or amending of this regulation, because this is a most important issue. we cannot pursue design criteria, as distinct from performance criteria, which favour one jet engine manufacturer over another. that has got us into difficulties on this issue. i would appreciate persistence in pursuing the issue of mr de roo's amendments. in the light of what has happened with the hushkits legislation i would like a response from the commission.
mr president, i support the proposals in the linkohr report. the situation in which we are seeing the commission and council fail to give parliament codecision in relation to this fund and the technical guidelines which will be produced in relation to it is not acceptable and there should be a change of attitude in relation to that. it is a great pity that we are moving away from the social policy aspects of these funds, which provided some relief for companies and, in particular, the workers of companies who were being restructured. ispat in cork, ireland, which was formerly a state company, was bought over some years ago by a private company and is now in liquidation. the 400 workers there are in receipt of statutory redundancy – a few thousand pounds for literally a lifetime's work – and yet when government and trade unions sought support from the social policy aspects of this fund they were refused. it is quite extraordinary that we have this situation. it is even more extraordinary because ispat was a plant which recycled scrapped steel: the objective of the new research fund is to improve environmental standards and the impact of the steel industry on the environment, and here was a company that was actually doing that. it must be emphasised very strongly that, insofar as this research fund has any impact, it must be on safety at work. in january this year there was an unfortunate case where a man lost his life in this steel factory. the company had failed to invest in fire-fighter training and to provide for escape hatches and this man lost his life as a result of the company's negligence. we need to ensure that health and safety regulations are strictly enforced.
mr president, i would like to welcome and endorse my colleague, mr linkohr's report, particularly his comments on the involvement of parliament and on the evolution of european union democratic structures. this treaty, along with the euratom treaty, remained outside the treaties establishing the european union and therefore outside democratic scrutiny and control. this is totally unacceptable, particularly at a time when energy installations, both nuclear and non-nuclear, could be a focus of terror attacks. therefore health and safety should be our foremost concern. as other colleagues have pointed out, the lack of parliamentary scrutiny has made the commission's proposals unacceptable and the greens cannot, therefore, agree to the commission's proposal on the expenditure for the research fund. for how could parliament's committee on budgets discharge the budget without exercising its function to scrutinise the financial management and allocation of funds? finally, the expiry of the ecsc treaty after 50 years reminds us that the euratom treaty, which has also existed outside the democratic scrutiny and control of this parliament, is an anomaly as more and more member states are moving away from nuclear energy and towards new forms of energy and that this anomaly, which happily will end with the coal and steel community, still continues with the euratom treaty.
mr president, in view of the commission's response to the debate last night and, in particular, to my colleague mr mombaur's point on the expiry of the coal and steel treaty, the protocol attached to the treaty of nice and the legal uncertainty now surrounding that, i would ask the rapporteur to comment on this point. would he be in favour of referring it to our own legal services as the commission is apparently about to do?
mr president, i welcome much of what is in the report, particularly the need for transparency, the issue dealing with the end use of weapons and the illegal trade in arms. as mr titley mentioned, the control of small arms is important. it is a major problem, as we have seen from the tragic events in switzerland. there needs to be a mechanism to control non-military security and police equipment. but i do not support the idea of a european defence industry and we need to look at getting rid of the defence industry. the recent tragic events in the united states have actually given a shot in the arm to the arms industries. i will mention one in particular because it is relevant to ireland, and that is raytheon. this company has seen a 40% jump in share prices as a result of the events of 11 september and thereafter. we must look at the whole issue of arms production in the first place. i mentioned raytheon because it is ironic that, in spite of the peace process in northern ireland, nobel peace prize winners stood on a platform welcoming into derry raytheon, one of the world's biggest arms manufacturing companies. it is appalling to encourage manufacturers of weapons, or their components, into a place where people are killing each other every day with weapons so that these products can then be transported to other parts of the world to cause havoc and deprivation. we do not want peace here and wars in other parts of the world. we should look at ending the trade in weapons completely and the idea of government support for an industry that is responsible for death and destruction around the world is unacceptable. as regards torture weapons, we have a situation where these weapons are being sent to certain parts of the world with an eu stamp on them. this is completely unacceptable. in my own country, ireland, there has in recent times been an increase in the arms industry, mainly involving us-based arms manufacturing. this manufacturing comprises mainly components, but irrespective of whether components or end-use weapons are concerned, we should not accept the production of weapons. there are far more beneficial ways of creating employment for people in a given area than the production of something that is used to kill another human being.
mr president, first of all the commissioner is being very facetious with his answers. the quote is directly from him. it is not an internal matter, it is something that he got involved in when he admittedly, privately, that if mr vaclav klaus became premier again, the czech republic's eu entry chances would be harmed. the czech prime minister said on a radio interview shortly afterwards, and i quote directly from what he said, 'i again repeat those words were not uttered publicly, nevertheless they have not been embargoed.' commissioner, do you deny that you made such a statement? also, on matters exclusively for the czech people – electing their leader, what stance they should take with regard to negotiations with their accession to the european union, and particularly at a time when confidence building is required both within the eu and within the accession countries – do you think it is right that you as an official and a member of the college of commissioners should be interfering with the democratic wishes of the czech people, or indeed the people of any country? we would all like to see certain outcomes from elections because of our own political beliefs, but some of us have to temper our language and our thoughts because of the positions we hold. therefore i would ask you, once again, to specifically either deny or admit that you made the statement and also to explain why you interfered in such a way?
mr president, on a point of order. the commissioner did not answer my question, because he said he would not reveal what took place between two gentlemen. he went on afterwards to reveal what took place between two gentlemen – himself and mr klaus. therefore he has failed to honour and respect this house by giving a direct answer to a direct question. it is a disgrace.
mr president, the resolution of the world conference against racism held in durban is not exactly what many would have hoped for. i regret the withdrawal of the american delegation. this certainly did not do it a particular service in view of its own record on racism in its own country. this compromise resolution makes it very clear that much more needs to be done, especially in relation to our understanding of other cultures and religions. islam, i have said many times, has in many ways been demonised, mostly by people who know nothing about it. durban was not a failure, nor was it indeed a great success; but it re-emphasised the imperative to make racism a crime, something i have called for many times in this house. it helped refocus governments' attention on issues of racism, which is based largely on ignorance and a fear of the unknown. european governments have a responsibility to show leadership in the area of racism and xenophobia and politicians and civic leaders are failing to address the issue of racism in their own communities. they are showing cowardice and a lack of courage in dealing with this particular issue. we have a long way to go in the european union, but at least we have made a reasonable beginning in durban. those who participated in durban deserve great credit. the resolution refers to action against islamophobia, which i support without reservation. i want to state yet again, here in this house, that i am a friend of islam. muslims around the world have unreservedly condemned these terrorist attacks. we must all ensure that under no circumstances is there any sort of backlash whatsoever against the muslim communities within our union. these terrorists acts were not carried out in the name of islam. they were plainly brutal terrorist acts of a premeditated and determined nature. just let me remind the house that no religion – or political movement for that matter – is without its fundamentalists.
mr president, eu leaders met in ghent on 21 september to evaluate how the union should react to the horrific terrorist attacks in america. i welcome the solidarity which all eu leaders showed with the american government and the american people in their time of mourning and grief. i also very much welcome the concrete plan of action that eu leaders are now going to implement in an effort to tackle international terrorism head-on. but let me be clear about one point. as a result of the terrorist attacks on 11 september it is now clear to us all that people are willing to engage in well-organised suicide missions to further their own political goals. that means, in the simplest terms, that we are going to have to implement wide-ranging measures if we are going to be in a position to defeat the scourge of international terrorism. in line with the conclusions of the tampere summit, eu leaders are committed to introducing a european arrest warrant, designed to supplant the current system of extradition in europe. easing extradition, while protecting civil rights, is an important weapon in the fight against terrorism, and in particular within the union, where free movement of persons exists. the united nations convention for the suppression of the financing of terrorism is also going to be ratified in all member states of the european union. our finance ministers are going to bring forward proposals outlining a timetable for the implementation of the draft directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering. the financial task force run by the oecd will be broadened to cover the issue of combating money laundering. there is agreement to implement the framework directive permitting the freezing of criminal assets within the union. there has also been agreement on paying closer attention to the draft directive on insider dealing so as to guarantee that all activities linked to terrorism come under the auspices of the directive. intelligence agencies within the member states of the union, together with europol, must work together more closely in terms of exchanging intelligence information if the terror networks operating in europe are to be broken. finally, fanatical terrorism is difficult to defeat, but we must be prepared to be determined and vigorous in the counter-terrorism measures that we introduce. we must all work together. a united front, spearheaded by the union and the united states, will be the only means of enabling us to defeat these cold-blooded and ruthless murderers.
mr president, i wish to concentrate my remarks on the issue of terrorism. i welcome the fact that we are building a worldwide alliance against terrorism, but i would argue very strongly that we also need to build a worldwide alliance against poverty, exploitation and oppression. the battle against terrorism is above all a battle of values and a battle of ideas. we will not defeat terrorism, whether it be national terrorism, whether it be driven by fundamentalism of any kind, unless we do battle with the ideas that underpin that terror. we have to recall again that no country has ever been defeated by terrorism and i am certainly confident that the terrorism which we now face on an international scale does not have that capacity unless we allow it by failing to grapple with the ideas underlying it. this is not an argument for business as usual. it is an argument for avoiding the trap set for us by terrorism. we have to be careful also not to fall into the trap of seeing muslims as an enemy. the statements by our european leaders and president prodi are very much welcome in this regard. i condemn utterly the statements by prime minister berlusconi. it is a disgrace that a country of the european union is led by a man who can present these ideas in this day and age, particularly when the country is italy, which in my view has always led in terms of modern ideas. i would add my voice to others' condemnations. the question is how do we respond? the very best response, apart from the obvious security measures that we have to take, is to defend our ideas of freedom, of democracy, of justice and of ending exploitation. this european union has a key role to play on the european stage in leading that battle and not falling into line behind those who only see security as an answer to this appalling problem.
i voted in favour of this report, but i am disappointed that some of the most important aspects were rejected. it seems that parliament does not accept the common definition of a refugee, based on the full inclusive definition, which would cover gender-related persecution, include both state and non-state persecution and take account of the applicant's fear of further persecution. i cannot see how people can justify voting against such principles. in relation to the issue of a safe country of origin i do not think there is such a thing as a safe country anywhere. for certain people in certain sections of society, there is a danger in any country. in ireland we have signed a bilateral agreement with romania and nigeria and we are planning to sign more such agreements in the future so that we can speed up the procedure of deportation. this really falls short of what we are required to do under international law. individuals are not being treated as individuals, they are being treated as groups coming from the country concerned. the idea of a safe country, the idea that governments can actually claim that certain countries are safe, is quite incredible. we have to remember that there is no such thing as a safe country for certain people.
i voted against this report. it sends out the wrong signals. it suggests that europe will take in the people it wants, the people it needs; in other words, human beings are being classified as commodities that certain member states will want. this goes against all the international principles of basic human rights. it suggests that people who have a certain trade or a certain profession can come in, but other people who may desperately need to get in are not allowed in. this whole policy is completely restrictive. in relation to the idea that we all have to share the burden of quotas, that immigrants are a burden, that we must all spread this burden, that immigrants are not people at all, that they are basically problems, this report sends out completely the wrong signals. it establishes the concept of a fortress europe whose door will be open to a privileged few.
in writing. - the greens/efa group welcomes the fact that mr titley's report on an eu code of conduct on arms exports is a major improvement on his previous report on the subject. we can give our full support to the vast majority of the points he makes, and we welcome many of his recommendations. we regret, however, that many of our members felt they had to abstain in the final vote, because of the rejection of the amendment to delete section 1 (d) of the text: 'reminds that, in his view, the european union's policy on arms exports must: (d) meet the needs and challenges of the european defence industry'. if that section had been deleted, we could have supported the final report. but to maintain this objective is in total contradiction with what we believe to be an ethical policy on arms. we feel that a code of ethical conduct on arms exports should not be dictated by the needs of the european defence industry.
madam president, i welcome the opportunity to make a few, but important, points on the stability and growth pact. there is a role for economic policy coordination, but it must be applied in a sensible and balanced manner in all member states. there are, however, serious policy differences between what the commission is now proposing and what was agreed at the ecofin council in helsinki in 1999, when it was agreed that member states ‘determine their budgetary policies in consistency with the treaty’, but that this commitment leaves room for domestic policy choices. this week the commission published a welcome white paper on european governance, the thrust of which reflects the need for eu institutions to listen, rather than dictate. there is a clear signal coming from eu citizens that while they continue to support the thrust of eu integration, they want it to happen in a manner which reflects the independence and the integrity of each member state and its citizens. there are those in this house, and indeed within the administration, who are blindly rushing towards the creation of a federalist europe. they are in my mind doing a disservice to the vision of europe's founding fathers and will, i predict, be stopped in their tracks by citizen reaction. events in the real world can rarely be dealt with by means of a predetermined, prescriptive set of rules. over-regulation stifles initiative and, therefore, progress and prosperity.
mr president, the tragic events in america have sent severe economic shock waves through the world. no country will remain immune to the economic impact of the horrendous terrorist attacks in america. those attacks were so severe that it will be some time before the extent of the economic fallout is fully known. we are already seeing the first economic ramifications of 11 september, a day that will be etched on the memory of us all for evermore. job losses are mounting in the airline industry. the jobs shed at many european airlines will never be filled again. these job losses in turn affect nearly every aspect of an economy. consumer and investor confidence is waning, the value of global and stock markets is down too. the one encouraging sign is that the euro currency is surviving strongly. we can now all see the importance of the single european currency and the fact that there are 12 currencies participating within the single european currency regime is lending stability to the european economy. there could be nothing worse than having 15 independent floating currencies operating within the european union at the moment. this would be a recipe for international speculators to come in and play one currency off against another. we all recall the devaluations which took place in 1992, when the international currency speculators played havoc with the european stock markets. thankfully they are not in a position to do so again now, because we have a stable currency operating in europe and surviving the recent economic shocks. the terrorist attacks will not affect the timetable for the introduction of euro notes and coins, which will proceed as planned. it is also clear that the european central bank and the various national euro changeover boards have done an excellent job in marketing the new euro economy. while i have no doubt that there will be some teething problems, we shall overcome them and by the end of the changeover period the citizens of europe will be fully cognizant of the value of the new euro notes and coins.
the belgian presidency has probably been the best presidency i have witnessed in the 18 years i have been a member of this house. it is making an impact with the citizens. my question does not just refer to the mobotu funds that are spread throughout europe and lying dormant in banks or are perhaps being used by undesirable types. it also deals with the law in belgium which apparently allows the arrest of people suspected of war crimes. there was the recent case of the israeli prime minister being threatened with legal action. my question also relates to the historical responsibility of the european union, including the presidency, for colonialism and for the atrocities committed in various states. for instance, would the president-in-office tell me who so far has been charged with complicity in the murder of president lumumba and the installation of the psychopath mobotu, which resulted in great pain for the former colony of the congo?
counsel. - unless the interpretation was incomplete, which would surprise me, i think i've provided some answers. what i personally think of family is absolutely irrelevant to the debate we're engaged in. i think that is the best thing, but it is of no importance in the debate we are having. the question is: 'what is the position of the member states?' since it is they who, by unanimity, must decide and specify their position in relation to the work of the united nations general assembly on children. i gave you directions on that. i have told you that the member states use the same terminology as that which was used at the world conferences of the united nations, namely cairo, beijing and copenhagen. this is a political indication of how the member states are working to define a unanimous position on the united nations conference on children.
i thank the president-in-office for her answer. it took a great deal of time to establish how parliament's position would be presented at the un special session. a general meeting was held where candidate countries and, indeed, the commissioner were present. he made the very concrete statement that the child cannot be dealt with in isolation but in the context of the family and community. we took a general vote and there was an overwhelming desire to make a special reference to the child in the context of the family. we then debated a proposed position for parliament, which was voted on in this chamber. it is our responsibility therefore to ensure that the wishes, not just of parliament but also of the candidate countries who had travelled here and of the member state representatives who came, concerning the position on the family are accurately presented, otherwise our time has been wasted. as the un definition of reproductive health services is so much in conflict with our position as stated in the treaties – in particular with the protocol of my country – does the council intend to challenge this publicly stated definition or to change the definition of reproductive health services within the institutions of the eu?
mr president, at the outset i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs on the presentation of their reports. in recent months the global economic climate has been the cause of some concern. we in europe are certainly not immune to economic downturns in the united states. the tragic events that took place in new york, washington and pennsylvania on 11 september have undoubtedly further shaken economic confidence. in ireland, as in all member states, we remain committed to maintaining current budgetary levels. the reaffirmation of this commitment at liège will allow the eu to better address cyclical fluctuations. i welcome also the statement by the commissioner that governments will be able to use automatic stabilisers in the context of a slow-down in growth. indeed, in ireland, we continue to run a budget surplus which affords us some room for manoeuvre. the irish stability programme is central to the budgetary process in ireland. it is discussed in daíl éireann and is a key component of our annual budget. the primary objective of the irish budget and stability programme is the continuation of sustainable economic growth, supported by moderate inflation and competitive wage developments, reflecting our national agreement with the social partners known as the programme for prosperity and fairness. as the house knows, the ecofin council this year, on a proposal from commissioner solbes, issued a recommendation to ireland stating that she did not comply with last year's eu broad economic guidelines on fiscal policy. the irish government contends that its budgetary policy seeks to achieve economic stability by securing the continuation of social partnership and also by taking action to reduce price inflation, including indirect tax reductions. we must look to the future. our immediate concern is the successful launch of the euro on 1 january. but the single currency is not an end in itself. it is conceived to facilitate a true single market for goods and services. the grand project requires a high level of cooperation and coordination. national governments must retain the prerogative to formulate a budget which best addresses the particular and specific economic situation of their country at that time.
mr president, 7000 people died in the wake of terrorist atrocities in new york and washington and the global response was one of shock and horror, followed by a flurry of diplomatic activity and detailed planning for an adequate response. in africa, 10 000 people die every day from aids, malaria or tuberculosis. why is there not a similar response? regrettably, the harsh truth is that the developed world does not place the same value on human life in africa. it is a terrible indictment on all of us who live in the world's richest countries that this scale of human tragedy continues to occur into the 21st century. several years ago malaria seemed close to being eliminated, today it is the most common cause of death in sub-saharan africa. tuberculosis is the most prevalent disease in the world, and 35 million people are infected with aids, with half of all new hiv infections occurring in the 15-24 year-old age group. i acknowledge that the eu commission contributed eur 4.2 billion for health assistance during the 1990s. however, as the rapporteur pointed out, although eur 700 million were allocated for health in 1998, the amount for 1996-1998 was only 4% of the total eu development budget. this indicates how low down it has been on the list of our political priorities. i hope this will now change with the publication of the new policy framework by the commission and its proposed programme of action for the years 2001-2006. its three-prong strategy of better deployment of existing resources, increasing the affordability to people in poorer countries of key drugs, and support for more research is indeed welcome. however, the proposals need to be developed further and underpinned by a greater financial commitment, indicative of a greater political priority. the best means of achieving this is by taking on board the excellent proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mr khanbhai. his call for the eu to devote 10% of our development aid to tackling this problem, his emphasis on preventative action with the 15-24 year-old age group in relation to aids, and his proposal for a global fund for infectious diseases and the establishment of an eu research agency should be the cornerstone of any new eu policy in this area.
in writing. - madam president, i supported the request for specific measures against terrorism for the remarkable reason that the legal basis provides for the possibility of appeal to the european court of justice. this point has been clarified by the adoption of the amendments tabled by the green group to protect human rights. civil liberties - which some fear are being violated - should be protected because all proceedings are subject to appeal to the european court of justice. we cannot be neutral in the face of terror. europe must support the us in finding terrorists and eradicating their networks, but we should also have a long-term plan to deal with conflict resolution and to provide infrastructure support in places, such as afghanistan, where humanitarian aid, as necessary as it is, is only a first step to a fully functioning society. for years the european parliament has been calling for support for the afghan civilian population subject to the terrorism of the taliban. women have been particularly affected. in this region, as in kashmir, the number of attacks on women has increased. they were done by islamic extremists who threw acid in their faces, inflicting horrible injuries, in order to force them to wear the burqa, which covers the entire face.
in writing. - we voted against this draft regulation for a number of reasons. we really think that to grant such powers without proper debate and without any parliamentary report on this issue is legally dubious. it is appalling that the protection of civil liberties is not dealt with in this regulation. the use of article 308 is a dangerous precedent which could lead to legislation being passed in a hurry, without any open and transparent debate. it is also questionable whether the european commission had the right to use this article in such circumstances and whether this method does not run counter to the constitutions of certain member states. the european parliament was asked to give its opinion on a list of 27 organisations, without receiving any explanation as to the factors which led to their selection, their identity or nature, and without any reference to safeguards in case any of these organisations or individuals were wrongly accused. we do not think that the european parliament has the right to act as a judge or jury on these matters, especially since the facts are not clearly presented in an open and transparent manner. we welcome, of course, any new measures to combat terrorism; however, such measures must be carefully worked out and debated in a transparent and democratic manner and must not be decided, as was the case this week, in an atmosphere of panic. any new measure must respect human rights, protect civil liberties and recognise the presumption of innocence if it is to be truly effective.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution for several reasons. i believe that bringing to justice those responsible for terrorist attacks in the united states should not result in suffering and terror for other innocent people. it is essential that the response to these atrocities does not lead to similar or even worse attacks. the international community must try to understand what led to these appalling crimes. she must try to understand because refusing to do so will increase the likelihood of future events that are even more atrocious. i believe that the united states and the coalition of states that has formed must be sensitive to the issue of global security as a whole. if the us responds with attacks on afghanistan, they will kill innocent people too and we never fight evil with evil. i am firmly convinced that we, the political men and women of the democratic world, have a great responsibility to uphold the principles of non-violence and to avoid the escalation of unjustified violence.
madam president, given the degree to which the media has had access to an unpublished report commissioned by the eu's scientific and technological option assessment committee, stoa, entitled "the possible toxic effects from nuclear reprocessing plants at sellafield and cap de la hague", could you immediately organise for the publication of this report to ensure a balanced and informed comment by all, especially by us in this parliament of democratically elected representatives? i am strongly of the view that all reports by committees of this house, whatever their status, should at least be available to members of this house before they are available to those outside. please arrange for that report's immediate publication. (applause)
madam president, i should like to raise an issue which i raised at the previous part-session, that is, the predicament of national airlines in europe which are currently facing effective annihilation. it is reckoned that approximately eur 2.5 billion will be lost by the european aviation industry between now and the end of the year, and that some 20 000 jobs will be lost. the commission response to this, however, has been stony-faced and ideological. it has sought to use the crisis arising from the atrocities of 11 september to shake out the industry to ensure that companies that may or may not have survived in the normal course of economic operations are forced to close down. i would appeal to the commission to use some political sagacity in its approach to this situation. if the european project does not have the support of the people of europe it will not succeed, and the commission is failing to recognise this. every single job lost in the european aviation industry as a result of the commission's decision, will create an ever-widening pool of resentment towards europe, not towards national governments which may be pursuing their own agendas. the commission must urgently review its approach to the aviation industry.
mr president, the goalposts have now changed, given the sheer level of inhumanity shown by terrorists pursuing their so-called political objectives. terrorists are now willing to engage in suicide missions. this simply means that the international community must now fully re-evaluate how best it can put in place security measures to defeat these acts of blatant and premeditated terrorism. from an irish perspective, we are deeply concerned about the safety and security arrangements at the sellafield nuclear plant in cumbria. at a time when one would expect a scaling-down of nuclear enterprises in britain, the british government has announced that the mox nuclear facility can go ahead at sellafield. instead of closing the sellafield nuclear plant on safety, environmental and economic grounds, the british governments has agreed to the expansion of operations there. this is not only a problem for the irish people: it is also a problem for the british people and for the wider european union. for instance, how do the british people like the idea of trains carrying nuclear materials continuing to run through london and other cities in britain? while the american government has halted the movement of potentially dangerous nuclear materials, bnfl is insisting that it will run its nuclear trains from reactors to its controversial sellafield reprocessing plant. in this growing atmosphere of international terrorism, surely it is grossly irresponsible to continue this transportation. equally, the transportation of nuclear materials via the irish sea sends shivers down the spine of many people living in ireland. as a representative of the east coast of ireland, i have always resented the irish sea being used as a rubbish tip for the activities of british nuclear fuels. the decision of the british government to expand the operations of the sellafield nuclear plant is a contentious one by any stretch of the imagination. the timing of this decision, however, is a highly cynical one, considering that it was made as a smokescreen at the same time as war was declared on terrorism. this is a clear case of the british government using the war on terrorism to distract attention from awkward and contentious decisions. in this climate this is simply not good enough. the safety and security at the sellafield plant is as much a matter of concern for the european union as it is for the irish and british governments. the british government should make the honourable decision to close this nuclear white elephant once and for all. but over the next few weeks the commission should and must carry out a full and independent evaluation of all the environmental public health risks of all operations of bnfl at the sellafield nuclear plant. the people of ireland are fed up with pious assurances from bnfl and the british government about safety standards at sellafield. we were all horrified recently when bnfl had to bring back nuclear materials from japan, because it had falsified documents. after this incident alone, how can any reasonable person believe for one moment anything that is written in a press release by bnfl? i can assure all members of this house that we in ireland will vigorously pursue every political, legal and diplomatic option open to us to force the british government to close the sellafield nuclear plant. this sellafield nuclear plant has achieved nothing, except to heap environmental misery on us all.
i wish to deal briefly with two issues: one i have already addressed, that is the state of the airline industry in europe. i welcome the fact that the commissioner has announced that the european union is going to meet with the us authorities to discuss unfair competition, but that is a grossly inadequate response to the current crisis in the aviation industry. i would like some clarity about what precisely the commission is doing. there is a report in irish newspapers today that the commission is insisting that the rescue and aid package the irish government will provide for aer lingus must be privately funded. now, that is a gross distortion of the treaties which are neutral as regards where aid or money should come from to assist the aviation industry. i want clarity on this. is that what the commission is demanding or is the irish government playing its own privatisation game under cover of the present crisis? the second point i wish to make is in relation to the nuclear and chemical industries in europe. the report which is coming before stoa this week makes for worrying reading. it will hopefully be made public very soon, but the reality is that sellafield and cap de la hague were a risk even before 11 september 2001; the chemical plants in our midst were a risk even before toulouse. it seems to me that we need commitments from the commission that we are going to have an independent european inspectorate.
madam president, after the 11 september atrocity we are in a new situation. acts of malice and not just accidents are the focus of our concern. no-fly zones should be established immediately around the two reprocessing plants in the eu: sellafield and cap de la hague. power plants generally are a ticking time-bomb in our midst. the only logical response is to close them all down and end this terrible threat. the french government has already moved to strengthen anti-terrorist precautions at cap de la hague. these include ground-to-air missiles. the german government has concluded that nuclear reactors could not withstand a collision with a targeted passenger jet. it has undertaken an emergency risk assessment. government ministers oppose anti-aircraft defences and have made it clear that plants that lie in the flight paths of large airports can be shut down if they are rated as serious risk. the us government has halted the transport of nuclear materials, and the eu government should also immediately halt the transport of nuclear materials, including mox fuels. i do not believe that the response we have had so far from the commission is at all adequate. the iaea has confirmed that 75% of the notifications of incidents involving nuclear material in the last year were illegal activities. nuclear materials are currently clearly not secure and not safe. neither sellafield nor la hague was designed to withstand the impact of a commercial jet. they contain tens of thousands of tonnes of spent nuclear fuel and over 100 tonnes of separated plutonium between them. a new report, which is both timely and in terms of content deeply worrying, has been prepared for the european parliament. i understand it will be circulated tomorrow by the stoa committee. i expect it to be circulated. i wonder why it has not already been circulated to members, as i believe it has already been circulated to the industry? the report states that an act of malice – and this was presented to us before september – could initiate a sequence of events that release radioactive material in the liquid high-level waste tanks, in sellafield in particular, with effects much greater and more devastating than chernobyl. this is very serious. i need an adequate response from the commission, and so far we have not had it.
mr president, i made my point about the stoa report when we were discussing the order of business. successive irish governments have voiced their concern about the operation of the sellafield plant, formerly known as windscale, and in particular the innumerable security breaches by the bnfl and the arrogance of the british authorities towards the legitimate concerns of a sovereign and friendly neighbour. the commissioning of the mox plant when the eyes of the international media were firmly focused elsewhere in the wake of the tragedy of september 11, 2001 is but the latest example, and is particularly serious, given the heightened concerns now of terrorist attacks. could the commission confirm that the same security standards that are now deemed necessary in cap de la hague – that is protection with fighter planes and ground-to-air missiles and a no-fly zone – are in place in sellafield? does the commission agree that there is an urgent need for common security standards for all nuclear installations, not just in the eu-15, but in accession countries as well? could the commission also comment on the lack of effectiveness of the present inspectorate in this regard?
it is not the first time i have heard commissioners come into this house and say they have no obligations in relation to nuclear power plants and that this is a matter for the member states. but clearly the european commission should and must carry out an independent evaluation of all the environmental and public health risks, not just for ireland and for all the uk but for all the people of europe. this has been side-stepped down the years but it is high time that the commission bites the bullet.
i just want to agree with what my colleague mr fitzsimons says. i have a report here by parliament, from the stoa committee.
mr president, i am pleased to have the opportunity to address mrs weiler's report. she has identified unemployment as one of the most serious economic and social problems faced by the european union. this was true prior to 11 september. it has now become an even more stark reality in the aftermath and against the background of continuing economic uncertainty which results from war. one in 12 eu citizens is unemployed today. this is an intolerable situation and one which is of great concern to all of us. indeed, unemployment rates are much higher in some member states. solving the problem of unemployment requires active labour market measures. labour markets do not always function efficiently, and member states must be prepared to take up their responsibilities when the need arises. the luxembourg process of employment guidelines is intended to give the member states a powerful stimulus in shaping their employment policies. in the short time available to me i want to focus on recent events, but firstly i want to say that a number of key european industries are facing unprecedented difficulties. every effort must be made to secure the maximum number of jobs. hardest hit at the moment is the airline industry but we must not forget the tourist industry which has already suffered greatly this year from foot-and-mouth disease. in the case of the irish national airline, aer lingus, 40% of their business and 60% of their profits are generated on trans-atlantic routes. ireland's location as an island state in the north-west periphery of the union creates a particular set of circumstances to which i would urge the commission to give full consideration. the collapse of aer lingus simply cannot be permitted. the economic and social consequences would be unparalleled in any other member state in the union, and the knock-on effects to related industries would be enormous. the fact that we are an island state without any linkage to the rest of europe means that we require this. the commission must look at this sympathetically and favourably.
in writing. - it is possible to trace this particular proposal back over a period of more than 20 years and today we should be reaping the fruits of the conclusion of intense negotiations and compromise, not only within this parliament but also within the council and among the social partners. the common position provides the most appropriate means of ensuring that we can achieve the objective of ensuring that workers have real access to consultation and information and that they are given the opportunity to contribute to the continuing operation of the undertaking. unfortunately, the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and approved by the committee on employment and social affairs are totally contrary to the spirit of cooperation that has prevailed so far. in particular, the question of sanctions to be imposed at european level undermines the principle of subsidiarity and the powers of national governments. all we have achieved is that this issue is being conciliated and that it does not in any way bring us any closer to the real objective of ensuring that workers in the european union are informed and consulted on the operation of their undertakings.
in writing. - this proposal aims to ensure that opportunities are provided for public participation at an early and decisive stage of environmental decision-making. this includes public participation, as well as the development of certain plans and programmes, increased participation in procedures concerning the implementation of environmental impact assessment declarations, and the establishment of integrated pollution prevention and control measures. annex 1 to the directive lists the instruments under which the public must, for the first time, have the opportunity to participate in the preparation of plans and programmes. such provisions should be integrated into the directives on waste and on the protection of waters against nitrate pollution, and should be included in the directives on hazardous waste, copper packaging, air quality and landfill of waste. the main element of this directive is to ensure that information is made available to the public within a reasonable time. the public should be given the opportunity to comment and express opinions before decisions are taken. it is important that the citizens of europe participate in decisions taken at the level of the european union. the european union and national governments support the principle of subsidiarity which ensures that the decision-making process includes local input whenever the opportunity arises. we are also all aware that eu regulations and directives are now under constant environmental review. i'm all for progress. i support economic development. we must ensure that a balance is struck between protecting our environment and economic progress at all times. the directive under consideration is a balanced piece of legislation which i am sure will have the support of all members of this house.
mr president, i want to thank mr costa neves for his efforts on behalf of all of us in this procedure and to say that it is a very technical and difficult task he took on: he has discharged it with great skill and shown much patience and kindness to all of us who wanted our ideas taken into consideration. i have not known a commissioner who has followed the proceedings so closely or who has spent so much time with the committee on budgets as the present commissioner. of course, in many ways this is a highly technical exercise and, unlike national budgets, it does not have much effect on the course of economic development in the european union. it is too small for that, even in the area of structural funds, for even the most generous beneficiaries receive a very small percentage of gnp. ireland, at the best, was getting 2%, portugal and the poorer areas of spain are getting between 1% and 2% of gnp. it is not a very generous outlay of money, but if we can use it in order to guide their economic policies in the direction that we think is best, then the money can be usefully spent. there is one idea and one hope that i have always entertained. i believe i said some years ago that compared to national parliaments we were like children playing shop. the amount of resources at our disposal is so small and there is so little we can do with them, but there is one area that i would like to see developed. i do not want to see an expansion of public spending at european level. but in the area of economic cooperation and development, if we could only pool at european level the resources which the countries of the european union and the european union itself devote to international cooperation and development cooperation, we could convert individual national efforts into a common european effort without increasing the sum of taxation. this is essential if we are to develop a common foreign and security policy. i believe we could have a much greater impact on the development of the poorer countries and redirect our foreign policy in a way that we could help the poor, help to establish peace and give us real influence in the world. if there is one area in which we should demand subsidiarity from the national states to the european union, it is here.
madam president, as you were informed earlier this week, i was in scotland protesting against the trident nuclear submarine base there and i was arrested. what is the situation concerning our immunity in other member states? i understood that we could not be arrested in such circumstances. i have nothing against the scottish police. they were extremely courteous. they were aware of the concept of peaceful demonstration. maybe they should train the police in places like genoa and show them how to react to peaceful protests. what is the situation regarding our immunity? i was not breaking the peace, but trying to keep the peace by helping to rid the world of nuclear weapons. secondly, in relation to my immunity: does that not count when i am in another country?
madam president, i should like to begin – as other colleagues have done today – with a reference to the milestone event in northern ireland. the verified decommissioning of ira weapons has been a necessary and required act for a considerable period of time. it was long overdue, but now that it has happened, it is hugely welcome. particularly since 11 september it has been increasingly inevitable that such an act should take place. i hope it represents a new dawn, a rebirth, a renaissance for the peace process in northern ireland and that all the political actors will now seize this moment to ground and root the peace in the institutions of that agreement. i add my voice to those who have asked all the institutions today, in the clearest terms, to welcome what has happened on behalf of the european union. i want to say to prime minister verhofstadt, with regard to the ghent council, that my group totally supports the clearest and most unequivocal assurances you have given of total solidarity with the united states. that is an important act of solidarity, and an important point of departure. i reiterate, for my group, that we totally support this. if i do not dwell on this, it is simply because there are one or two questions i should like to raise with you, mr president-in-office. in particular, we have had rather a long debate about the potential humanitarian crisis. clearly for areas within control of the taliban, we cannot blame the world community for taliban unwillingness to engage with the united nations, ngos and others. but i would like to know what specific initiatives we, as the european union, with our commitment of resources in this area, are now taking to urge pakistan to open more space for refugees. i appreciate the enormous difficulties. i appreciate they already have two million or more afghanis within their territory, but can we not, with our financial and organisational capacity, reassure those authorities that if the borders are opened to cope with this crisis they will not be left alone or have to pick up the tab on their own? i should like to turn to the question of the role of the council of ministers in following up on the action plan to fight terrorism. in particular, i note the strategic leadership which you offered through the council at the extraordinary meeting on 21 september. there you made a clear plea to the institutions to seize that moment and act. here i congratulate the commission for taking the european council at its word and bringing forward with extraordinary speed a comprehensive measure to freeze the assets of terrorist organisations. i can tell you in this parliament that within 24 hours of receiving that, and with the proviso that we should review it in the lifetime of this parliament, we too seized the moment. that had no precedent ever in european law making. it was with some regret then that one noticed that, if there was a delay, it was among your ‘line managers’ from the european council down to the council of ministers. i have a number of questions: what is the council doing on the freezing of assets? but i have an important question around it. can you explain to me, prime minister, what does this mean about the quality of governance in the european union? after all, the council is there to give a strategic lead. you gave it, the commission followed; this house followed. the question is: why did the council of ministers not follow with the same alacrity? i would like to pose one other question in relation to the convention. the prime minister has explained to us that the candidate states will participate. i very much welcome that. i ask the prime minister to clarify, in the light of the agreement at helsinki, that all candidate countries will be treated on an equal basis. does that invitation extend to turkey? it is important that turkey should be included, based on the principles clarified at helsinki. i know it is not a negotiating state, but helsinki established a clear principle of equality of treatment for candidate states. to summarise: what will we do with pakistan and humanitarian aid? what does the example of the freezing of assets tell us about the rather dysfunctional quality of governance? will turkey be a participant in the process? finally, i am glad to see that the president of the commission and the president-in-office, today at least, are sharing a platform in the european parliament.
madam president, mr president-in-office, president prodi, firstly, i would like to express my very sincere thanks for the comments that have been made by colleagues here this morning and by you, madam president and president prodi on the good news from ireland on the decommissioning of arms. i very much want to put on record once again the important part parliament and the commission played in helping the peace process at a time when this help was very much needed. we have had a dramatic breakthrough in the last 24 hours, but let nobody here take it for granted that the road to peace – a just and lasting peace – is going to be easy. of course, the great majority of people on the island of ireland are genuinely in search of this just and lasting peace, but, regrettably, a small minority will do their best to try and derail the process. we must all be on the watch for that. i very much welcome the fact that the european union leaders unequivocally stated their full support for the action that has been taken in the fight against terrorism in all its aspects and reaffirmed their solidarity with the american government. they have agreed that the fight against terrorism must continue within a united nations framework. i believe that the united nations has a very important and leading role to play in this regard. present and future actions in the fight against international terrorism should and must emanate from the membership of the united nations. we are all concerned that civilian populations must be shielded from the attacks which are taking place in afghanistan at this time and, in a war situation, there is nothing more sickening than one hearing commentators refer to civilian deaths as 'collateral damage'. we are dealing with lives here and human lives must always be protected. humanitarian aid for the afghan people must be a priority and such aid must cover the needs of the afghan population and afghan refugees, eu governments are fully committed to ensuring that such aid reaches these people in need. we want to ensure that this is done. winter is due to start very shortly in afghanistan, and these winters are exceptionally cold and difficult. i believe that the international community, including the european union and the united nations, must estimate the humanitarian needs of the afghan people over the next few months and ensure that all the necessary humanitarian aid is delivered. we must also, remember that the war against terrorism is being fought on many different fronts. within the union, there must be formal adoption of the eu directive on money laundering. we must be able to confiscate the financial proceeds of terrorism so as to help cut off the money supply which is the financial oxygen for its evil operations. we can confiscate the financial proceeds of drug barons in europe and we must be able to extend these powers of confiscation to other financial proceeds of crime. there must be a speedy ratification by the union's member states of the united nations convention for the suppressing of the financing of terrorism. eu governments at ghent supported the implementation of a common european arrest warrant, and our eu justice ministers are due to meet on 7 december 2001 to put in place the final terms governing the operation of this warrant. it is very important, in my view, that there is a clear definition of terrorist acts, as a national cannot and should not be extradited from one country in europe to another unless the specified crime is a crime in his or her host member state. finally, we live in challenging and uncertain times and the political situation in the middle east is very volatile. the present instability and violence cannot and must not continue indefinitely. i believe that the israeli troops must withdraw from the territories of the palestinian authority. i would appeal to the israeli and palestinian authorities to do everything possible to negotiate a settlement based on the recommendations of the mitchell report.
mr president, i would like to say that i believe that both parliament and the commission are most fortunate in having somebody of the calibre of mr poos to give us this very fine report which is long overdue. i very much welcome mr poos' report and very much hope that when it receives overwhelming support from parliament, as i believe it will, the belgian presidency will convey the importance of the report to the council of ministers. we hope also that the belgian presidency will lead the drive, as it were, to rock the consciences of the members of the general affairs council as to what their role and function must and should be. regrettably, the general affairs council has very much receded into the background in terms of its effectiveness. the council has been undermined by the expansion of specialised councils and by the european council itself and this is very regrettable. the general affairs council, as mr poos says, must remain a powerful political body and it must not be allowed to become a super coreper. if it does, nobody will have an overall view of what is happening; where we should go and how we are to prepare for the future. the work of the council must be more consistent, and greater coordination is needed in the administration of the council. i feel the council should confine itself to defining the general political guidelines of the union and should not intervene in the questions of specific detail. it is very much in the interests of better decision-making within the union to have an effective council which is transparent and exercises all the duties conferred upon it by the treaty. also, ministers who attend the general affairs council meetings must have all the powers required to carry out their tasks. we are all too familiar with ministers appearing at general affairs council meetings, taking the television cameras on the way in with their one or two one-liners and then going on their way. the belgian presidency-in-office shakes her head in disbelief. madame, i know, i was there! i saw it for myself on more than one occasion and things have not improved since i left. in actual fact, they have got much worse, and that is something that must be aired. we want the general affairs council to do its business. we would like the presidency for the time being to do its business and we also want the commission to do its business. we respect, and must respect, the three institutions and the role that they have to play. this parliament cannot afford to sit back and be silent if we see the role of any one of the institutions, be it parliament or the commission or, indeed the council, being sidelined for any particular reason by any small group of member states for any political reasons they may have at any time.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i should like to join with other speakers in commending the excellent work of the rapporteur, my colleague mr brok. any analysis of the evolution of the cfsp would regrettably have to conclude that the maastricht treaty sacrificed political integration to ensure economic integration and, as a consequence, undermine the eu's potential to be a major foreign policy player on the world stage. nowhere was this more apparent than during the bosnian crisis when there was significant disunity among member states. our mediation efforts were dogged by bad luck. it is also true to say we were ineffective peace-makers. we finished up as the united states' junior partner instead of an equal one. it seemed for a while that we had learned from this grim experience and there was a determined effort in the treaty of amsterdam to ensure more coherence in our common foreign and security policy approach. although the end-result of the treaty negotiations represented a step forward, they did not go far enough. however, i suppose we must be thankful that considerable progress was made at the cologne, faro and helsinki summits. whatever institutional and other changes take place, there will never be real progress unless and until all member states act and speak as one. the current situation in the wake of 11 september underlines this point. the eu had an opportunity to be an equal partner with the united states in responding to this crisis. regrettably, the solo run by british prime minister tony blair has seriously undermined the eu's influence and our foreign policy strategy. this problem was further compounded by the decision of the uk, germany and france to hold a mini-summit prior to the ghent council. if actions like this continue, either on the part of an individual member state or a group of them, the eu's common foreign and security policy will be in tatters, despite the best efforts of commissioner patten and mr solana.
mr president, i would also like to pay tribute to mr lamassoure's excellent work as rapporteur. although i have been a constant critic of turkey's human rights record and its treatment of the kurds, i also strongly support the decision of the 1999 helsinki european council to recognise turkey as an candidate country. i do not agree with those who believe the boundaries of europe should be narrow and exclusively christian. i want to see a pluralistic europe. i have always believed that turkey could be a very important bridge-head between the current members of the eu and the islamic world. this would facilitate greater understanding and mutual respect. it is especially important in the changed world that exists after 11 september. however, turkey still has a long way to go. in last year's annual assessment report the commission concluded that, although a wide-ranging debate on political reforms had begun and turkey had signed several international human rights instruments over the past year, the situation on the ground had hardly improved. let us hope that the publication of next month's annual report will show significant improvement. in this context, i welcome the recent decision by the turkish parliament to adopt a constitutional reform package to bring turkey further in line with the acquis communautaire. at the launch of the eu-turkish foundation of 17 october, commissioner verheugen said that these reforms are a significant step towards better protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in turkey. it is clear that continued support for a closer eu-turkey relationship, including eventual accession, is the best way to accelerate political reform and progress in human rights. however, the timetable for possible accession lies in turkish hands alone. negotiations can only begin when turkey fulfils the copenhagen criteria. it must strive harder to fulfil its obligations in that regard.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, my report on behalf of the committee on budgets is brief, because the committee on budgets was asked to give its opinion on the proposal by the commission. we were broadly supportive. first of all, it streamlines the policy, making it simpler and much more defensible within the gatt negotiations, thereby providing longer-term security for farmers engaged in sheep and goat farming. we proposed an amendment in relation to individual tagging. we did not propose in that way to enter into the area of food safety, or indeed the business of the committee on agriculture. we simply wanted to ensure that premiums were paid on sheep and goats that actually existed and that we had a means of ensuring that the animals could be counted and accounted for. since i am responsible to the committee on budgetary control for animal products, i felt it my duty to insert that amendment. speaking for myself, i can say that the committee on budgets has its responsibilities. this is largely a neutral proposal by the commission, but the committee on agriculture has its responsibilities to farmers. i support the position it has taken in this respect. i support the doyle amendment which was passed by the committee on agriculture. as regards costs, the committee on budgets added approximately eur 400 million in horizontal cuts that the council deducted from the budget so we added eur 400 million this morning. we added another eur 400 million in relation to animal health measures. the budget this year is 2% more in real terms than we started with last year, and in real terms it is more than 5%, when you consider the outturn. it is my opinion, and the opinion of epp members in the committee on budgets, that there are sufficient funds to meet the request of the committee on agriculture: if the doyle position is accepted by this parliament and by the council there are sufficient resources to finance the policy. it will be a shift of money from the rich areas to the poor areas, from the bigger farmers to the smaller farmers. it is a social and regional measure that we could do with.
mr president, i reiterate what my colleague, mr mccartin, has just said. he is speaking on behalf of the committee on budgets. there is money there to support the proposals that were passed by the committee on agriculture and rural development, for a eur 30 fixed rate premium and a eur 9 supplement premium. there is money there. i appeal to colleagues to support the views of the agriculture committee. i fear tonight's vote – on a thursday night – may be unrepresentative of the large majority decision at the agriculture committee on this particular issue. the community average income of sheep and goat producers is generally amongst the lowest of all sectors, especially in northern europe where lambs are reared in meat production systems. i quote the words of the commission: "unlike beef and other commodities, the community is deficient in sheepmeat and, under the present regimes, there is a major exodus from sheep production, especially in northern europe. the beef regime unwittingly also supports this exodus from sheep production as ewes are counted for extensification payment under this regime but are not paid for, thereby encouraging farmers who have the option to decrease their sheep and increase their cattle on a holding to draw down more extensification payments." the most cost-effective solution from a common agricultural policy point of view is to ensure that the sheep and goat regimes, together with the impact of the beef regime, encourage as much land as possible to be kept in europe in sheep production. it is at least four times as expensive to support a livestock unit of beef, compared to that of sheepmeat. while beef producers need all the support they are getting, given their present difficulties, it is not in their interest either to have competition generated between dry stock sectors by imbalance in the respective regimes. the main proposal for a fixed, single annual premium i fully support, at eur 30. i fully support it, in place of the unfair, uncertain and – from a wto perspective – unacceptable present deficiency payment system. we support the flexibility amendments to send a message to the commission that there is room for different treatment in some member states in relation to this regime, providing that it does not come from the flat rate payment. we cannot support the identification and traceability amendments because this is a matter for dg v, not because we do not support the principle but because it is for another dg, and for that reason solely.
seldom have i seen a greater degree of unanimity on the need for reform of the sheep and goat sector. the rapporteur, the commission, parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development and farming organisations are all at one on the need for reform. it is now down to this parliament and the council to give meaningful effect to this consensus. there is, however, one important bridge to be crossed if this desired objective is to be achieved. unless we succeed in reaching a fair consensus on the level of financial support for sheep farming, this attempt at reform will fail and the decline of sheep production will lead to a significant imbalance in the european meat sector, thereby putting greater pressure on the beef sector as farmers switch from one enterprise to another. so, it makes good economic sense to get the balance right now. there will not be another bite at this cherry. we talk a lot about the sustainability of european agriculture. to me it means maintaining a reasonable balance between all sectors, including the profitability of each. i do not have to remind the house of the relevance of sheep farming in areas not suited to other agricultural enterprises and the importance, from a rural development perspective, of sustaining farm families in those areas. i do, however, wish to acknowledge the positive aspects of the commission proposals, including the findings of the evaluation committee report, the simplification of procedures and the introduction of a single premium. here, however, i differ with the commission on its method of calculation, based on averaging. this does not fairly reflect the difficulties experienced by the sector over a longer period. during the debate, i tabled a number of amendments. my proposal for a flat rate premium of eur 32 was not supported; it was based on a fair and thorough evaluation by agricultural economists of the level of support necessary to restore equity to the sector. on behalf of my group, i then supported proposals for eur 30 – a figure which i believe is the very minimum necessary to close the gap and help restore profitability to the sector. i ask the house not to deviate from this figure, which can be accommodated within the existing guidelines, and also to support amendments on compensation for extensification, the rural world premium and funding for market developments. like all members of this house, i am conscious of the budgetary implications of reform. i caution against reform of sheepmeat at the expense of other sectors, particularly beef. those who take pleasure in pointing out that agriculture takes up almost 50% of the budget should keep in mind that this general support is as much a subsidy to consumers as it is support for the farming community – the people who are expected to guarantee food supply and quality and at the same time maintain the rural environment. those who believe that agriculture is oversubsidised should take note of the continuing decline in the number of farm families and ask themselves why this is happening. we should note, in my view, with alarm the reluctance of young people to take up farming and ponder the consequences for food security and employment in the agricultural food sector. in evaluating the relevance of agriculture to the european and world economy, you cannot apply the same economic criteria as we apply to other sectors.
let me begin by saying that the greens support the proposal of the commission for both the fifg and the magp. we also agree with the rapporteur's amendments seeking to restrict the derogation for safety to vessels less than 12 metres in length and we would like to thank her for retabling these important amendments. however, we are entirely opposed to the proposal as it has now emerged from the committee. the amendments are removing the most progressive elements that the commission is proposing. after all, both the magp and the fifg are already so full of loopholes that you actually sail the atlantic dawn through. the proposal would simply close a couple of these more blatant loopholes. glancing through a scientific report on the status of fish stocks makes for very depressing reading these days. it does not matter whether it is ices, or the stecf or any of the regional bodies such as nafo. everywhere you look fish stocks are over-exploited and far too often severely depleted. the eu has had to take emergency measures for three cod stocks and northern hake and it is clear that other stocks will soon be added to the list. there is pretty much universal agreement that this deplorable situation is due to the excess capacity of the world's fishing fleets. the commission is always reminding us of this, but the member states and certain segments of the fishing industry are clearly in denial. the community has agreed to several international instruments which seek to control fishing capacity and/or fishing effort. for instance, the fao code of conduct provides that states should take measures to prevent or eliminate excess fishing capacity and should ensure that levels of fishing effort are in line with sustainable use of fisheries resources. but whenever the commission tries to put these obligations into effect, they are shot down by parliament and the council. some have argued that it is not reasonable to try and change a programme in the last year or that certain aspects of the proposal are contrary to the idea of natural justice. the fifg is due to continue until 2006 and so there are several years in which these reforms could bring some sort of positive effect. surely it is far from natural justice to refuse to take action now and to continue as if the future is bright, only to have more and more stocks decrease and to impose even further temporary or permanent closures. i would ask the members of this house to consider the case of the northern cod stock off newfoundland which provided 200 000 tonnes of fish every year for five centuries. in 1992, the canadian government had to close the fisheries even for subsistence fishing and there is still little if any sign of improvement in the stock. is that the kind of future we want for our own coastal communities? the time has come for us to take a long-term rather than just a 6-months to 12-months view. we really have to deal with this issue and i would like to support what the commission is proposing.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, this proposal for a council regulation concerns the prolongation of the fisheries protocol which has been in force between the eu and senegal for the period of 1 may 1997 to 30 april 2001. the prolongation concerns two periods. the first period is from 1 may 2001 until 31 july and the second from 1 august 2001 to 31 december. after several rounds of negotiations starting in brussels in january 2001 no agreement was reached between the eu and senegal on the renewal of the current protocol. last june, senegal suspended negotiations until october in order to gain time to analyse the fisheries issues and their effects. breaking off the negotiations did not have the same negative impact as it had at the end of 1996 when all fisheries were suspended. this time there has been no suspension and good sense has prevailed on both sides. according to estimates by senegal's research institute, which was carried out in 1996, the available resources at that time would permit catches of some 465 000 tonnes. however, recent scientific analysis has shown that, in spite of the satisfactory utilisation rates in this segment, coastal demersal resources have plummeted and have forced the small-scale and industrial fleet to fish in neighbouring countries. of course, sustainable fishing is one of the leading principles of the common fisheries policy. signals about the critical state of some fish stocks must be taken into account by both parties when negotiations are resumed. until the date of resumption of negotiations, the senegalese government is carrying out a new study to determine the country's present fisheries potential. since the question of durable management was one of the breaking points at the negotiations, the senegalese government will make use of the results of this study later this year in negotiating with the eu. the fisheries possibilities and the financial contribution from the community have remained unchanged. the compensation to be paid by the community for the eight months of this year will be calculated on a pro rata basis, meaning that the compensation for the period 1 may until the end of the year will be two-thirds of the yearly sum of eur 12 million. that payment has to be made by the end of the year. i believe, as does the committee on fisheries, that it is important for community fishermen that this agreement be renewed after 31 december of this year when the current prolongation expires. the renewal of the protocol is now more important than ever in terms of fishing opportunities, after the failure to reach agreement with morocco. i am not trying to compare the opportunities in senegal with morocco, but the fact is that there are other opportunities there. we cannot compare them because the protocol with morocco would have involved eur 500 million over a four-year period. when, therefore, we consider the recently signed agreement with mauritania, costing eur 430 million over five years, the senegal agreement is very modest in financial terms. in the light of all these considerations, i can recommend this report to the house.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, on behalf of the environment committee, i welcome mr maat's excellent report. it does not go as far as the environment committee would have wished, particularly in relation to the duration of travel – the environment committee would have preferred four hours – however, if eight hours is complied with, it will be a really welcome advance in animal welfare. this is the first realistic report on animal welfare, mr maat has done an excellent job and i congratulate him. my group supports this report. although the report does not go far enough in relation to the eight hours, paragraph 1 is extremely important. the maximum journey time of eight hours for slaughter and for further fattening should be welcomed because animals were being transported long distances over long periods in completely unacceptable conditions. another important paragraph is paragraph 20, which calls for an end to the payment of export refunds on the export of live animals to third countries for slaughter. this is long overdue. the vast majority of european taxpayers are against the idea of their taxes being used to fund something that they fundamentally disagree with. the onus is on the commission to ensure that member states comply with the rules. the commission must take very strong action against any member states which do not comply. they must be taken to court and fined. in relation to the reduced need for long transport, it is extremely important to promote local abattoirs and also the trade in meat. it makes much more economic sense to have a trade in meat than a trade in live animals, because jobs are then created within the eu. the same applies to ireland: it could make a lot more exporting meat than live animals.
mr president, ireland is committed to working with all member states and international bodies to achieve higher standards in animal welfare. due to our peripheral location and our island status, as mr maat has recognised – for which i thank him – we have no realistic alternative to exporting our live cattle by boat, and we need to find export markets for nine out of the ten animals produced on our farms. while i fully support the general principle of slaughtering animals as close as possible to the point of production, the reality is that many of the export markets available to us demand live animals rather than the processed products and for the foreseeable future the proper functioning of our market will require a balance between the dead meat and the live meat trade. regulation 615/98 links all payments of export refunds to compliance with strict animal welfare standards during transport, including full clinical examination of every animal. we must police and enforce this fully. the live export incident involving germany and the lebanon this summer resulted from the inexperience of the german authorities, as they are infrequent exporters of live animals and had no prior veterinary agreement with the lebanese. hard cases make bad law. i do not agree with the german agricultural minister's view that export refunds on live cattle can now no longer be justified. if europe does not fulfil the requirements of third countries, they will get their supplies from far further afield, with little or no controls and regulation from an animal welfare point of view since there are still no internationally agreed standards on transport. we have to have the highest possible standards not just in the interest of the animals but also of the producers, who will get a far better price for healthy unstressed animals. it is true that we must continue to review our standards of protection of animals during transport and each member state must be willing to police and enforce the law. however, with over a million tonnes of surplus beef in the eu, export refunds will be required for some time to come and i will not be supporting any proposal to remove them.
mr president, i wish to support mr wynn. i am glad to see that the committee on budgets is taking a responsible approach to this issue because the idea of pushing it through as urgent procedure without debate is unacceptable. we have to be very careful about how we use european taxpayers' money and we need to look to the future. a number of years ago in this parliament it was already being said that morocco would not agree to another agreement with the eu. we knew that then and we should have prepared for it. this situation is not unique, it is going to happen again. at the moment we are discussing a major agreement with mauritania. the day will come when mauritania will say to the eu that it no longer wants such an agreement. what are we going to do then? we really need to address this issue, firstly, in relation to how we arrange our common fisheries policy and, secondly, in relation to how we use public money. the way this has been rushed through is unacceptable. this is not a matter for urgent procedure because we have known for many years that this problem was coming. we need to be extremely careful about how we use european taxpayers' money. i understand the problems the fishing community has, but we need to be more responsible.
mr president, i am concerned about a number of aspects in the langen report. initially we have to address this question of services of general interest from the point of view of the rights of citizens, for the rights of consumers are a subset of those rights. citizenship confers rights which entitle one to various essential needs such as water, which is essential to human life. water cannot be treated within the european union simply as a commodity to be bought and sold. europe is committed to the idea of a distinct social model based on solidarity. it is therefore essential that we have a legal framework, a regulatory framework, within which the commission and member states can address the question of competition as it affects social services, public services, and services of general interest. it is part of a democratic agenda for the european union to ensure that we are accountable, that the services we provide are accountable, and that we have a europe which is developed as a socially inclusive europe. the economy has to be an instrument to serve the people, not simply to serve the market. rights of the consumer being defined on the basis of purchasing power is not an adequate way to develop a cohesive social europe. it is a europe where politics is denigrated because it is simply based on people's capacity to buy or not to buy.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the my group on the lehne report. since the tampere summit eu governments have been working more closely with each other on justice and home affairs and since 11 september this has become even more apparent. since we live in an internal market it is only right and proper that there should be some cooperation and coordination between the member states. international crime involves very sophisticated structures, but such operations centre on funding of criminal activities. that is why it is important that we enact this legislation, to ensure money laundering does not take place within the eu financial systems. we must ensure that international criminals cannot use existing financial structures in europe, or indeed elsewhere, to launder their unlawful gains. the implementation of this directive on prevention of the use of financial systems for the purpose of money laundering is an important element in the battle against international crime. i have always believed that eu legislation in this area should be broadened to include offences other than drug offences. this is exactly what has been achieved here through the agreement between the eu governments and the european parliament. the directive extends the prohibition of money laundering to organised crime as well as drug offences. member states will remain free to extend their national anti-money laundering legislation to other forms of criminal activity. as a result of the conciliation agreement, lawyers' professional secrecy will be safeguarded unless the lawyer knows that the legal advice sought is for money laundering purposes. in a wider context there is agreement at european level to implement the framework directive on permitting the freezing of criminal assets within the eu. the protocol relating to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters will also help eu governments when criminal proceedings take place in different member states. i support closer cooperation and coordination on justice within the eu, although i would caution governments to look very carefully at any conditions attached to future initiatives. there must be proper procedures to safeguard civil liberties and rights and to maintain the presumption of innocence until proven guilty.
the commission. mr president, i will answer your questions as follows: firstly, the additional measures to improve the capacity to implement are taken from the phare budget, i.e. no additional funds are used, no funds are transferred. it is rather a change in the priorities for the programming of phare, as i had already informed parliament some time ago. we have also said that we are prepared to change our priorities in the aftermath of 11 september, for example, in the areas of internal and legal policy, police cooperation and the protection of external borders. the commission has no competence whatsoever in the field of reactor safety, as you know. i do not know what the court of auditors is referring to. it may refer to the work of the council working party on nuclear questions. but this is not a commission institution. the commission has no competence and is not involved in any measures to improve nuclear safety in candidate countries. the only thing the commission is doing is negotiating and implementing with the countries that have been asked, namely lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia, the decommissioning of the reactors that are considered by the member states not to be retrofitted. this is largely closed, as you know. the final closure date for ignalina ii in lithuania is still pending and the corresponding financing offer is still pending. but that's gonna be short. the commission has nothing to do with the further construction of nuclear power stations in the countries of central and eastern europe. i must say quite frankly that this is the first time i have heard of this criticism from the court of auditors. i myself would be very grateful, and i think the president would be grateful too, if the commission had a responsibility for standards in nuclear safety. i must tell you, however, that the member states - and you, as an austrian member of the european parliament, know how closely the member states are watching the melker process, which the commission is only moderating between austria and the czech republic - are very firmly opposed to the commission creating facts which would lead to the creation of european community law on reactor safety standards. i am prepared to come back to this again if i should learn of this report from the court of auditors. as regards the question of the announcement by the turkish prime minister, what mr ecevit has said is nothing new, i have known this from many talks and publications for over a year. our answer is quite clear. if there is no political agreement in cyprus, firstly, if the member states decide to accept cyprus and parliament agrees that cyprus should be admitted, secondly, and thirdly, if turkey reacts in this way, which is purely hypothetical at the moment, but if that happens, it would lead to what is probably the most serious crisis in relations between the european union and turkey. i do not see how we can get out of this crisis quickly.
madam president, i should like to return to the question of what used to be called the madrid criterion, the question of implementation capacity. how will the institutions in general, in particular the member states, judge, and by what criteria will they judge, whether the applicants have arrived at the happy state of having an implementation capacity? i share and salute the headline goal, but i wonder what is its measurable content? the problem is that in parliament we have not had the opportunity yet to read all these contrary reports which have been adopted. but given the comments that the commissioner has just made about turkey, could he characterise – because we have not yet had the chance to study it – the political mood of the turkey report? i hope it is a report which gives sufficient and due recognition to serious attempts at change. there are serious deficiencies which remain, but engagement with turkey in the light of the earlier comments is an even more profound necessity in the near future than it has been in the recent past.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. each state of the union shall undertake its own situation analysis in the light of the terrorist attacks of 11 september and, in that regard, shall take the additional measures necessary to increase the physical protection of nuclear installations and of the materials they use or store. it is expected that they will examine all the options in detail. for obvious security reasons, many of the details of these additional measures cannot be made public. on the other hand, it is clear that the best way to reduce the threat posed to nuclear installations, or any other installations, by the possibility of terrorists deliberately crashing an aircraft into them, is to make it impossible, or extremely unlikely, that they can hijack a large commercial aircraft beforehand. in this connection, the commission would like to remind the honourable member of the measures it proposed on 10 october last for the adoption and implementation of common european union standards on civil aviation safety, which were already seen in a first presentation at the last council of transport ministers. these measures are intended to address this point.
commissioner, i find that answer extraordinarily complacent. we all know that nuclear power plants were not designed to withstand collisions with large aircraft, particularly jumbo jets. you say that it is not that easy to hi-jack an airplane. only yesterday there was another terrible accident in new york. i hope it was an accident and not an act of terror: at this point in time it is not entirely clear. let us all pray that it was merely an accident and not something that was designed to kill all the people on board. i am sure we all sympathise with the families. this is a very serious matter. all i am asking is, will the commission prepare an analysis? surely you can say "yes" to that and not just pass it off as the responsibility of the member states. you have powers under articles 34 and 35 of the euratom treaty. according to a recent european parliament study you are not exercising your powers under those articles. could you please comment on that aspect of my question. have you looked at that study? have you looked at your powers, and can you at least prepare some kind of an analysis? i am not asking you to disclose the discussions you are having with the member states. clearly, that may be inappropriate. but can you not do something?
i have a supplementary question to mrs ahern's question. is the recent decision giving the go-ahead to the mox plant at sellafield not unacceptable? is this not a violation of the un convention on the law of the sea? we have been raising the sellafield issue here for many years. i would like to ask what your position is with regard to the un conventions? do you believe in upholding them? do you consider that the authorities responsible for sellafield have a duty to consult ireland in this decision? do you consider that even at this stage a full european-backed environmental impact assessment should be carried out?
mr president, in deference to you and following the very comprehensive and satisfactory reply given to me by commissioner reding, i waive my right to a supplementary question.
mr president, we are all aware that the european union is highly dependent on external energy sources and has very limited scope to influence energy supply conditions. that does not mean, however, that the european union should not do more to promote the use of alternative energies and safer and cleaner energies. it must also play a leading role in ensuring that all the conditions of the kyoto protocol are implemented. the broader international community has not covered itself in glory in the efforts to ensure that the depletion of the ozone layer is stopped. this report refers to the fact that nuclear energy in europe will be playing a less significant role, following the decisions by five member states to phase out the use of nuclear energy in the future. it also states that no country in europe is currently constructing new nuclear reactors. it would be greatly appreciated in ireland if you would inform the british government and bnfl of this fact. the british government is currently planning the expansion, not a reduction, of nuclear activities at sellafield. the mox facility at sellafield means more nuclear reprocessing, not less, and nobody in the british government and bnfl can deny this. in ireland we are sick and tired of bnfl breaching so-called high standards of regulation in their nuclear operations. we cannot easily forget that bnfl falsified documents in relation to nuclear reprocessing contracts with the japanese government. where are the stringent standards of regulation, when you are dealing with a company that has falsified documents and has been shown time and time again to operate its affairs in this very slipshod manner? i believe that bnfl is technically insolvent. its liabilities for cleaning up after the closure of nuclear plants and the disposal of nuclear waste will be up to gbp 34 billion, while it has gbp 235m worth of shareholders' funds on its balance sheet. what is the economic justification for the continuation of the sellafield nuclear plant, let alone the expansion of its nuclear operations in the future? are the british people fully aware of the extent of movements of nuclear materials by rail and sea in britain? in ireland we are very concerned about the security arrangements at sellafield in the light of the terrorist attacks in america on 11 september. what assurances can the british government give the people of ireland that maximum security operates in the region? we know the type of devastation that would occur if a twin towers type attack were to take place at sellafield.
mr president, my group very much supports the report by mrs corbey and the compromise amendments, which improve the text. we also have some amendments of our own which we would urge members of parliament to support, particularly as the directive makes it more difficult for member states with more progressive policies to go ahead in a more environmentally friendly way. there should be nothing to prevent member states from making progress. i received a briefing from my own department of the environment in ireland today, bemoaning the fact that it was going to be very difficult for ireland. that is only because ireland has done nothing about the waste problem or about packaging. in two other amendments we look to the commission to present a proposal which takes proper account of the role of packaging throughout the logistics chain. it should also be putting forward proposals on prevention and reduction. that is where the problem really lies. we need to reduce and prevent the amount of packaging first of all, not look at what we are going to do with it afterwards, particularly the amount that goes into landfill.
mr president, i should like to express concern at the commission emphasis on large integration projects, which would impact badly on small community-based enterprises as promoted within the framework of rural development programmes and research in the agricultural and associated food sector. it is now clearly established that the eu-assisted programmes, such as leader, have the potential to create sustainable employment in rural areas where more centralised programmes would have failed. i do not have the time to concentrate on the need for ongoing research in the food sector and the potential of new technology in improving product diversification, quality and consumer satisfaction. how soon can we expect a clear and definitive view on the potential or otherwise of genetic research as applied to practical farming? delays in this area are leading to confusion on the part of consumers and may well be depriving european agriculture of the tools necessary for sustainability, quality and competitiveness. what have we learned from the recent scares such as foot-and-mouth and bse? will we know what to do to avoid a repetition of the demoralising experience of a foot-and-mouth epidemic out of control? finally, and not for the first time, i want to express my concern about research on human embryos. this parliament must exercise the most stringent controls in that area.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his hard work and for the many additions to the commission's proposals, particularly on health and disease and sustainable transport. however, this was undermined in committee by what mr van velzen has already referred to as the joint result. the proposals on health and transport emerged very much weakened. our citizens will want to know why we want to spend more on space research than on sustainable transport. it is not their priority. on ethics in biotechnology, the proposals allow funding of research into the alteration of the germline of human beings. this is unacceptable to mainstream science. the greens have tabled an amendment which is congruent with the position of most researchers in the field and this must be supported. on stem cell research, the production of human embryos for research is unacceptable and it is very unacceptable to most of our citizens as well. the temporary committee on human genetics has come to very useful conclusions here and its report should have been taken before this debate. however, amendments have been tabled in line with its proposals and these must also be accepted by the house, otherwise we will be in deep conflict with our citizens. as regards gmos and plant genetics, the proposals that were adopted in committee would put genetically-modified foods on our table and will be forced on european consumers, quite contrary to what many want. this is again a recipe for conflict and it was not in the commission's proposals. regarding energy, equivalent funding for renewables and nuclear is required. we have allocated over eur 1 billion for nuclear funding and nowhere near the equivalent for renewable energy. this again is completely unacceptable to our citizens. if we are not to have a conflict between science and society, which the commissioner has been very anxious to avoid, we will need to revise these priorities. for example, proposals on fusion are out of date. both the us and japan are pulling out of this research completely.
mr president, i am in favour of research. we all want to find cures for illness and i am sure that in each of our families we have personally experienced the sadness of incurable disease. over the past year in the temporary committee on human genetics and other new technologies we discussed various ways of finding answers to these medical problems. we voted last week to support the funding of uncontroversial stem-cell research using placenta, umbilical cord and adult stem cells. we voted with cross-party support to ban funding of research resulting in the destruction of human embryos, any kind of cloning, the use of surplus embryos and germline intervention. the majority, therefore, in the temporary committee, whose aim it was to draw up ethical guidelines for the european union, rejects the research funding suggested in the caudron report. eu funding should not be promoted for controversial research, banned in four member states, my own country included. respect for the dignity of the human person is a fundamental principle upheld in all european and international agreements. i urge that we do not desert this principle. many citizens, myself included, believe that there is a more acceptable, ethical and moral way forward than the one which leads us to destroy one innocent human life in order to cure another. i urge you to reject the funding suggested in the caudron report.
madam president, the war in afghanistan is clearly now producing military dividends, as has been seen in the past 48 hours in the extraordinary scale and speed of the collapse of the taliban, although they still remain potentially very powerful in large parts of the country and the terrorists they have been succouring remain hidden from view. however there are aspects of the war and not just the terrorist aspect which have been kept hidden and one group i should like to mention – to which, madam president, you paid tribute on monday – is the journalists who paid the ultimate price to tell us the story. we know so little about modern war and we are so excluded by the powers-that-be that without the commitment and professionalism of journalists we would know nothing. we need to reiterate that debt of gratitude. what we know from the comparative success in mazar-i-sharif and now in kabul, and even reports of the front line extending to kandahar, is that new challenges are presenting themselves. the international coalition – particularly the united states and not least its president – has assumed that the northern alliance is in some ways biddable, that it will do certain things and not others. so we were told with some certainty that it would not take kabul. but it is there. it seems to me that it is not quite so biddable as many in the coalition suggested or hoped. it makes all the more urgent the diplomatic initiative to generate respect for the rule of law and a stable governmental process, even if not yet a stable government. it becomes more urgent because new freedoms are emerging even as i speak, as we can see in the television pictures from kabul. but we also hear of new fears, because afghanistan has a brutal history and the brutality was not just the work of the taliban. so there is a great need for urgency. the second challenge is the humanitarian one, which preceded the war but has been compounded by it. now that there is a larger swathe of territory not subject to taliban control, we must visibly and urgently assess what needs to be done and be present on the ground. our support for the humanitarian effort needs to be translated into practical action. the commissioner spoke of extraordinary amounts of money, which i think he said were largely unrecognised. unfortunately europe's contribution is often unremarked in these situations, and we have to have a visible presence on the ground and show our solidarity, not just in the military campaign but also in the humanitarian effort. i have two final comments. one concerns the middle east. i salute the quiet but effective diplomacy of mr solana and his colleagues, the belgian presidency, the commission and others, because, while america has been looking in another direction, we have managed to de-escalate the worst of the tensions, a necessary prelude to the mitchell process which is the path to a viable peace. colleagues have referred to the european security and defence policy. my group is strongly in favour of it and welcomed the moves in that direction. we thought that was what esdp was, until we discovered recently at downing street that it is european security and dining policy. madam president, i should like to hear your comments on the european security and dining policy, which runs counter to the concept of a european security and defence policy that is for all and not just for some. (applause)
madam president, recent events have demonstrated to the world that the military strategy being pursued by the american government in afghanistan is working. the removal of the taliban from power in afghanistan is a legitimate objective. the taliban is harbouring osama bin laden, an international terrorist who has committed heinous acts of terror, not only this year, but in recent years too. harbouring terrorists is a crime in itself. the fall of key strategic cities in afghanistan this week will certainly help in the process of eroding the power of the taliban. but much work remains to be done if the taliban are to be defeated in the near future. they are a military force to be reckoned with and they have extensive military experience. i hope that the taliban regime can be defeated and replaced by a broader alliance of political groupings in afghanistan. this is not going to be an easy task, but it must be vigorously pursued as a military option. under un resolution 1373 it is incumbent on us all to ensure that those involved in perpetrating such vile acts of terrorism in america last september are brought to justice. we too must prevent further terrorist attacks, and this can only be achieved if the international community continues to work closely together. one issue which clearly needs to be addressed in the context of the war in afghanistan relates to the humanitarian needs of the afghan people. the international community, under the auspices of the united nations and through the european union, must bring forward a visible and viable strategy to guarantee that humanitarian supplies are delivered to the afghan people. a visible humanitarian strategy must be an absolute priority if the afghan people are going to be able to live through a very cold winter. there must be a safe and consistent delivery of humanitarian aid to those in need. this can only be carried out with the involvement of the international community and key non-governmental organisations. in time the united nations and the european union should be given positive roles as new political structures develop in afghanistan. we must all play our part in guaranteeing that international terrorism is defeated. clearly, a multi-faceted approach is needed if we are to guarantee that the roots of international terrorism are tackled head-on. in conclusion, it is very important that we reiterate the message that the war against terrorism is not a battle against islam. there are millions of muslims living within the union who are fully integrated within our societies and who contribute positively to the development of the european union. the european union as a political entity is a friend, and will always be a friend, to the muslim people. we must reaffirm this message at every opportunity.
mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for her response, even though it was very short and curt. would the president-in-office of the council agree that fisheries are important to peripheral maritime areas throughout the union where there is no alternative source of employment? would she also accept that in my country, ireland, the fishing industry has not benefited to any great extent from its membership of the european union, because the most prolific fishing grounds within a reasonable limit of our coast are being plundered by greedy maritime states within the union. would she, during her term of office between now and the end of the year, investigate what could be done for areas right around the irish coast, including my own area in the west of ireland, which once had prolific fishing grounds that have certainly not been plundered by our small inshore fleet? would she also accept that regional development policies and fisheries policies should not be looked at in isolation, but in tandem?
i thank the president-in-office of the council for her reply. does she agree that there is a need for greater coordination between national policies and those designed to achieve rural development objectives and that there should be more concentration on decentralisation and the creation of new employment opportunities in the regions? what new action can now be taken to encourage and achieve this objective? will the president-in-office of the council ensure that this matter is placed on the agenda for further consideration by the spanish presidency?
counsel. - the judgment ec 184/99 to which you refer, mr president, was not delivered until 20 september 2001. it is therefore still a little early for the council to have had time to study the matter in all its implications and, as a rule, the council will respect this judgment of the court and of course draw all the consequences. in any event, it is for the member states to draw the consequences of the judgment. it is a somewhat short answer, but it is mainly related to the fact that this judgment was only recently delivered.
i appreciate and understand the constraints which the president-in-office of the council has with this question. however, on a number of occasions in this house i have raised the issue with regard to, in particular, erasmus students who have been treated differently in different member states. one of the consequences of this judgment is that there will now be an obligation on all member states to ensure that there is a common system available to give assistance to those students who are in erasmus programmes or who are studying in full-time programmes in countries other than their own member states. therefore i ask the president-in-office of the council to bring up this matter immediately at the next council meeting, if possible so that there will be no more delays, so that opportunities will no longer be denied to many students who have not benefited up to now, or whose parents have had to pay for them to study abroad; and so that these anomalies and inequalities will be removed in future.
counsel. - i can only take note of your formal and urgent request to deal with this matter and repeat that the council will comply with this judgment of the court as soon as it has been studied in all its consequences and implications. but i take note of your wish that the council should be able to deal with it.
i should like to ask the president-in-office of the council whether she can confirm my belief that european citizens are entitled to benefit from this decision, whether or not the member states have put provisions in place to interpret the decision? am i correct in thinking that from the date the decision is made citizens are entitled to benefit from it?
mr president, i would like to ask you to give me a few brief comments on the matter. i really hope that the council will have time to look at the implications of the judgment and to identify to what extent the question you have asked is confirmed, refuted or interpreted. i therefore hope that the council will be given the necessary time to consider the implications, and therefore the consequences, of this judgment of the court of justice last september.
mr president, on a point of order. for information, i am referring to a previous court decision which decided that, irrespective of whether a member state had put implementing provisions in place arising from its decisions or the decisions of the council or the commission, citizens are entitled to benefit from those decisions. i am simply asking the president-in-office of the council if she can confirm that the outcome of this particular court decision means that citizens will benefit, whatever those benefits may be, from the date of the decision and that no member state is entitled to seek to restrict that.
the council, at its extraordinary session on 21 september, decided that the fight against terrorism would be a priority objective of the european union more than ever. the great importance which the council attaches to this struggle is also clear from the number of meetings which various council formations and the european council have devoted and will continue to devote to this subject under the belgian presidency. in this context, it should also be recalled that the european union, in the conclusions of the general affairs council of 8 and 9 october 2001, reaffirms its action in favour of non-proliferation and disarmament. with regard more specifically to the two questions asked, the council draws attention to the fact that, for the most part, measures concerning the physical security of installations are a matter for national competence. regardless of the specific circumstances you are referring to, the eaec treaty has laid down the procedures for the safety control of nuclear material for civil use in the european union, that is to say, the whole range of measures to verify that nuclear material and equipment are not diverted from their intended use, which is of course for peaceful purposes. the commission is responsible for ensuring the implementation of these provisions and the community regulations deriving from them, in particular regulation 3227/76 implementing the provisions on euratom security control. in particular, the euratom safety inspection office is responsible for verifying, by deploying inspectors where necessary, that nuclear plant operators comply with the control obligations contained in the treaty and those laid down in regulation 3227/76. at international level, there are several legally binding instruments to which the united kingdom and the other member states are parties, for example the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material of 3 march 1980, several of whose provisions cover, for example, the theft or other unlawful removal of nuclear material, and require the cooperation and assistance of the other contracting states parties to the party who is the victim. more generally, the treaty on european union provides for police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters between member states, in particular in article 29. it is on this basis that the council is currently examining a proposal for a council framework decision on the fight against terrorism. the proposal contains, inter alia, provisions establishing a list of terrorist offences in article 3 and a list of minimum penalties and sanctions in article 5, provisions on extradition and prosecution in article 11 and cooperation between member states in article 12.
i thank the president-in-office of the council for her lengthy reply, much of which i have heard before. is the president-in-office of the council aware that british nuclear fuels is technically insolvent? is she aware that its liabilities for cleaning up after the closure of nuclear plants and the disposal of nuclear waste run to gbp 34 billion, while it has gbp 235 million worth of shareholders' funds on its balance sheets? would she also agree, under those circumstances, that there is not the slightest economic justification for the continuation of the sellafield nuclear plant, let alone for seeking to expand its nuclear operations into the future, and that, indeed, the plant should be closed? if the commission would – as we have requested for years – have an independent nuclear inspectorate look into the sellafield operation, they would have found this out some years ago. perhaps they can find it out now.
i would like to draw the president-in-office of the council's attention to the fact that she has not addressed the second part of my question relating to the fact that british nuclear fuels has not yet established the economic benefits of the mox fuel plant, which it is obliged to do before it can commission it under existing eu regulations. i would also draw her attention to the report of parliament's stoa committee. this is a research committee which has commissioned an extensive report on both the sellafield plant and cap la hague plants, and it has raised fairly serious concerns about the emissions to air and water from both the cap la hague and the sellafield plants. it draws attention to the inadequacy of the commission's capacity to carry out its functions under the euratom treaty, and it has also drawn attention to a german study which has indicated that both the cap la hague and sellafield plants have something like ten times the permitted dispersal-to-air of radioactive pollution.
counsel. - i will reply that the tasks and duties you are expecting in terms of control or arbitration are duties which are assigned to the commission and on which i am not authorized to give you any details on behalf of the council.
mr president, on a point of order. i have asked the president-in-office of the council if she would address the second part of my question, and she has not done so either in her first or second replies.
mr president, i am pleased to inform the house that the un fish stocks agreement will enter into force on 11 december. this follows the thirtieth ratification by malta, shamefully with no ratifications by the eu. turning to morocco, the greens will be voting against this proposal, not because we oppose compensation for fishermen put out of work, but because we oppose this particular package. firstly it provides increased premiums for only certain people, those involved in morocco. this discriminates against other fishermen and ship owners. secondly, it will fund even more transfers of vessels to third countries, including flags of convenience, and there are still no controls in place to prevent this. thirdly, it sets a very bad precedent if every time an agreement collapses or problems entirely foreseeable arise, we decide to dish out huge sums of european taxpayers' money. clearly, the problem with fisheries agreements has to be addressed. morocco is the first, but there are more to come.
madam president, before the debate begins, i just want to pass on the feelings of the people in ireland regarding the future of our national airline aer lingus. prior to the terrorism in new york, it was a star performer in the airline industry, carrying 1.1 million passengers. it is a great provider to our national economy. there is a great wish that it not be regarded as the government giving national aid to keep this flying.
mr president, the terrorist attacks in september have disrupted the operations of many airline companies in europe, resulting in job losses in the aviation industry and a reduction in the number of overseas tourists coming to europe. we want to ensure that we retain competitive airline companies in europe. i agree with the key proposals included in the compromise resolutions that are before us today. it is important that the commission works out a set of proposals which make it possible for the european airline industry to withstand the competition resulting from the massive help which the american government is giving american airlines at this time. we must ensure that the european aviation industry receives equal treatment vis-à-vis our american airline counterparts, particularly when it comes to addressing transatlantic arrangements. for example, from an irish perspective, aer lingus is highly dependent on transatlantic travel. other eu airlines also make a substantial profit from their transatlantic routes. it is important that these eu airlines can compete against the american airlines which have received state aid from the american government in recent times.
mr president, in making our decisions on the aviation industry in europe we have to take account of the interconnectedness of our economies and politics in europe and globally as well. the fact is that aer lingus in ireland had already been hit by the downturn in the high-tech industries where much of the lucrative business travel for aer lingus had already been badly hit because businessmen and women were simply not travelling back and forth across the atlantic. clearly, 11 september virtually wiped out that business. tourism is also a major linchpin in the economy of ireland. our airline is an important asset in that area of the industry. if we allow that to go down the drain, who is going to service the irish tourist economy? the council and the commission are, i am afraid, confused. they are minimalist and grudging in their response to this crisis for the irish airline. that is perceived to be so by the workers of aer lingus and the irish people in general. we will pay the price in europe for that perception. it is important that we recognise that the national carrier in every member state in europe is as important as the national anthem or the national flag. you can shake your head, but that is the reality. we have to take that into account. we may regret it, but we must take it into account in dealing with this crisis. finally, there are four things i would ask the commission and the council to address. there is an urgent need for a reply to the irish government's request to the commission for permission to assist the irish airline with the compensation that is due as a result of 11 september. there is an urgent need for the reform of the competition rules. there is an urgent need for assistance to help companies create alliances at a european level, which will ensure that the national carriers are not annihilated. finally, we need firm proposals for the social fund package that has been talked about here today. parliament should be discussing those proposals when we next meet in strasbourg in december, not next june.
in writing. - there are only 46 days left before the introduction of euro banknotes and coins in the 12 countries participating in the new euro currency system. the withdrawal of national currencies and the introduction of a new single european currency are not easy things. the twelve countries of the new euro area alone have a population of over 290 million. however, i think that eu governments have been very proactive in implementing large-scale information campaigns about the practical changes to come. it is very important that both small and large businesses contact their local banks to estimate how much money they will need to continue their business from 1 january next. studies carried out within the eu have shown that banks expect all atms to have the necessary stocks of euro banknotes. the european central bank welcomes the fact that the necessary amounts in new euro banknotes will be distributed to financial institutions in countries outside the euro area. i think a five-week transition period is adequate. it would simply be too much to ask of small european companies to deal with two different currencies over a six-month period, as was originally planned. i am pleased to know that the various consumer associations in europe will be vigilant during this transitional period to ensure that the interests of consumers are protected when the euro is introduced. i am of course in favour of introducing measures to reduce the cost of crossborder and national payments. it is very clearly in the interests of consumers to change the current system. we must build confidence in the structures of the new euro currency. however, the proposed regulation we are considering today does not distinguish between efficient and inefficient payment systems. this regulation does not properly address the relationship between the euro and the currencies of the member states outside the euro area. i believe that the euro can be said to promote economic stability, and i believe that this has been clearly demonstrated since the tragic terrorist attacks in the united states last september. we do not want to give international speculators the opportunity to play european national currencies against each other. this would only lead to a wider devaluation of the value of the euro, which is exactly what happened in the autumn of 1992. the euro is good news for european businesses. it reduces export costs. it is good news for european travellers and contributes to the medium- and long-term economic stability of the european union.
our debate today is on the future of europe and i might take that as a point of departure. president prodi has talked about the indispensable necessity of the institutional triangle: the commission, parliament and council. it is indispensable and each part of it has a core, indispensable role and responsibility and benefits by the very fact of the three parts working well together. personally, i am getting increasingly fed up with so-called analyses in newspapers and commentaries on issues of personality which miss the points of substance. the point of substance about the role of the commission is that it is at the heart and core of the european project – and it is indispensably so – and that is the structure of truth which we must promote, defend and constantly revisit. with regard to a sense of europe as hans-gert poettering mentioned earlier, i believe it has been diminished at the highest level through members of the european council. every state has a right to bilaterals and multilaterals but there is a time and a place for every one of those initiatives. it is not the time and place to conduct such an initiative immediately preceding and in the same place as a council meeting that is meant to discuss the same issues, as at ghent. when we reduce the european security and defence policy to the somewhat farcical theatre of presence or absence at the dining policy at downing street, we diminish the idea of europe itself and we need, from the top down, at the level of the european council, a commitment to an internally consistent and coherent sense of europe. the commission president and enrique barón crespo have both referred to this question of the interinstitutional dialogue and balance and president prodi has talked about the very sensitive issue of call-back procedure. the one plea i would make, and we have already asked parliament's constitutional affairs committee to deal with this question with some urgency, is that before us now is the responsibility, among other things, to begin to implement one major part of the structural economic reform programme of lisbon, namely to create a single european market for financial services. if we cannot work out the levels of commitment and lay down rules with proper conditions between parliament, commission and council, we run the risk of failing to meet the target and the necessity for reform. there is therefore a general urgency and, in some parts, even a specific one. i hope all candidate countries will participate in the convention, under the principles of helsinki, namely equal treatment. that is all and there are 13 candidate countries. secondly, i hope there will be a minimum period between the convention and the igc. i agree with all those who said that this business of reform must be finished before the next european election because then there will be a new parliament, a new europe after enlargement and a new commission. (applause)
this is an important debate and i would like to compliment the commission on its publication of the white paper on european governance. in light of recent developments, it is obvious that it is a time for stocktaking but there can be no doubt about the relevance of the european union to member states and its citizens. in most respects the european union has lived up to the ideals and aspirations of europe's founding fathers. the achievement of peace alone justifies our existence but we have achieved much more, not least the fact that the ideals enshrined in the treaty of rome – of assisting economic and social development of small and under-developed countries – have by and large also been achieved. ireland bears witness to this fact and, despite the outcome of the nice treaty, irish people readily acknowledge the benefits of our membership and also support proposals on enlargement. so what has gone wrong? we have failed, in my view, to communicate europe. citizens do not feel part of the european family. their perceived isolation from the decision-making process has left them frustrated and cold. that sense of abandonment has led to the apathy and indifference as demonstrated by the lower turnout in recent european elections and, in ireland's case, rejection of the nice treaty.
madam president, i too would like to join others in welcoming the opportunity to have this debate. the time is so short that it will not allow us to get fully into all the intricacies and details. however, i can say at the outset that every one of us is in common cause in opposing terrorism and violence of any kind to further political or other aims to that end, we would support coordination and cooperation between the member states in protecting the rights and interests of each of the member states and of the european union as a whole, as well as its 370 million citizens. at the tampere summit we took the first step towards that process. however, what is before us here today with regard to the european arrest warrant represents a major interference in and alteration of the national criminal justice systems and the civil rights and protections afforded to each individual within each of the member states. it is a mistake to move this far, this quickly, without properly understanding or fully recognising the differences between the criminal systems within the european union. therefore, i would urge all members to support the amendments tabled by myself and my colleagues, in particular, amendments nos 92 to 101, which put in place firstly, the requirement for a judicial review or a right to appeal against the warrant at both the executing and issuing stage, secondly, a common list of positive offences, which must be drawn up and not used as a stumbling block, thirdly, no interference with the double jeopardy rule, fourthly, that there must be prima facie evidence presented before the warrant can be enforced, and finally, to ensure that there is a quick trial process where a warrant is issued. i have represented constituents in other member states in the european union where they have been held without trial for two years, without getting any opportunity for habeas corpus or any opportunity to present their case. finally, on the overall package on combating terrorism, we have to ensure respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. it is no good for the commissioner to say that we have the charter of fundamental rights: that is only a non-legally binding political decision. each member state has signed up to the european convention of human rights which puts in place specific provisions for each individual. i note that one member state, just in the last week, has ridden roughshod over the rights and liberties of individuals. we as a european parliament, representatives of a transnational organisation, should not allow this to continue.
mr president, this is obviously an important debate and i share the concern of members who are anxious to support research to enable the genuine and continual advance of medicine and the improvement of the quality of life for the individual and society, while at the same time, safeguarding the dignity of each individual from abuse, resulting from breaches of the ethical standards necessary for the implementation of these safeguards. scientists who deliberately ignore these safeguards are doing a disservice to science and are acting contrary to the common good. events of recent days clearly bring this possibility into focus and must surely alert parliament to the need for quick and positive action. while not wishing to dispute assurances given by researchers that the breakthrough is not aimed at creating a human being, the reality is that such a fundamental issue cannot now be entrusted to individuals who are free to operate outside existing legislation. on behalf of my group, i fully support the provisions of paragraphs 54 and 55 of the motion for resolution which call for a ban on human cloning, regardless of the technique used, and on other activities which are intended to result in the modification of the human gene line. for citizens, and indeed parliamentarians, this is a sensitive and complex issue and i do not consider myself qualified to deal with the many scientific arguments in this debate. but of this i am certain: society will not tolerate, and must be protected from, any intrusion, deliberate or otherwise, that reduces the dignity and the sanctity of each human being to an object of scientific manipulation. we, who share in the wonderment of our creation, must act now in the interests of mankind.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report on a difficult subject. i believe that parliament must firmly reject human cloning. recent developments in the united states are alarming indeed, but we cannot allow experimentation with, or a market in, human life. technically speaking, there is no difference between therapeutic and reproductive cloning. if we allow human cloning to proceed under the guise of therapeutic cloning, we risk abuses which i fear would result in the production of a handicapped or impaired child. this is my greatest fear about this experimentation and i believe those fears are well-founded in some of the statements made, such as those of dr antinori. human embryos should not be created for research purposes, but this has indeed already happened in the us this summer. patent protection must be excluded from such experimentation. women are being used as the raw material for such research because there is an invasive procedure to extract eggs, the raw material for cloning. there is already a commercial trade in this, which is very reprehensible.
during this debate it has at times been difficult to distinguish heat from light. as politicians we have a duty to inform ourselves before being dogmatic and proscriptive on matters of medical and scientific research, albeit with the regulatory tool of the precautionary principle for areas of scientific uncertainty available to us. we must allow research to continue in order to relieve the suffering of the millions with serious diseases and spinal injuries, alzheimer's, parkinson's, motor neurone disease, diabetes, cancer, heart disease: the list is endless. however, the proper regulation and licensing of research in the scientific community is a matter for all of us, at member state, eu and international level, and the present state of that regulation is of some concern. let me be quite clear. i draw the line under reproductive cloning, eugenics and the deliberate creation of embryos for research. but even the vatican does not ban all embryonic stem cell research: it accepts it on material from spontaneous abortions. to those who would say that it is only a semantic distinction between therapeutic and reproductive cloning, i say: i have a butcher's knife in my hand, i can cut up your steak with it quite legally, or i can cut your head off with it quite illegally – proper sanctions, proper penalties. we have so many examples of that in life today. to not allow public funding for research which is legal in a member state is a curious sanction: nobody is forcing any member state to make any type of research legal. either the research is acceptable and respectful of human life and the dignity of humankind or it is not. how it is funded hardly makes it more or less ethical. let us regulate and license research in this most sensitive and important of areas with commensurate penalties for the exceptional rogue who would put self-glory above the common good and the destiny of humankind. wherever you find him or her, may god direct the hands, hearts and heads of the scientific, political and medical communities at this exciting but frightening and bewildering crossroads in time as we test the frontiers of knowledge.
i congratulate mr fiori. the ethical guidelines in his report were agreed after a year of debate and discussion. there was overwhelming support for ethical research but rejection of any form of human cloning, destruction of human embryos in research, or germ line intervention. we were disappointed therefore when the caudron report, voted recently, provided public funding for research in conflict with these guidelines against the constitutional position of my country and three other member states. now some amendments to the fiori report go further than the caudron report. amendment no 238 would allow germ line intervention for therapeutic purposes and this amendment, combined with amendment no 237, would allow therapeutic cloning. it is ethically wrong to harm or destroy some human lives for the potential benefit of others, and according to key international scientific leaders, research taking place in the united states is proving that using the embryo is unnecessary. new embryology is proving that adult and other post-natal stem cells have vast biomedical potential, as great or greater than embryonic stem cell potential, which is already being described as old embryology. so there are other successful, ethical and non-controversial alternatives. let us remember that some scientific breakthroughs turn out to be ethical breakdowns.
firstly, i would like to say that even though i was here for the theato report i did not participate for exactly the same reasons as mr heaton-harris. it is totally incorrect and wrong that we participate in those kind of votes. turning to the watson report, we all agree on the need for cooperation and coordination in combating terrorism. however, i would like to speak with particular reference to the european arrest warrant. this represents a major interference and alteration of the national judicial systems and the criminal-law procedures within the member states. as well as overturning the civil rights protections which have been built up by precedent and, particularly in britain and ireland, under the common law system, it takes no account of the different legal systems within the member states. nor is any account taken of guaranteeing the right of appeal and right to judicial review at both the executing and issuing stage, nor any account of the rights of the individual concerned. it also fails to set up a mechanism to sort out difficulties and problems arising from a member state's refusal to enforce the arrest warrant outside the specific areas that it excludes. finally, if this law or proposal was brought into any member state or non-member country, parliament would be the first to object and complain. yet when a eu member state re-introduces internment without trial and abolishes the right to judicial review, we remain silent and condone the kind of treatment that undermines civil liberties and totally ignores the european convention on human rights. it is incorrect and it is wrong. even though i voted in favour, i voted with grave and serious reservations.
with regard to this report on the future of the european union, in particular the laeken council, there are a number of items which i could be in favour of as we want to chart out a new and more dynamic future for the european union. however, putting and accepting proposals which quasi agree with a constitution for the future of europe, working on the assumption that this is going to happen no matter what without taking consideration or consultation with the people, is unacceptable. mention has been made also of the democratic deficit and of the need to draw all strands of society together. with a convention we end up with a select few non-governmental organisations supposedly representing the majority of the people in the european union. however, when it comes to an implementation of what will come out of that convention, how many countries will offer a referendum to allow for a full democratic endorsement of the future it wants to see. that is why i abstained on the final vote on this particular report.
in writing. - i wish to record that i voted against certain proposals in the leinen and mendez de vigo report on the laeken summit. i would like to emphasize that i voted against paragraph 4 (d) which calls for 'the abolition of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure'. this is yet another strange attack on the cap, which has served us well. i do not believe that such a move is in the interests of the union and its future. the cap forms the foundation on which the community was established. it still embodies certainty in a difficult economic climate. given the adoption of this and other proposals, i abstained on the final vote. i deeply regret that 430 members of this house voted against the cap policy, as i have already said. in the past, the european union has been a bulwark against recession. it has been a tremendous asset to my own country, ireland, and i know that it will continue to be a dynamic institution for european citizens in the future. however, we should not demolish good structures and abandon our farmers and their families to their fate.
i wish to raise also the discovery of eight people dead in a container of furniture in county wexford over the weekend. the dead included a four-year old boy, a ten-year old girl and a sixteen-year old boy. there were three adults found dead also – two men and a woman – and there are five survivors. it appears that, so far as we understand it, about 11 of these people came from turkey, one from albania and one from algeria. it seems to me quite appalling that we have a situation in europe where people are so desperate that they have to put themselves into the hands of criminals in order to try and find a new life in europe. we have done something serious about dealing with the criminals on the one hand and with our approach to immigration on the other. we cannot continue to allow the situation where people are so desperate that they will do anything and even put themselves and their children at risk in order to find a new life. i would ask those in this house who are supporting mr berlusconi in opposing the european arrest warrant to ask themselves why are they supporting a situation where the criminals who put these people into this container will escape the justice which needs to be meted out to them? could i also ask, madam president... (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president, i hope that the new president will treat all members equally. i have been indicating for quite some time – well before many people who have already spoken – that i want to make a point of order. i have two points. the first is in relation to mr stevenson's attack on a belgian minister who is not here to defend herself. a personal and vitriolic attack like that is unjustified when the person is not present. secondly, in relation to what has happened in ireland this weekend, it is only proper that we should have a debate on this. people are focusing on the wrong aspect. it is quite clear that the fortress mentality of europe is what is causing people to put their lives at risk, by trusting people who are trying to make a profit. we need to open up the borders instead of encouraging this kind of fortress mentality. that is the only way we are going to ensure that people do not lose their lives in such a tragic way. dover and wexford are only two examples of what is to come. finally, i am very disappointed that some of my fellow irish members in this house did not feel that they could support this being discussed in parliament. that is a tragedy, considering that it happened in their own constituency.
madam president, i rise to support the remarks of mr de rossa and mrs mckenna with regard to the horrific situation and tragedy in wexford, ireland. the irish government has already expressed its sentiments in this regard and will be taking appropriate action. i support you also, madam president, in making space on thursday's agenda for a debate on this tragedy.
madam president, the views of the 370 million citizens of the european union on the food chain in europe have dramatically changed in recent years. this is partly due to the advent of bse, foot-and-mouth disease in europe and the chicken dioxin scandal that took place a couple of years ago. of course the consumer is always right, but on this occasion the european union legislators have had to redouble their efforts to improve the safety of the food chain in europe and to restore consumer confidence in food products within the union. it has not been an easy task. however, the white paper mentioned by mr bowis that the commission brought forward outlines a raft of directives and regulations that need to be updated and modernised so as to make the food chain in europe safer. i would like to take this opportunity to commend mr byrne, the commissioner for consumer protection and public health, for his absolute determination to guarantee that european union consumers have total confidence in all food products that are sold within the union. that not only means improving safety standards of production within the union but also tightening up rules and conditions for the importation of food products into the union. the key element of this white paper is the setting up of the food authority, as we discussed today. it is very important that this authority is up and running as soon as possible, no matter where it is located. this european food authority can work with the 15 governments of the union, in an advisory and preventative capacity, to guarantee that food products from farm to table comply with the highest public health standards. we live in an internal market with free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. food is an internationally tradable product and it is therefore very important that a coordinated and common approach is taken to promoting food safety in europe. this is only right and proper in the light of the fact that consumers are criss-crossing the frontiers of the european union on a daily basis. i also support the approach taken by commissioner byrne in guaranteeing that all interested parties are given due representation with regard to the implementation of the new directives and regulations under the white paper on food safety. groups representing the food industry, farm organisations and consumer interests are all actively involved in the implementation of these directives and regulations. indeed, as a result of the amsterdam treaty the european parliament has the power of codecision with regard to the implementation of the new directives and regulations in the area of consumer protection and public health. we intend to remain vigilant at all times so as to guarantee that confidence in the european food chain is fully restored, sooner rather than later. i commend the rapporteur, mr whitehead, and all involved in producing this excellent report.
madam president, life is one constant risk-benefit analysis – what we do, where we go and what we eat. while the european food chain remains one of the safest in the world, recent scandals have damaged our consumers' confidence in the food we eat and the methods we use to produce it. the public has lost confidence in the national and european food safety systems after the scandals and scares with beef, e.coli, lysteria, salmonella, dioxins, eggs, poultry, milk and hormones. the list goes on. the public wants to be reassured that the road from farm to market, to the supermarket, to the oven, fridge and table is as safe as can be reasonably expected. they want safety assessment that is neither secretive, behind the closed front door of the commission, nor tainted by producer or pressure-group interest. since the beginning of your tenure, commissioner byrne, you have responded to the needs of the consumers of europe by making every effort to improve the safety of the food chain. this proposal is one of key importance for consumer protection in the european union. the institutions of the union have come together to set out the principles of food law with a new authority which can safeguard the food we eat and the way it is produced. i commend the rapporteur, mr whitehead, and the shadow rapporteur, mr bowis, for a job well done throughout the discussion in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. the result of their consensual approach has been to strengthen and unify the voice of the european parliament on the key issue at stake. i would ask the commission and the council to listen to this united voice and to adopt 'european food safety authority' as the title of the institution. keeping the word 'safety' in the title of the authority will give a clear signal to consumers as to its purpose and goals. i also firmly believe that if the authority is to have the confidence and backing of the people of europe, it is imperative that it operates and communicates in a wholly transparent and independent manner, dedicated to the assessment of food-safety risk. risk communication will also be a key element. one has only to look at the bse inquiry in the uk and the philips report which stated that breakdown in risk communication was a major factor in exacerbating the crisis there. in conclusion, in relation to risk management, the measured and proportionate use of the proportionary principle or the political management ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the rapporteurs on behalf of my group and on behalf of parliament for the tremendous work that they have done on their joint reports. when we look at what the council agreed upon in lisbon and the new european initiative in particular and consider utilising the advantages which would accrue to europe from the telecommunications revolution, we can see that there are many great opportunities out there to be grasped, but they require proper order, proper rules and proper regulation to ensure their use for the benefit of all. at this point i would particularly like to congratulate commissioner liikanen for the innovative measures that he has brought forward and the way that he is striving to bring europe into the 21st century. i suppose it is appropriate that a man of his origins should be doing that. however, there are a number of dangers and risks and in particular, i want to deal with two aspects. first there is the universal service aspect – the universal obligation that my colleague malcolm harbour was talking about. i will take a slightly different perspective. there is a risk relating to competition, with new regulations and new rules being brought in, that there will be cherry-picking of the most valuable markets, the most valuable layers, and suddenly larger urban areas will benefit whilst rural areas and peripheral areas will lose out. on top of that, as already mentioned by malcolm harbour, there is the question of disabled access. companies and institutions must be forced to adapt their services to suit the needs of the consumers and particularly those consumers to whom the internet and the telecommunications revolution could open the most possibilities of all by bringing them into the real world and bringing them into dialogue. a third area that i wish to focus on is the risk of creating new illiterates or new gaps between those people who have computer and electronic skills and those who do not. we have a population in europe today that is ageing: we have a huge middle-aged and ageing population that may not have the training and the skills necessary to usefully adapt to computers, electronic commerce and so on. what is happening in our schools and providing access in education is very important, but we must look to new ways of bringing in the middle-aged and the aged into the process. finally, the eschola initiative is a great one. – i hope it can be extended to bring in older people and more peripheral areas. my last point is that, when we speak about consumers, let us ensure that we speak about all of the consumers of europe not just those in the largest urban areas.
mr president, i, like everybody else, or perhaps most other people in this house, want a single market. but i do not want a market where competition rules supreme. regulation is necessary both economically and socially. if you have no competition, you will have no service innovation, but if you have cut-throat competition, you will not have service innovation either. it is necessary therefore to get the balance right. so, i would suggest to the commission and council that parliament is offering them an opportunity to improve the balance of the package before them, and i would urge them to accept the proposals being put forward by parliament. by coincidence, the commission came forward today with a working document on the performance of industries providing services of general economic interest, and this also covered telecoms. that document indicates that liberalisation in general is having a net beneficial effect, but i would suggest to the commission that they need to come forward with a lot more research and hard evidence in relation to specific sectors to convince me that it is true in all cases. finally, i would suggest that the commission needs urgently to take on board the suspicions regarding price-fixing with regard to roaming mobile telephone calls.
madam president, when we discussed this last week in the conference of presidents, my group – the liberal democrats – voted to have a debate today and not to postpone it. i regret that my remarks today will mostly be about process rather than content, because i think that we still have not found the correct process. i would, however, like to salute the work the commission has done this year and to acknowledge the enormous progress in the preparation of the launch of the euro; the very substantial progress on enlargement which we very much welcome; the work which is being done in south-eastern europe; the break-through on the world trade organisation and the very stimulating programme on sustainable development. all of those and the work on the common area of justice and security are to the credit of the commission. i very much agree with the focus of next year's priorities which are sensible and acceptable, particularly in that we need to work closely together on promoting the community method in building the future of europe. there are, however, questions in the legislative programme to which we need answers. why last year was only 45% of the programme processed by this time of the year and 55% not? how is it that 117 or 118 new items not foreseen were added? i do not mind flexibility – that is good in politics – but this seems rather more chaotic than one's definition of flexibility. i fully respect the commission's right of initiative, but i would urge that the commission should not simply start in february with a general statement of priorities and then, in november, bring forward a specific work programme. we need an intensive dialogue between times and some intermediate staging-posts at which to make evaluations. we believe, mr president of the commission, like you, in good governance and this parliament will commit itself to being a high quality player in terms of the input and impact on co-legislation, but that requires criteria. we need to discuss with each other – and this is not an attempt to interfere with the right of initiative of the commission – is the law necessary? is it proportionate? does it respect subsidiarity? is it transparent and accountable? what are the options for implementation? can we do some kind of regulatory impact assessment before we go down the line? the commission already has a wonderful process of consultation in place with social partners. share this process with us as well, not because we want to interfere with your right to make the final call, but because we too are players and we cannot be left to one side or not get documents till the eve of a debate. our president has communicated to you a scheme that we would commend. our conference of presidents backs what she has said. our committee on constitutional affairs backs what she has said and if we can do that, next year we will discuss politics more and process less. we have got to get it right. we have to do this early to avoid a repetition of this unnecessary mutual incomprehension which helps none of us to bring good governance to the european union. (applause)
mr president, the current world trade negotiations are important to the future development of the eu, particularly in the context of enlargement. i am satisfied that our negotiators understand the extent of this challenge and – i hope – draw on the benefit of hindsight resulting from our experiences with the current regime. from an agricultural perspective, we must not allow the united states to dictate agricultural policy. on the last occasion they insisted on dismantling agricultural support and then proceeded to provide support for united states farmers at a level three times greater than that received by european farmers. i am very pleased that in the preparatory talks we seem to have reached a satisfactory agreement on export refunds. from an irish perspective, export refunds are crucial because of our dependence on exports to third countries. equally we need to take a strong stand on food imports from outside the eu. we are investing heavily in the implementation of food safety measures and have banned the use of growth promoters. yet eu farmers are expected to compete with imports from countries where those products are used. equally, in relation to sheepmeat, important to european, and particularly irish, farmers – badly managed arrangements with new zealand mean there are no controls to prevent a deliberate new zealand policy to flood the eu market at peak production periods.
in writing. - i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr gargani, again for his report on the european capital of culture 2005. i fully support this report as i represent the city of cork in the european parliament. as ireland's second largest city, cork has a proud history of over 800 years as a centre of learning, industry, commerce and culture. as an important seaport, cork has always been open to outside influences, which has allowed it to develop many new links and contacts. the history of ireland could be identified with that of cork because it was the scene of the same events that affected all of ireland. from conquest and colonisation to the destruction of gaelic language and traditions, from famine to emigration, cork has been at the heart of all these profound changes. today cork is a highly developed modern city, focused on new technologies and development opportunities. however, despite this forward-looking attitude, the city has never forgotten or neglected its past. it protects and treasures its history and culture at the ballet, the opera, the everyman theatre, the triskel arts centre, the national sculpture factory, the crawford art gallery, the crawford college of art and design, university college cork, the cork institute of technology, the academy of music, the college of commerce, to name a few. with its former citizens who have distinguished themselves in music, dance, art and literature, it is very proud of the new generation who are devoted to these fields. in cork, we pride ourselves on the hospitality and welcome we extend to all. we are always ready to meet any challenge with confidence and assured knowledge of our past experience. as european capital of culture in 2005, cork will be a testament to the greatness of our past and a source of inspiration for the future. i take this opportunity to invite you all to cork, now and in 2005. i'm sure you'll be moved by her beauty, her humor, her vitality and her calmness. once you set foot in cork, you'll never want to leave.
i am worried that maybe this scientific report is a way of trying to avoid reducing the time and the distance to what parliament wanted. there was consensus between the environment committee and the agriculture committee on the reduction of the overall journey time and distance. it is very important that the commission takes this on board. i am sorry to say i do not find your answer quite sufficient in relation to the export refunds. you talk about respecting all conditions of animal welfare and say you need a well-balanced solution. european taxpayers do not want their money going to fund something that causes distress and harm to animals. we need to stop the export refunds granted in relation to third countries for slaughter, irrespective of whether conditions are being complied with or not. it is wrong that our money is being used in this way. this is the message that came out clearly from parliament. i would like a commitment from the commission that it is going to abolish export refunds to third countries for slaughter.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. at a time when there are many questions with regard to what europe is doing and what it is about, the one area where we can claim to have success and where we have responded to the concerns of european citizens is in the area of public health. we have been to the fore with in bringing forward innovative programmes tackling common diseases such as cancer, biological hazards, risks to food and food safety, and also the ongoing problems of bse and foot-and-mouth disease. the one certainty, the one foundation stone that european citizens could depend on was the european union. this has been particularly the case because of the role of our present commissioner, david byrne with his proactive attitude to dealing with problems head on, refusing to hide behind any of the cloaks or daggers generally used to get through any difficult political situation. instead, he delivers clear and factual information quickly to the people. what we are asking for in parliament here, in the second reading of the trakatellis, report is a continuation of that relationship with the european citizen, a continuation of the confidence that the european citizens have in us to deliver for them in real terms. i, like my colleagues, do not think that the european union should be involved in setting out treatment programmes or setting out the delivery of medical services to individual citizens – that is obviously best dealt with at national or local level. however, there is much that we can learn from each other. there are practices with regard to medical devices and new technologies which are in use in one member state and are not even discussed in another. the commission and europe can act as the honest broker in bringing together these sides to ensure that we deliver the best possible remedies for people within the european union. i have one area of concern in particular – and there is nothing in the report to help resolve the problem – and that is having a clear account of the illness and diseases suffered right across the european union. for instance, in areas such as autism, polio, cancer – breaking down the individual cancers is probably easier to collate than anything else – cystic fibrosis and other generic and genetic diseases, we have seen continuing problems for people trying to give services to sufferers. if the commissioner could come forward with an idea of being the collator of information, at least we could then say that there is 10% or 12% or 50%, instead of using guess-work or guess-figures as regards the extent of disease, illness or disability prevalent in our union. along with my colleagues, i will support the measures looking for increased funding to be made available. we must live in the real world. the work we are asking for costs money, whether in terms of personnel or resources, and we should be fully supportive of that.
in writing. - i voted against the jackson report on the codex alimentarius because i am really outraged by the unacceptable intrusion into parliament's e-mail system of a veritable tidal wave of letters from the lobbies. their approach has been totally counterproductive and we will do everything in our power to avoid such intrusions in the future.
in writing. - the implementation of the main provisions of the white paper on food safety is of paramount importance if we are to restore confidence in the food chain. the inclusion of unwanted ingredients by feed manufacturers is the cause of bse and dioxin crises. we should commend parliament and the other european institutions for taking swift action to manage this crisis and prevent the problem from re-emerging in the long term. today's debate is an important step in the work to be done to ensure that farmers receive the highest quality of animal feed. once again, i would like to reiterate that in this regrettable fiasco, farmers have been the innocent victims of circumstances totally beyond their control. it is also important to say that farmers welcome the controls on the production of animal feed. it is regrettable that some have exploited the debate on food security to discredit farmers and their role in ensuring the quality of food for citizens. we have to be very careful about our comments about food. the bse and dioxin debates have failed to make the public understand that the quality of european food products is the best in the world, and that consumers enjoy this quality at competitive prices. any exception to this is strongly condemned by european farmers. the latest reports on the future cap are certainly alarming. if we really want the european model of family farming, we must ensure that all those involved in the sector are guaranteed a decent income.
thank you, president-in-office, for your comprehensive reply to the first part of my question. yet again, however, you fail or you are unwilling to understand the thrust of the latter part of my question. it suggests that there are vast amounts of money removed from places such as nigeria and the congo and now in european banks which many people over the years have tried to find a means of returning to the people of nigeria and the congo without success. what i am suggesting is that you, as president-in-office of the council, have a responsibility, under the various conventions i refer to, to ensure that these monies are returned to the various former colonies. surely you now understand fully the meaning of my question and will reply to it and ensure that these monies, which were illegally removed by dictators and terrorists, are returned to the people in the various former colonies?
in writing. -en) in general (and while expressing some reservations about the wording), i agree with the proposed resolution. i believe that the european union should cooperate internationally in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and criminals who exploit all the differences between legal systems in order to escape prosecution. however, my main reservation about this resolution is that it omits any reference to the international criminal court, which was established by the rome convention. once established, this court will allow the trial of any individual suspected of crimes, including war crimes. this court, facing the opposition of the united states government, would guarantee a fair trial and would apply equally to everyone. in the present circumstances, it is more necessary than ever.
mr president, i should like to thank commissioner kinnock for his very clear reply to the oral question. my point directly follows on from mrs eriksson's. it is clear that, in many member states, homosexual couples do not have any rights and there are grave injustices within member states. the only light at the end of the tunnel as regards my own country, ireland, is that our law reform commission announced yesterday – and i suspect it is because they saw something coming down the line from the commissioner – that they were going to make that part of their research programme for the next year. hopefully that will result in the justice that is clearly the right of stable couples, whether they be homosexual or heterosexual. we have had situations where, because of the lack of rights for homosexual couples, people have been evicted from local authority housing on the death of the other partner who was the named tenant. we also see that huge death duties accrue to partners who have bought houses together where, on the death of one partner, the other is faced with a massive tax bill, very often resulting in that person having to sell what was, in the truest sense of the word, a family home. i know you will be addressing some of the anomalies that exist in this but, as mrs eriksson has rightly said, they exist in a significant number of member states and it could cause serious problems in terms of discrimination when we come to implement charges. i wish you every success and i am extremely glad that we have had an opportunity to raise the issue within this house because there is widespread support for it.
rapporteur. – this report deals with a serious issue and that is fishing under flags of convenience. vessels that fish under flags of convenience ignore all the rules, they exploit the best fishing grounds and they wreak havoc. in recent times, as fleets continue to increase and resource abundance plummets, flags of convenience are increasingly used as a means of avoiding measures taken by countries or regional fisheries organisations to manage fisheries and conserve stocks. pirate fishing can be seen as a undesirable consequence of states at last attempting to improve the management of fisheries. the environmental impact of pirate fishing vessels is virtually impossible to evaluate as by definition data on catches are non-existent or, at the very best, unreliable. the impact is known to be severe, even if undocumented, as pirate vessels target mainly high-value species such as tuna, shrimp, toothfish etc.. there are also serious social problems. ship-owners take advantage of the lack of controls to reduce training safety standards, pay minimal wages, and lower standards of living and working conditions. they require long working periods without proper rest and they provide completely inadequate medical attention. they are responsible for many other offences. fishing is now a global industry. fleets from the eu cover all the oceans of the world, as do those of several other distant water-nations. markets are also global. one-third of the total fish production that entered international trade in 1998 was worth over usd 50 billion. capital is perhaps the most global commodity of all. eu fisheries investments can be found in many countries. as a result, a concerted international effort is needed to eliminate fishing under flags of convenience. this will involve the countries issuing the flags or whose citizens work on the fishing vessels, the ports into which they come for re-supply or off-loading, the markets in which the fish is consumed or the home of the capital which finances this destructive phenomenon. as the eu has both one of the largest fishing fleets and one of the largest markets for fish, it can play a particularly important role in regard to flags of convenience fishing. many eu-owned vessels use flags of convenience. some may even have had fifg money to transfer to those countries and i am pleased to see that the commission has now proposed regulations to prevent public funding being used to transfer to flags-of-convenience countries. i would call upon the council to adopt them this week. in contrast, i should mention japan and taiwan, who have recognised the extent to which their longline industries use flags of convenience and they have taken corrective measures by launching programmes to repatriate or to scrap a large number of tuna longliners. at least 62 japanese-built flags-of-convenience longliners will be scrapped by the end of 2002. a further 67 foc longliners built in taiwan will be repatriated to replace older vessels, with no overall increase in fleet capacity. it is expected that this will reduce the foc tuna longline fleet by about half. these programmes are funded by both government and industry. i believe these moves should be highly praised and that this is the way we should proceed as well. spain is proposing a law to list certain flags-of-convenience countries and we welcome that. regarding market state responsibility, the eu is a large market and so it must improve control measures. for instance, currently it only wants to ensure that fish are caught according to rules of regional fisheries organisations which the eu belongs to. this needs to be extended to ensure that fish are caught according to the rules of all regional organisations. it must also be made illegal for eu citizens or companies to trade in fish caught by flags-of-convenience vessels. this is called for in the foa plan of action on illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. we should go in that direction also. the campaign that must be waged against pirate fishing is a global and multifaceted one. all countries with any involvement in the fishing industry – such as catching the fish, owning or crewing vessels, providing harbours, buying the final product – must participate. the eu, as one of the most important regions from all these points of view, clearly has a special responsibility. i can only hope that the commission and the spanish presidency acting together will begin to tackle this very important matter in the months ahead. it is in the interests of all eu fishing industries to ensure that this is done.
rapporteur. – mr president, the fisheries protocol with the republic of mauritania is of vital importance for eu fisheries. the previous protocol expired on 31 july 2001. this new protocol was initialled by both parties on 31 july 2001, fixing for five years the technical and financial conditions governing the fishing activities of community vessels in the waters of mauritania during the period 1 august 2001 to the end of july 2006. the provisional application of this protocol will depend on the first payment being made before 31 december this year. it is therefore of the utmost importance that parliament delivers a favourable opinion this afternoon. it is interesting to note that in 1995, following the unilateral termination by morocco of the fisheries agreement concluded in may 1992 for a period of four years and in view of the likely problems of negotiating a new agreement with morocco, the commission initiated negotiations with third countries so that vessels prevented from fishing as a result of any loss of fishing opportunities off morocco could, if necessary, be moved elsewhere. as a result, a supplement to the 1993-1996 protocol with mauritania was adopted which aimed to offset the loss of fishing opportunities for the community fleet in morocco by allowing for 18 spanish vessels to transfer to the waters of mauritania, a geographical area close to where they operated previously. in remarkably similar circumstances, the failure to renew the last agreement with morocco, which expired at the end of november 1999, has again led to the need to seek increased fishing opportunities elsewhere in order to offset some of the hardship caused by the loss of access to moroccan waters. the protocol before parliament today reflects this need. it allows for increased opportunities for eu vessels, while at the same time providing for greatly improved financial compensation for mauritania – and i will deal with that later. this new protocol with mauritania is now the union's most important protocol with a third country. overall, the protocol offers allocated fishing rights for various species, or category of vessel, to spain, italy, portugal and france. if licence applications from these member states do not cover all the fishing opportunities fixed by the protocol, the commission may take into consideration licence applications from other member states. the table in my report compares the fishing possibilities offered by the protocol under review with those available under previous agreements. from this table, you will see that, although there has been an overall increase over previous protocols, there has been a reduction for a number of stocks. there will be a 30% increase in the number of vessels, which averaged 42 under the previous protocol, to 55. according to the commission, this measure was possible because opportunities had been created by the departure by a number of far east vessels which used to target particular species. there will be a 17% increase in the number of tuna vessels, from 57 to 67. the tonnage for vessels targeting black hake will remain the same at 8 500 grt. for those targeting crustaceans other than crawfish (shrimps and crabs), the tonnage will go up by 9% from 5 500 to 6 000 grt. however, it is important to note that there has been a reduction in the number of pelagic vessels permitted from 22 to 15. the total community financial contribution will be eur 430 million, broken down into eur 86 million per year for the period of the application of the protocol. the eur 86 million for the year comprises eur 82 million in financial compensation and eur 4 million for the financial contributions to fund the various types of fisheries-related assistance set out in article 5 of the protocol. the government of mauritania has full discretion regarding the use to which the financial compensation element is put. following the non-renewal of the fisheries agreement with morocco, this new protocol with mauritania is obviously of key significance. in this regard, it must be stressed that its principal importance does not lie in the scale of fishing possibilities that it offers or indeed in its cost. from a community fisheries and socio-economic point of view, its real interest is the hope which it holds out to people of the fisheries-dependent regions of spain and portugal, such as andalucia, the canary islands, galicia and the portuguese south. these regions, which had so much invested in the moroccan agreement, must be offered real alternatives as quickly as possible.
mr president, i would like to read a section from the april 2001 report of the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries. i have been assured by commission officials that negotiations for third country fisheries agreements are based on information provided by this committee. regarding the most recent stock assessment of octopus in mauritania, the report says "... the assessment conducted in 1998 indicates that the stock was over-exploited..." and it then goes on to say that "... the 1998 working group in nouadhibou recommended a reduction of 25% of the fishing effort exerted by the cephalopod fisheries...". this is a far cry from a scientific endorsement of increasing european fishing of octopus even if certain other fleets have reduced their effort. the commission states that there was a more recent assessment by spanish scientists. however, despite repeated requests, commission officials have so far failed to provide a copy of this document. i believe there is an important principle here in relation to access to information. parliament, which is the budgetary authority, is being frustrated in its attempts to obtain the relevant scientific information on this major third country agreement. i cannot understand how the commission can go for a study by anonymous authors and ignore information provided by its own main committee. parliament has a right to know. the other point i wish to make relates to the clause which appears to facilitate the atlantic dawn. i am curious. i congratulate the commission on taking legal action against the atlantic dawn, but i would now like to hear from the commission the latest on this case.
we all have to condemn the assassinations that took place in papua on 10 november. there is a real danger that more assassinations are being planned. there is an onus on the indonesian government to investigate thoroughly and to bring in the international investigation teams if necessary. it is essential that those responsible are brought to justice. it is also essential that the indonesian government protects witnesses from intimidation and murder and it should also protect organisations, ngos and others from the same threat. it is also important that the indonesian government should replace its kopassus units because they are seen daily as a threat to the papuan people. we also believe that the indonesian government should call a halt to the army's commercial activities in papua. thousands have died on sulawesi alone, where there has been two years of fighting. the indonesian government needs to make an effort to ensure coexistence between the muslim and the christian populations, which had been possible for many years.
mr president, i should like to thank you for the one minute's silence for those who died. there may well be further deaths unless we change our approach to this whole issue of immigration and refugee status. i would like to convey my deepest sympathy to the survivors of this tragedy for the loss of their spouses and their children. the discovery of eight bodies, plus the five people who are seriously ill, in a container in wexford in ireland was an appalling tragedy which has shocked people, not just in ireland, but all across europe. regrettably it is not the first time that this has happened. the suffering and terror endured by the injured and those who died – including four children – during the several days they spent in this sealed metal container is barely conceivable. they spent 53 hours at sea in a force 10 gale in a container surrounded by furniture. the deaths all occurred as a result of lack of oxygen. the very thought of little children being put through that kind of terror is inconceivable. i urge the irish government to enable the survivors to remain in ireland, to help them rebuild their lives, and to provide them with refugee status if that is appropriate. it may be that under law they do not qualify for refugee status, but if this is so they should get it, and they should still be allowed to remain in ireland in any case. the tragedy demonstrates once again the desperate lengths to which people are prepared to go to try to improve circumstances for themselves and their families. we hear much about the privileged treatment given to asylum seekers and i hope we will hear no more of this. the reality of the terrible experience facing many immigration and asylum seekers is revealed in eight people dead and others who are seriously ill. lessons have to be learnt from this tragedy. there is clearly a need for more thorough checking of containers at the point of departure and arrival and for closer cooperation between the authorities in different countries. but, given that it will not be possible to check every single container, given that inevitably others will try this desperate journey, we should look seriously at the question of obliging those who own these containers to put air vents in them. otherwise we are going to face this kind of horror yet again. ireland and europe have to adopt immigration policies based on full respect for human rights as set out in international conventions, such as the geneva convention. our policies have to address in a much more forceful way the political, economic and social reasons why people are fleeing their homelands. we must also relax immigration laws to prevent people from being driven to take these desperate remedies. i very much regret this but i must condemn a statement made by ireland's minister for justice last monday, where he accused those who argue for a more rational and open immigration policy of simply proposing an open door policy on immigration. i am quite happy to engage in debate with the minister but the problem is that, in adopting that attitude and in adopting that frame of reference for this debate, he is feeding the paranoia which is at the root of much of the abuse that immigrants and refugees face in their host country.
i would like to thank you, mr president and colleagues, for the moment's silence for the awful tragedy which took place only this week in my own home county of wexford in ireland. the tragic death of these eight people, including four children, found in the freight container just highlights the daily plight of many asylum-seekers and refugees throughout the european union. witnessing it last saturday will remain with me forever. i would like to join personally with colleagues in this house in expressing my condolences to all those associated with this tragedy. since that awful incident, the bodies of four dead romanians have been found inside a container bound for canada in the italian port of livorno. the scale and european-wide nature of this problem have been tragically highlighted by these episodes and it is up to us as a european community to respond far better than we have done heretofore. since its inception the european union has always been based upon the values of solidarity and community. if the eu council summit at laeken this weekend only addresses the issue of the strengthening of borders as a response to this modern day slave trade, it will have failed not only to respect these values but also to fulfil its leadership role. these appalling incidents highlight dramatically the contradictory attitudes to migration and refugee policies in the eu. europe and ireland increasingly need immigrant workers to do the jobs left vacant by greater prosperity and shrinking populations. but sadly, at the moment more political effort is being put into erecting stronger border controls to keeping migrants out than to developing policies for structured flows of immigration. tragedies such as that in wexford will continue to take place until this contradiction is seriously addressed by all member state governments of the eu. i welcome efforts this week to finalise an eu-wide arrest warrant to deal with these criminal 'people smugglers' who benefit financially from the misery and desperation of others. the single market has brought many benefits to our citizens, but it has also provided the criminals with just that – a single market for their activities. today, more than ever, we need eurojust and europol to deal effectively with the individuals who prey on the misery and desperation of others. in conclusion, the historical legacy of irish economic migration throughout the world in the past two centuries, particularly during and after our irish potato famine of 1845-1849 is one which we as irish europeans should not ignore. we should now be generous enough to take our share of those fleeing persecution and those seeking to make a better life for themselves. if the deaths of migrants in freight containers, on the undercarriages of trains or in ship holds in recent months demonstrates anything, it is that responses to economic migration based solely on the monitoring of the illegal movement of people will not prevent people from resorting to desperate measures to travel to europe. it is imperative that we also address the underlying problems within the countries from which these desperate people flee. perhaps then the tragedy last week in wexford of the turkish, algerian and albanian economic migrants will not have not been in vain.
mr president, for clarification, my group was also an author of this resolution but somehow we got dropped off the list. this is something that we are going to see happening again if we do not look at our whole policy – this fortress europe mentality – the fact that we are building the barricades and the walls higher and higher. we are trying to prevent people from coming in and we need to implement measures which will prevent asylum-seekers resorting to traffickers in their effort to reach a country where they can seek asylum, as they are entitled to do under the geneva convention. there is quite a lot of hypocrisy concerning this issue, and i would like to refer to my own minister for justice in ireland, john o'donoghue. he was crying crocodile tears at the weekend over this event yet he has tightened the laws in ireland in every possible way to ensure that asylum-seekers do not come to ireland to file an application for refugee status, which i would like to reiterate is something that they are entitled to do under the geneva convention. to highlight this minister's hypocrisy further: yesterday, for the first time in the history of the geneva convention, there was a meeting of the 141 countries that signed that convention in 1951. our minister, who was crying over what had happened at the weekend and saying that it was one of his worst fears, did not think this meeting was important enough to attend. we really need to change our policy on how we treat asylum-seekers and refugees and we have to stop building the barricades higher and higher to keep them out. we have to realise that there are people who are desperate to get out of their countries and that there are reasons why they want to leave. they are human beings, they are not the so-called undesirables that some people would like to think. they are exactly the same as the irish who were desperate to get out of ireland at one stage going to america and other places – where they were well treated. we have a duty and an obligation to treat everyone in this world equally.
mr president, i want to remove the second part of the amendment because apparently a lot of people would support the first part, but not the second part. to make it easier for people to support it we have removed the second part.
madam president, dear nicole, my group supported you at the outset. we were proud to do so then and i am proud today after your record in office of two and a half years. you have been an outstanding representative of this house who has earned the thanks and support of everyone here. you took over at a very difficult period when relations had been fractured between the two key institutions of the union, the commission and the parliament. i believe you have succeeded in restoring an effective and substantial working relationship which is so necessary at the heart of a proper functioning community method. i thank you for doing that. it was a strategic act of considerable european importance, not just european parliamentary importance. there have been impressive improvements under your presidency in our work rate with regard to co-legislation and that is due to good management of our agenda. you have been an impressive defender and promoter of the charter on fundamental rights and we salute you for that. you have brought a very special conviction to the fight against terrorism and in doing so you have brought dignity to the democratic purpose of this house. you strongly promoted the case for a convention. one year ago, 11 months ago, 10 months ago – yours was an isolated voice. today your voice is the common currency and we salute you for that. there have been controversies during your presidency and i agree with enrique barón crespo that you indeed had the courage of your convictions. for my part i have always believed that you acted in those controversies without fear or favour. that for me is a measure of the enormous personal integrity and strength which you have brought to your task. of course as a woman you have brought not just the quality of being female but also femininity to this task. you represented that large section of our community in europe which is so inadequately represented, not just in electoral politics, but in so many spheres of public administration and public life. thank you for what you have done for this parliament. thank you for the strength and for the élan feminin which you have brought to your high office and we wish you good luck and good fortune in the future. (applause)
madam president, i too would very much like, on behalf of my group, to thank you for the very great work you have put in on behalf of the european parliament over the last two and half years, which have coincided with major political developments, particularly since september last. i totally agree with all the very many well-deserved, fine compliments which have been paid to you by the leaders of the other groups here today. the presidency of the european parliament has to reflect the views of all its members and i am more than satisfied that you, mrs fontaine, have worked exceptionally hard during your term of office to ensure that all our views were represented on the many occasions on which you had to fulfil this responsibility. i would like to wish you well for the future. you have represented us all with very great dignity and at all times showed great respect for all the members of this parliament. you have spoken out clearly on our behalf when clear statements were needed on the fight against terrorism and the protection of human rights. this is an area of major importance for this parliament and an area in which we are gaining international respect. it was a pleasure and a privilege having you as our president for the last two and half years and for me personally, as someone who supported you unequivocally on the important day at the beginning of your term of presidency, i am very happy to say that you have succeeded beyond all my hopes and expectations. (applause)
madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the belgian presidency and the belgian prime minister for the degree of cooperation with the european parliament. while i have not checked the record, from my own memory i believe prime minister that you may have been here on the floor of this house more often than any of your predecessors in any previous presidency. that is a measure of the personal commitment which you have brought to dialogue with this house and democratic issues in europe. i salute and thank you for that. there has also been a very dramatic change in the mood of this house between now and twelve months ago. twelve months ago we all approached the nice event as an important and defining moment and we felt disappointed when it produced something which resulted in more complexity rather than less, was more incomprehensible to the public rather than less, and seemed to reflect more a sense of deal-making than a sense of ideals behind the european process. at the end of this presidency a balance has been restored and we should acknowledge that. there has been an extraordinary change in mood. the mood now is more upbeat and much of the thanks should go to you, prime minister verhofstadt, and your colleagues in the presidency. one cannot of course confuse mood and substance and so we must now exploit that dynamic for the future through the laeken declaration and through the convention. the laeken declaration is indeed a defining moment for the union and will be a durable measure of the quality of this belgian presidency. the convention method is a defining method. indeed, so many are so pleased with it that, like all successes, it now has many fathers and we all claim our share. but so be it. it is in the nature of success that we should all wish to celebrate it. with regard to the convention, we look forward to its inauguration in march 2002 and we take note positively of the presidency of the convention in the persons of mr giscard d’estaing and mr amato and mr dehaene and those others who will join them. we have to ensure that this convention, through its bureau, works in a single and coherent way. it is a vehicle for europe, for neither more nor less. i want to say to my good friend, hans-gert poettering, that about 10 years ago the former president of the liberal group was looking for political asylum in this house and i want to thank my colleagues in the christian democrats, even before tampere and the development of justice and home affairs, for offering asylum to that man. (laughter)he is a very capable european and i am sure in his hands that the convention can make progress. it is wonderful to feel, as the prime minister has already remarked, that there are no taboos. at least with some of the concepts we have crossed an important bridge. the willingness to contemplate a constitution for europe, is necessary not just for reasons of simplicity but for reasons of stating and re-stating ideals, contemporary values, citizens’ rights, institutional balances, and creating the proper checks and balances. we need this and i am glad that you found the courage and a consensus to build on. september 11 was an extraordinary moment in your presidency, a difficult challenge in terms of our common vulnerability and a recognition that non-europe, or indeed transatlantic unilateralism, could not work. it has been a tremendous success for all the institutions, led by the belgian presidency and the european commission and with the willing contribution of this house, that we seized that moment and that we have understood that our common vulnerability can only be answered by common response. all in all this is a presidency worthy of the challenge of contemporary europe and it is a presidency, mr verhofstadt, which you and your colleagues can take great pride in. we, as your liberal democrat colleagues in this house, also feel a great pride in your achievement. we wish there were more people like you running states in europe today. (applause)
madam president, the belgian presidency assumed the presidency of the european union at an extremely crucial time. the tragic terrorist attacks in america last september highlighted the need for european union member states and our international partners to bolster cooperation to defeat the evils of international terrorism. european union leaders confronted these new challenges with vigour and determination and we are all collectively intent on tackling the scourge of terrorism. the european union has brought forward proposals to prevent our financial systems being used for money-laundering to fund terrorist activities. we must all continue to cooperate more closely in the future to ensure that the twin evils of international terrorism and international criminal activities are defeated. the laeken summit last weekend had to address a whole series of wide-ranging political issues. i note with interest that in the final text of the declaration issued by eu heads of state, they say “the european union is a success story but 50 years on, however, the union stands at a crossroads, a defining moment in its existence”. i fully agree with this political sentiment. we have to be sure that any changes which are brought about within the european union in the future command the goodwill and support of the citizens of the union. this is a very tough challenge indeed, not only for european union governments but also for the european commission, and indeed for ourselves in the european parliament. as the european union develops more closely, we must guarantee that the citizens of the eu support these new developments. without the political support and the goodwill of the people of europe, the eu as a political and economic entity will be badly weakened. i hope that this is one of the core issues which will be addressed by the new convention which has now been set up by the eu leaders. there will be broad-ranging representation at this convention which will afford all participants a time for real reflection as to the direction that the european union must take in the immediate years ahead. how best to sell the message that the european union is a positive force for the people of europe will be a central challenge for the participants of this convention. i support the european union. i believe that the european union has helped to improve living standards within the european union and it has helped to improve our quality of life. but not everyone is convinced of this argument and we must persuade the opponents of the european union of its benefits. the difficulty of this task should not be underestimated. the european council decided to participate in international efforts to restore stability and peace to afghanistan. this was an important decision, affirming the eu’s readiness to provide humanitarian and development assistance to the people of afghanistan. i welcome our political support in this regard but any future actions which are taken on this issue must be strictly dealt with under the auspices of specific united nations mandates. i also welcome the strong support given by eu leaders to yasser arafat’s role as "israel’s negotiating partner both to eradicate terrorism and to work towards peace." eu leaders have rightly called on the palestinian authorities to dismantle terrorist networks run by hamas and islamic jihad and to arrest and prosecute all such suspects and end the armed intifada. equally, european union leaders are right to call on israel to withdraw its military forces, stop extra-judicial executions, lift closures and restrictions on the palestinian people, free settlements and end operations directed against palestinian infrastructure. i welcome the fact that european union is prepared to play an active role in third-party monitoring operations in the middle east and i believe that the european union must and should play a stronger role in any future talks that may take place in the middle east region.
mr president, i welcome the outcome of the laeken summit. on balance it is a very positive one. the decision to establish a european convention paralleled by a forum for civil society is a historic one in its proportions. never again will the future of europe be decided behind closed doors, provided we do our work constructively in the convention. i particularly welcome the possibility of a european constitution as a possible outcome. as has been said by mr verhofstadt, there should be no taboos in our debate and the idea of federalism and a constitution for europe could guarantee the role of the citizens in small states better than any other form of governance. i endorse wholeheartedly the decision of the european summit to give its support to yasser arafat as the leader of the palestinian people and i condemn without reservation the misuse of the security council veto in blocking the appointment of international observers to the middle east conflict. these decisions, however, were tarnished by an unseemly squabble among some member states about the location of european agencies which reflected the worst features of the old way of running europe. i am also disappointed the council did not give its explicit support for a legal framework for public services in the context of competition regulations, as the european parliament urged. finally, i also believe it was a serious mistake to back off from a decision to nominate a european union peace-keeping force for afghanistan under a un mandate. this unfortunately now leaves this area to the dictates of the interests of the more powerful states on the world stage and fails to provide a political presence and role for european values. could i finally say that we should ease up a little on the ageism in relation to the praesidium. i am more interested in the originality or old age of the ideas of these three individuals rather than their chronological age. i do think, however, that had we tried, we could have found an older woman who could have also made an important contribution to the praesidium.
