the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur and stress that there is no fundamental difference in approach between the committee on employment and social affairs on the one hand and the committee on industry on the other. we therefore support the rapporteur's conclusions, and in particular all that he has said about delays which we should avoid in the future. perhaps the committee on industry has put a little more emphasis on the importance of smes for employment, on the need to facilitate access to risk capital, on the need to simplify the bureaucratic and administrative environment and on better coordination between the various commission programmes which are of interest to small and mediumsized enterprises. that is why we tabled amendments and the rapporteur has just explained that, due to unfortunate circumstances, these amendments did not reach him in time. i should like to thank him in particular for having accepted amendments nos 1 to 8, which take up the main points of the amendments tabled by the committee on industry and which supplement the rapporteur's report.
the council. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at the meeting held in pyongyang on 25 and 27 november last year in the framework of political dialogue, the european troika outlined the main elements of the european union's policy towards the democratic people's republic of korea, which had been approved by the council at its meeting on 9 october and 20 november. let me just briefly mention the three most important of these lines of action. firstly, it concerns the union's support for the efforts to achieve lasting peace between the two korean states. secondly, the importance of the dprk taking a responsible approach to non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles and ending its exports in the field of missiles. thirdly, respect for the un convention on human rights. as regards the establishment of diplomatic relations with the democratic people's republic of korea, the council agreed on 20 november last year that the parties concerned should consult each other and inform the council of the content of their discussions with pyongyang. the council has repeatedly called on the dprk to fully implement its commitments under the npt and to cease all production, testing and export of missiles and missile technology. the union has also called on the dprk to sign and ratify the treaty on the comprehensive prohibition of nuclear weapons. the union has also informed the dprk that it expects concrete action on these issues. in all its contacts with the dprk, the union has underlined its grave concern at the serious human rights violations in the country, the number of political prisoners, the absence of national legislation and the refusal of the korean authorities to cooperate in accordance with international mechanisms for the defence of human rights. demands for improvements in these areas have been made. we will continue to stress the importance of these issues. the union welcomes the decision of the democratic people's republic of korea to resume its reporting under the un convention on civil and political rights in the year 2000 and hopes that the country will now be able to enter into a useful and constructive dialogue with the un human rights committee on the basis of its own report. as regards measures, the council invited the commission to examine the question of technical assistance measures which could be taken in the priority sectors. the council and the commission will examine in due course what measures are possible to open the european market to north korean products. feasibility studies will be carried out in the areas considered as priority. the european union will endeavour to extend political consultations with the republic of korea, whose efforts to bring the two korean states closer together are fully supported by the union. it is also necessary to define areas for joint action, including technical assistance and financial cooperation with the democratic people's republic of korea.
commission. – madam president, i very much welcome the opportunity of saying a few words on this extremely important subject. recent events on the korean peninsula are of great interest and concern to all of us in europe and the contribution that we make in helping to promote reconciliation on the korean peninsula, in helping to bring, as it were, the north korean government and society in out of the cold. those efforts reflect the extent to which europe has a global role to play and they match, in a sense, the role that japan has been playing the balkans – helping to support stability there. we similarly have responsibilities in other continents. a european union approach towards recent developments in the korean peninsula was agreed at the general affairs councils of 9 october and 20 november last year. this approach aims, as i have said, to support the inter-korean reconciliation process in order to bring about peace and stability on the korean peninsula. taking this approach as the basis for commission action, the commission will maintain and is considering increasing its assistance to north korea. overall, in the last few years, that assistance has totalled – including the contribution to the korean peninsula energy development organisation – about eur 275m. however, any increases should be measured in response to signs of progress of the dprk in areas of principal concern to us and, i know, to members of this house. respect, for example, for human rights; non-proliferation issues; access for the population to external aid; better operating conditions for ngos – a point i was able to make to the dprk foreign minister in bangkok last summer – and the opening up of the dprk's economy and the structural reform that will be a necessary part of that. this approach has been outlined to the north korean authorities at the recent senior officials troika meeting in pyongyang at the end of november. i understand that my services are keeping parliament fully informed of this issue. parliament has shown an active interest in this subject for some time. the humanitarian and food assistance delivered to the dprk – around eur 200m since 1993 – will continue. a new food security programme for 2000, totalling eur 20m, has just been adopted by the commission. i should point out that we have moved from regular food aid to structural food assistance and, in particular, the provision of inputs and technical assistance to enhance agricultural production. the implementation of humanitarian projects approved in the year 2000 will extend well into the summer of this year. humanitarian aid – mainly medicines, water, sanitation and winter clothes – is planned to continue on a more selective basis, but at a level adequate to respond to real humanitarian needs. we also have the scope to match, with additional assistance, any further progress made by the dprk authorities, notably in terms of access to the most vulnerable populations and the improvement of working conditions for non-governmental organisations. in addition, the commission is now considering possible measures in the fields of technical assistance and trade, which could be gradually extended if north korea makes progress in the areas i have mentioned. as a first step, these measures include a general increase in the dprk textile quota by 60%, 50% in the case of a few product categories. a fact-finding expert mission will be sent shortly to assess needs and identify areas in which pilot technical assistance projects could be pursued. but they certainly include an area which, i know, has been of interest to mr ford – that is the whole question of the energy industries in north korea which will be so important to the country's economic future. as to the establishment of diplomatic relations between the european community and the dprk, the commission is considering the appropriate timing of such a step in close coordination with member states. finally, clearly the nobel prize-winner, president kim dae-jung, has been typically visionary in the efforts that he has made to promote reconciliation on the peninsula. equally clearly, president kim dae-jung has been very realistic about what can be achieved in the short term. i do not think he makes extravagant claims about the pace and development. what is important is to keep our eyes on the horizon and to keep working towards it. we should take our inspiration from president kim dae-jung, who is one of the great statesmen of our age. i hope that with his encouragement the european union will continue to play its part in ensuring that the korean peninsula, the region and, indeed, the world, enjoy peace and prosperity. the consequences if we were to continue to isolate the dprk, if the dprk was to continue to be prepared to be isolated, are too grim to contemplate.
- madam president, the resolution on north korea which parliament is preparing to vote on has a major political significance. the european parliament will not only have decided its position on the northern half of the korean peninsula, but it will also have set the new guidelines for this position for all the european institutions. as chairman of the ad hoc delegation whose visit to north korea inspired the drafting of the resolution, i would like to make three fundamental points. the first is the dawn of a new era in bilateral relations between the two koreas, marked by the sunshine policy of president kim dae jung, who made a strong first gesture with his historic visit to pyongyang in june 2000. it is europe's duty to support the efforts of the entire korean people and the political leaders of the peninsula to achieve stability and lasting peace in korea. it is in this context that our korean policy must be seen and the elements of its action defined. second, korea is the last nation in the world that remains divided by a wall. after germany and yemen, korea now sees a prospect of cooperation in order to overcome its internal wall. europe, which the two korean states have asked to assist them in defining new economic and political relations on the peninsula, must rise to the challenge and show the koreans the way to integration after a long and difficult period of division. the european model of the progressive creation of a frontier-free area is here called upon to serve as an example. once again, it is our political responsibility to provide all conceivable assistance to a korea that is slowly recovering from its historic schism. finally, i would like to say, particularly with regard to north korea, that confrontation and isolation must be relegated to the past once and for all. the north korean leadership seems to be willing to open up and engage in dialogue with south korea, the united states, europe and japan, and although they will ultimately have to be judged on their actions, i am convinced that a european policy of dialogue, structured and critical dialogue, will make a significant contribution to a change in the dprk that will benefit the whole world.
in writing. - (de) the report on the situation of frontier workers tabled by our committee on employment and social affairs is based on the laudable intention to eliminate the discrimination faced by frontier workers in terms of their wages, working conditions and social security, and to remedy the problems which still exist in this respect. that's what we all want. it is, however, an exaggeration to say, as the recitals in the report say, that the internal market, of which the free movement of workers is one of the central points, is an absolute farce for frontier workers. this is as far from the truth as the various statements in the resolution, which contains some demands that are pushing open doors with regard to the 85 000 frontier workers employed in luxembourg. it is simply not right that the dependent family members of frontier workers do not have access to care and social benefits in the country where the workers are employed. there are, of course, differences between the private and public systems. this is also the case for non-border workers. there are, of course, very different systems in the field of pension schemes. this is not only the case from one member state to another, but also within each member state itself. i would also be entitled to a higher pension if i were employed in the public sector. this is a problem that is however unrelated to frontier workers. there are of course differences between member states as regards the organisation, contributions and limits of the pension scheme. the differences are welcomed by frontier workers employed in luxembourg, as our pension system is much more generous than in belgium, france and germany, the countries from which frontier workers come. if elements of the social security system in luxembourg are 'taxed', this situation does not lead to inequalities, because frontier workers are entitled to these benefits, for example in relation to insurance for dependent workers, as is the case in belgium and france. the resolution criticises the fact that no clear distinction is made between social assistance and social security in the member states. nor is it. social assistance is not a problem that directly concerns frontier workers, because frontier workers are employees who do not receive social assistance. i also do not understand what the secondment period has to do with frontier workers. there is a directive for workers temporarily posted by their employer to another member state, but it does not apply to frontier workers. with regard to the judgments of the court of justice of the european communities in the kohl and decker cases, it seems clear that medical benefits for all citizens of the union, including frontier workers, can be claimed in another member state. the report also provides some insight into this. i have made sure that all this is specified. this is not the first time that the european parliament has made ill-considered demands in a report on frontier workers. in the 1998 discussion of the van lancker report, i already stated that it was not correct to say that frontier workers are fundamentally discriminated against. at that time the belgian socialist member of parliament had made the absurd proposal to create a compensation fund for the loss of income of frontier workers. what is important to frontier workers is that the principle that taxes on wages and social security contributions should be paid in the country where they are employed is not affected. this is the prerequisite for frontier workers to enjoy all the social benefits granted by the country in which they are employed to workers resident there and to members of their families. that is the situation in luxembourg and that is the situation that should prevail everywhere. no more , no less .
in writing. - (de) the fact that a report on the situation and prospects of young farmers in the european union is being debated at this very precise moment is of particular importance, given the mad cow crisis. what is happening in our member states since the purely hysterical inflation of the effects of this crisis is certainly not helping to motivate young people to stay in the agricultural sector and to envisage their future in rural areas, where they fulfil an important social function, as this report very well states, in that they participate in the maintenance and conservation of the landscape and that they contribute to meeting the economic, social and ecological needs of rural areas. given the crisis of confidence affecting consumers in particular, we need to be more concerned than ever about the future of agriculture in the european union, where the number of farmers under 35 has been falling the most for some time - down by 28% - and where the percentage of farmers is declining in almost all member states. our report contains all the important and correct observations and recommendations, the implementation of which depends on the number of young people who see their future in agriculture. this is a catalogue which should be taken to heart not only by the commission but also by the council of ministers and all member states if they are to prevent depopulation, desertification and the impoverishment of rural areas, which would be accompanied by a strengthening of social and cultural problems. we need high-quality, sustainable agricultural production in the eu. we must also defend and ensure within the world trade organisation the certifications of origin of our products, especially wine, because the future of the eu and our exports to third countries lies in high quality products for which there are responsible consumers with strong purchasing power, not only in our country but also around the world. there is a tendency to blame agriculture, which is expected to provide ever cheaper production, for the current problems, especially those linked to the mad cow crisis. as a member of the european commission's consumer committee for several years, i would also like to draw attention to the responsibility of consumer organisations, which have constantly demanded lower consumer prices for foodstuffs, without taking into account the income of producers. in the 1970s, 1980s and beyond, they repeatedly spoke out against adjustment of producer prices in the context of the common organisations of the markets for agricultural products. they therefore bear their share of responsibility in the process of industrialisation of agriculture and the transformation of cows into carnivores, without taking into account the fact that farmers are also entitled to a fair remuneration for their work. that is also something i wanted to say here. i enthusiastically support this report because it contains and formulates in a clear and comprehensive way all that is justified and important for the maintenance and support of family farms in europe, an essential condition for the promotion of organic agriculture producing high quality regional products that consumers must learn to appreciate and pay for at their fair value.
- mr president, the united nations commission on human rights is not only a forum for discussion but also an instrument for the promotion and defence of human rights par excellence. it is true that the composition of the commission and the dubious solidarity between member states which do not respect human rights often prevent the adoption of clear and precise conclusions, or even of conclusions at all. but the very fact that a serious case of human rights violation in a un member country is brought up in geneva is in fact a political fact in itself. the countries criticized abhor name calling and undertake a major lobbying campaign in advance to prevent any discussion, and this is precisely where the european parliament, which is committed to the defence of human rights, can play its full role. in cooperation with the ngos concerned, and in particular with amnesty international and the human rights leagues, it may urge the council and the member states to present reasoned common positions on priority themes to the fifteen in geneva. for 2001, it seems to me that the priority themes to be discussed in geneva are above all the death penalty, torture, discrimination against women, failure to respect the rights of the child, freedom of the press and information. among the new forms of violation of human rights, cases of disappearances or extrajudicial executions, often preceded by torture, are particularly heinous. of course, political opponents of the existing regimes are always the victims. such violations, which do not provide for any remedy, are reported, among others, in the russian federation (in relation to chechnya), sierra leone, indonesia, colombia, iran, iraq, the palestinian territories occupied by israel, turkey, etc. i could go on for a long time. the list is long, and not exhaustive. our parliament would be honoured to demand that our governments take a firm stand on this matter. we have just approved a new charter of fundamental rights. we'll have to match our principles with our actions. the families of the victims are waiting for us on the field.
- mr president, commissioner, i am in favour of a much more balanced participation of women and men in decision-making processes than is the case at present. but i am not as pretentious as our rapporteur in claiming that everything would be different and better if women were equally involved in the decision-making process. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. fortunately, there are men who are talented and passionate defenders of the rights and interests we hold dear. unfortunately, there are also women politicians who cannot be counted on, even when it comes to putting more candidates on the electoral rolls. in my long political career, i can tell you that it was mostly women, afraid of my competition, who tried to put the wheels in motion. we must of course note that despite the community's good policy of equal treatment and equal opportunities since 1975, and above all despite the well-intentioned 1996 council recommendation on the balanced participation of women and men in decision-making processes, progress towards these objectives has been slow, with the speed of snails and turtles rather than that of a racehorse. however, i voted against this motion for a resolution on the report of the european commission in the committee on women's rights because it contains certain exaggerated claims and demands, which are even counterproductive for women who wish to participate fully in decision-making processes. i am therefore against the mention of a 40% quota, below which measures are called for to promote the balanced representation of each sex. i believe that such measures are necessary now and in the future, regardless of the percentage of participation achieved. i am against the demand that political parties adopt quota systems and in particular the "closing" system for drawing up electoral lists. this lockdown system would be incompatible with the electoral law of my country, where it is not the party, fortunately for me, that decides where a candidate should be on the list to be elected, but the people, by priority votes. what needs to be done is to call on political parties to reform their structures and procedures, with a view to removing the direct and indirect obstacles to women's participation, on the understanding that states could, even by financial incentives, encourage parties to put on the electoral lists a high number of female candidates. finally, i think it is absurd to ask for training only for women in leadership and decision-making, when many men who already have such roles and positions would greatly need it. my group has tabled amendments to eliminate the counterproductive demands described above and i hope that these amendments will be adopted. let me make one more remark, which i must not make before the vote, on the french translation of our amendments. it is flawed in that these amendments not only become incomprehensible, but i must say, as a co-author, that if i read these amendments in french, i find myself in the situation of a cat that can no longer find its young. so the german text is the authentic one, mr president. i ask that we take note of this and take it into account when we vote.
mr president, unlike mr chichester, i have no connection with the finnish thread running through this report, except that i have worked in the commission under commissioner liikanen, and with great pleasure. mr president, i would like to thank the commission for presenting this communication on the wood industry, congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for accepting some of my amendments in the committee on industry, even though he now finds my amendment no 5 superfluous. i would like to limit myself, mr president, to one question, which relates specifically to amendment no 5 and concerns the anchoring point of the publishing sector within the commission's departments. i noted in the press that in november 2000 commissioner wallström recognised that the publishing industry should not be considered part of the wood sector, as its current position in the european commission might suggest. is that also the view of the commission? if so, what are his plans for the future?
mr president, we are currently facing a paradoxical situation in the middle east. on the one hand, some participants in the negotiation process believe that the two sides have never been closer to an agreement. this optimistic view seems to be shared by the high representative. on the other hand, one of the candidates for the elections in israel declared the peace process launched in oslo to be obsolete. the fact is that we are once again at a crossroads where the european union must send a message and a warning. i am addressing both the council and the commission. the message is that no just and lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict can be found without the application of international law as laid down in the un security council resolutions. thus, the israeli evacuation of the occupied territories, including east jerusalem, the right of return of the palestinian refugees, the right of israel to live in peace within secure and recognized borders, and the right of the palestinians to a state of their own, sovereign, viable, contiguous, open to international borders and non-militarized, are inextricably linked rights that must be fulfilled simultaneously. jerusalem, a historic city that is part of the heritage of humanity, must once again become an open city, freely accessible to all. the world community, and in particular the european union, cannot allow the fair balance thus established to be upset to the benefit or detriment of either party. in these circumstances, the warning could be as follows: the union is making a solemn appeal for an end to the violence and for negotiations to continue, but at the same time, as a trading partner and a donor, it will draw the necessary conclusions from anyone who feels entitled to abandon the path of dialogue and the search for a comprehensive and final compromise acceptable to all.
in writing. - (de) in the motion for a resolution tabled, the european parliament supports the reform of the treaty on european union to give the european court of justice the power to rule on the member states' compliance with the obligations arising from european legislation in this field. the fact that parliament does not limit itself in this decision to eu legislation but also wishes to encompass the instruments of the council of europe is not only, as things stand, a utopian idea, but it is also legally extremely difficult to implement and would constitute a dangerous precedent which, in the future, would cause a great deal of confusion and legal uncertainty. the idea of imposing sanctions on member states which do not sufficiently effectively comply with requests in the field of mutual legal assistance is in sharp contradiction with the non-binding nature of many instruments adopted under title vi of the treaty on european union. the imprudent attitude of sanctions against eu partners is a worrying development, which raises fears of a shift from a europe of the law to a europe of the law of the strongest. finally, i would like to point out to the rapporteur and all the other members that the first two points of the negligence in the explanatory statement concerning the grand duchy of luxembourg are no longer relevant since the law of 8 august last year.
- mr president, i regret to have to repeat what i said last year, namely that our union lacks a plan for the future. this is not a reproach to president prodi or the commission, since the commission is certainly working, or rather is doing, i should say. she's got almost too much going on. no one is able to follow all the green papers, all the white papers, all the communications, all the reports presented by the commission and the commissioners and, above all, to draw a common thread, a plan for the future. so my first conclusion is: let's do less by doing better. as president prodi very rightly said this morning, we must not exhaust ourselves measuring the size of cucumbers and pickles. there is an urgent need to define who does what in our union, that is to say, to define the principle of subsidiarity. and the commission, even if it has good legal grounds for doing so, cannot block the decision of a national parliament to build a motorway, the decision of a regional parliament to build a new railway line or the decision of a municipal council to build a bay: that is subsidiarity. the president of the commission felt it this morning; he asked good questions, but he's not here to ask questions. the commission has the right of initiative, it must make proposals. i do not have time to go into the debate, but i must say that if we are to build the new europe, we need not only carpenters and plumbers, but also and above all an architect: i hope, mr president of the commission, that you will be that architect. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, it is always difficult to strike a fair balance between the necessary protection of copyright and the protection of the right of everyone to know and to be informed. my friend jacques poos and i voted against virtually all the amendments tabled by the committee of our parliament and by the members, because we felt that the original common position was very balanced and very balanced. i am pleased to note that after this battle of amendments and after all the pressure from all kinds of groups, the common position has hardly changed. i think it provides a good basis for our parliament and the council to deal with this difficult problem.
in writing. - dietary supplements are a sensible solution not only to fill deficiencies and preserve health, but also to prevent aging. clearly, they must not present any health risks. i also welcome the attempts to establish a european basis in this area, given the diversity of the corresponding national provisions. but we must be careful not to draw up european legislation that is too restrictive. the experts i consulted say that there is virtually no risk in taking vitamins and minerals by mouth. we must also avoid the restrictions and administrative burdens which in europe prevent us from keeping up with scientific discoveries and sharing them with our fellow citizens. in the end, a supplement should be seen as nothing more than an improvement in diet and analyses should focus on the quality of the ingredients and the manufacture, not the content. a too restrictive list of vitamins should also be avoided. why not vitamin e and d, when there is currently a severe deficiency of vitamin d, because of the fear of sun exposure, which leads to a high risk of osteoporosis? i'm not a doctor or an expert on this subject, and i have to trust the scientists. i do not see how representatives of this parliament can claim to be involved in the choices of scientists as regards minimum and maximum doses and purity criteria, as stated in the explanatory statement. i voted for the report, but i wanted to make these remarks in the hope of making it clear to the commission and the council that in this field, as in others, there is no room for excessive zeal and for abusive and restrictive regulation.
mr president, one word on sustainable development and the lisbon process. this was already addressed by some members of the green group this morning. what should be done in the stockholm meeting is that the governments' presence there should give the commission a mandate to take the results of the gothenburg summit and to prepare benchmarking and concrete targets for the 2002 spring meeting during the spanish presidency. only if sustainable development becomes as important in benchmarking as economic and social values can we advance. i will take the opportunity to address the liberalisation aspect where there has not been a lot of reflection hitherto in europe. we need a new merger control and a new competition policy. we have abolished monopolies, but we will have the same operators appearing as oligopolies in europe if we are not prepared to have a different merger control and competition policy. we need the biodiversity of a lot of small and medium-sized actors and not a monoculture of eight or ten major electricity companies which will employ blackmail on policy-makers as they did before in the monopolistic structures.
mr president, one thing seems clear to me: we are unanimous in rejecting the odious regime of saddam hussein. the sooner he's gone, the better. but it is necessary and useful for democrats and democratic countries to discuss the means of achieving this. there have been legitimate doubts about the appropriateness, or even the legality, of the recent bombings in iraq. the united nations security council must make a clear statement on this. the security council, not any of its members, or even its permanent members, is the only legitimate authority to decide on coercive measures against a country. the effectiveness of the economic sanctions in force is also questioned. it is clear that the economic sanctions did not destabilise saddam hussein - this has just been confirmed by commissioner patten - but they did cause very serious collateral damage to the people of iraq. that is also the conclusion i draw from a recent hearing on iraq before our committee on foreign affairs. i was particularly impressed by the speech by mr vieno, director of caritas europe. he concluded, and i quote: 'in summary, from a humanitarian point of view, the sanctions are catastrophic. politically, they are ineffective. legally, they are questionable. morally, they are intolerable". i hope that this qualified representative of caritas will not be disapproved of by our epp colleagues in the european parliament and that the council of the european union will be able to draw the necessary conclusions at its level.
in writing. - i support the report on access to electronic communications networks and similar facilities and their interconnection in general because we need a directive which will promote real competition in the european telecommunications market. because i am convinced that it is absolutely necessary to avoid a situation in which specific technical aspects could slow down the creation of a genuine single market without distorting competition, particularly in the mobile telephony sector, i proposed an amendment to oblige the company receiving a request for access and/or interconnection to participate in the negotiations and to negotiate access with other companies that can offer the same kind of access and/or interconnection on the network. i am of the opinion that applications should be refused only on the basis of objective criteria and that, if access is refused, the injured party should be able to refer the matter to the national regulatory authority. i welcome the fact that this obligation to negotiate access has been retained, as has the obligation that access must be on 'commercial terms' and therefore economically viable for the newcomer. only a strict prohibition of refusal to negotiate applications can ensure the development of a genuinely competitive market capable of offering the best possible solution in terms of price and quality and of defending the interests of the european citizen in the best possible way. it is on the basis of these clarifications that i voted in favour of mr brunetta's report.
in writing. - i did not vote for the report on the consequences of globalisation on migrant women in mediterranean countries by mrs avilés perea in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, because some of the amendments adopted clearly ignore the truth of the palisse that the impossible is not required. in fact, a small majority of the committee on women's rights has again managed to overload the boat in a grotesque way, which distorts the primary objective of this report, whose position i share on the essentials, namely to incorporate the gender dimension, mainstreaming, into the euro-mediterranean policy of the union, with particular emphasis on globalisation and its consequences in relation to women's migration. i do not see what all the claims about the construction of a so-called 'euro-mediterranean citizenship' have to do with this report. we know the citizenship of our member states and the citizenship of the union. unless we are unaware of the true meaning and legal significance of the term 'citizenship', i cannot understand how it is possible to go so far as to invent a euro-mediterranean citizenship, which would result in the citizens of the member states having a third citizenship, one more than those enjoyed by the citizens of the non-mediterranean member states. so why not claim a euro-baltic or euro-nordic citizenship, and i'll pass? what about the non-european states of the southern mediterranean, which have neither the desire nor the vocation to join the european union? some statements and claims about immigration policy are equally absurd, even superfluous, because they break open doors by ignoring the facts. others mix up the euro-mediterranean policy with the policy of cooperation with the acp countries, which is another pair of sleeves. i also think that the general denunciation of employers, accused as a whole of abusing migrant women, is unacceptable. i am of the opinion that neither the happiness nor the quality of life of women around the mediterranean is linked to the fact that an increasing proportion of them are migrants and that migration to the member states of the european union is promoted as an objective by increasingly lax regulations on visas and the treatment of illegal immigrants. to say that there is a link between responsible immigration regulation and human trafficking is as absurd to me as the demand to set quotas for migration flows to europe. our policy should instead be to keep migration flows within reasonable limits, and acceptable also to the citizens of the member states of the union, by pursuing a policy of development aid and partnership which allows both women and men to remain in their country of origin and to enjoy there a standard of living, social protection and equal rights and opportunities comparable to those which we should be enjoying at home. and let us not forget in this context that there are countries around the mediterranean which are not members of the union and will never be, whose natural resources are far more important than ours, but whose dictatorial and corrupt regimes deprive their populations and especially women of the most basic human, social and economic rights. it is by bringing them, in a well-understood partnership, to change their internal policy, and not to push their citizens to emigrate, that we render the greatest service, especially to women and children who are the first victims of certain cultures and religions, which, under the hypocritical pretext of protection, deprive them of the most basic human rights.
- madam president, regarding the minutes, i am not on the list of those present on 1 march 2001. i probably forgot to sign the registers, but i was there, i voted in every vote.
mr president, if we are going to create new authorities, then these authorities should be able to work efficiently. in the eu, the institutions are located in different places or can be relocated. it is therefore sensible to locate new institutions where they are also geographically close to the other eu institutions with which they will have to work closely in the future. in this respect, i believe that the european public prosecutor's office will certainly cooperate a lot with the european court of justice, but should also maintain close contacts with the european court of auditors. the same applies to olaf, which will probably also have to work closely with both the european court of justice and the european court of auditors. i therefore think that these authorities should be located in luxembourg, in whole or in part, to ensure that geographical proximity and the efficiency of the authorities are maintained.
the council. president. - the debate is closed. we have just been discussing the future of europe. it is indeed a new europe, a new union, that is being formed. the biggest change is, of course, enlargement. the eu is now paving the way for europe's historic reunification. we have also just started the debate on the future, and we are asking ourselves what kind of europe we want. but now we shall discuss the third major process of change, namely the modernisation of the european model, in which the european council meeting in stockholm on 23 and 24 march will play a central role. it is about full employment in the eu. it's about quality of work and lifelong learning. it is about social and economic reform. the union made a historic breakthrough in tackling these issues last year in lisbon. they are central to citizens and thus also to the political legitimacy of the union. there are still 14 million people in europe without jobs - a gigantic waste of economic resources and a contempt for human knowledge and ambition. having a job and earning a living gives a sense of belonging, security and dignity, while unemployment breeds insecurity, exclusion and xenophobia. the path to full employment and increased competitiveness is through economic and social reforms such as increased education and lifelong learning, increased gender equality and modernised social security, enhanced welfare and quality of work. it requires open and functioning markets, sound macroeconomic policies and a business climate that facilitates investment and business creation, not least in emerging areas such as it and biotechnology. we need a balance between social and economic reforms. all these areas are interdependent if the union is to achieve its ambitious goals by 2010: to create the world's leading knowledge-based economy, to create 20 million new jobs, and to combine competitiveness with greater social cohesion. the stockholm european council is the first in a series of summits this spring, which will openly and self-critically assess progress made and take new steps. the work is being carried out both under community law and under the new open method of coordination. it is important to focus our actions within the framework of the lisbon process, as many in parliament have stressed. we must not undermine this process by adding too many new questions. we do not need new processes, but we should instead identify certain priority areas. in stockholm, firstly, we want to further strengthen the ambitious employment targets, which are set at 70% of the total workforce and 60% for women by 2010. we should consider setting targets for 2005 and adding specific targets for the employment of the elderly, a group with enormous potential only 38% of the 55-64 age group are currently working. as we humans live longer and healthier lives, many older people feel unwelcome in the labour market - a somewhat absurd situation. we want to set a number of important social objectives for gender equality, diversity and participation in the workplace. 'good work' the development of quality in working life is both a matter of welfare and the best way to harness the capacities of employees. we want to reaffirm the central role of lifelong learning, both for individual development and for europe's competitiveness, and invite the commission to set targets for lifelong learning as well. secondly, we expect important steps to be taken in stockholm to modernise europe's economy. we want to push forward the reform of financial markets and achieve a single market for financial services by 2005 and for venture capital by 2003. this requires, as baron lamfalussy points out in his report, a more efficient decisionmaking process. we hope that agreement on this can be reached at the summit. we also need to continue to work on opening up the markets for electricity, gas and mail, and for rail and air transport. opening up product and capital markets is not an end in itself. we do this not only because it means growth and more jobs, but also because it is good for consumers. this means lower prices, a wider choice and better quality of services and goods. in this context, external trade policy is also important a free and fair world trade is in the interest of european consumers. thirdly, in stockholm we have to face up to the demographic development of europe. low birth rates and a rising proportion of older people threaten to increase the support burden for people of working age significantly from around 2010 onwards. we therefore need a comprehensive review of pension systems and a discussion on the design of childcare and perhaps also of health and elderly care. social security systems must make it easier for people to reconcile work and family life. we need measures to increase labour market participation, gender equality and lifelong learning also to meet the demographic challenges. fourthly, in stockholm we should facilitate new technologies in order to create growth and improve for citizens. we want to develop the possibilities of using biotechnology to create better medicines, taking into account, of course, its moral and ethical dimensions. we want to develop eeurope further and to bridge the digital divide so that it is accessible to all. i would like to make it clear that the commission is responsible for the website. so you can turn to them with your views. fifthly, in stockholm we must include the ecological perspective that was missing from the lisbon strategy and build a bridge to the gothenburg summit. we want environmentally friendly technology to be seen as an important factor for growth and employment and we stress the importance of efficient use of resources. in all these areas, the councils of ministers are now examining how the candidate countries can be involved in the process. i would also like to stress the importance of the successful development of economic and monetary union. as the presidency, sweden will actively promote the successful introduction of euro banknotes and coins into the monetary union in early 2002. it's in our mutual interest. i would also like to mention that president putin of russia will be visiting stockholm on the sidelines of the summit on 23 march for an informal working lunch with the eu heads of state or government. we anticipate that the discussion with mr putin will be mainly about economic and social issues. as usual, the european council will also discuss current foreign policy issues, such as the middle east, the western balkans and the korean peninsula. madam president, i would like to thank you. employment and welfare are the most important issues for citizens. if we fail, we risk not only rising unemployment, xenophobia and deepening social divisions, but also a crisis of confidence in the union. the lisbon process is therefore a prerequisite not only for sustainable growth, full employment and social cohesion in europe but also for the credibility of european cooperation. the european parliament has always been a driving force on all these issues and, by combining its popular support with its responsibility at european level, it also has a central role to play in the work that is to be carried out. i look forward to your comments!
president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all congratulate the presidency on the excellent work it has done in preparing for the stockholm summit next week. the presidency has also organized, as has just been announced, a meeting between the european union authorities and president putin, similar to the meeting with president bush scheduled for gothenburg in june. this will provide us with a good opportunity to review the main aspects of our partnership with russia and then with the united states. in particular, i hope that we will be able to take stock of the progress of the russian economic reform programme, of the improvements in investment conditions which are essential for the success of our energy dialogue, and of all the problems, including those concerning citizens' rights, which are very serious problems which we will discuss. the second point i would like to make today is the commission's 'spring report'. exactly one year ago, i stood before this house to explain the commission's contribution to the lisbon summit. in lisbon, the commission proposed a detailed strategy to make europe dynamic and competitive by promoting solidarity and social inclusion: the commission has also proposed a strategy to ensure that economic and social progress in europe go hand in hand. the outcome of that summit was very positive: the member states adopted almost all the commission's proposals unanimously. the lisbon strategy is characterised by two aspects: first, it is integrated; far from being in opposition, social and economic programmes are mutually supportive. secondly, it assigns specific tasks to the various actors to be carried out within precise deadlines. the responsibility and the objectives to be achieved are therefore clear and we are able to quantify our progress clearly. the lisbon strategy is designed to cover a period of 10 years, but progress must be assessed each year at the spring european council. to enable this assessment to be made, the commission prepares an annual report on progress made, which is called the synthesis report - one of the strange names we always use - and which i shall present to this house every year at this time. it will become the main instrument of economic and social policy coordination available to the commission. if the european council in gothenburg gives its consent, we will add an environmental dimension, giving europe a comprehensive strategy also for sustainable development. the summary report will outline the successes they have achieved since lisbon, but will also identify areas where action needs to be taken more rapidly and decisively. among the initial successes of which i am particularly proud this year are the adoption of the social agenda in nice, the adoption of a strategy against social exclusion, and the progress made in the fight against discrimination and for equal opportunities. these achievements are a source of satisfaction and this year's report therefore mentions them, albeit only in passing, because we have to highlight the areas where things are not going well. this year we will highlight ten areas where progress is not satisfactory, where new or greater momentum is needed. in some of these cases this depends on the resistance of certain member states - it is worth saying - which are not convinced of the urgency or lack the political will, or both. we therefore make very specific recommendations in our report, which i will urge the member states to follow with all my strength in stockholm. these are commitments which these states have made and therefore european decision-makers must respect the commitments they have made, for example those concerning the community patent and the galileo programme. let me say a few words about these two points which i consider particularly important. the community patent: there is an urgent need for a single patent, legally valid throughout the union, with a single jurisdiction, to reduce costs for businesses, to promote innovation and to ensure a precise framework for dispute settlement. the industrial world and the scientific community are calling for this, since it can make a decisive contribution to competitiveness and employment, especially in the new sectors we need most. in their recommendations, the lisbon and feira european councils called for the community patent to be available by the end of 2001. i repeat: the european council in lisbon and the european council in feira have asked for this. the commission put forward its proposal last autumn, but the failure to reach agreement in the council - as happened again this week in the 'internal market' council - can only alarm us. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the member states must show consistency and a sense of responsibility if this process is to be successful. the second is the galileo programme. the war in kosovo has demonstrated all too clearly europe's total dependence on the american gps satellite navigation system. if for military reasons this system is disconnected, european companies are forced to suspend many of their activities. i could give several other examples. the galileo project now offers an alternative that would make europe self-sufficient in satellite navigation signals for all civil, military and scientific uses. this is not an opportunity, but a necessity. it would take a modest injection of public funds to start a massive influx of private investment, although - i admit - we have not done as much about this private sector involvement as some governments have asked and are asking for, and as we have promised to do. this project, which i see has become almost a no-go for many countries, is capable of generating over 100,000 high-level scientific jobs. i therefore urge this house, as well as the council, to reach agreement as soon as possible on the next stage of development of this important project, and the commission, for its part, will demonstrate the necessary flexibility with regard to the involvement of private capital. ladies and gentlemen, i shall now turn to one of the ten priority areas we have identified. i don't want to make, like, a christmas tree: let's look at just one of these points, the last one: effective social protection for an ageing population. i chose this topic because it is particularly close to my heart and because it has a huge dimension; because it has profound implications for all our policies and because it takes us from stockholm to gothenburg, which means sustainable development. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the lisbon programme is part of a major challenge: the ageing of our population. europeans, fortunately, live longer, but they also have fewer children and work less. currently, there are four people of working age in the european union for every person aged 65 or over. in 20 years there will be three and in 40 years there will be two. these are the data that exist, since the unborn cannot be born again: these are the demographics already in progress. this is true for almost all the candidate countries, not just the member states. in other words, a shrinking workforce will have to support a rapidly growing number of non-workers even in the enlarged union. these are bare statistics that we have to take into account. we want europe to remain a fair and supportive society, which is our aim. do we want our children and grandchildren to enjoy the same level of social security that we now take for granted? so we need to modernize our welfare and our pension systems and make them sustainable, that is, sustainable over time. we need a strategy to strengthen europe's long-term competitiveness, without sacrificing the social inclusion that is characteristic of our societies. i want europe to be not only the most competitive region in the world but also the one with the highest level of social inclusion. the post-war period brought unprecedented prosperity to all the states of european society. today, our societies are on average the richest in history. at the same time, well-developed welfare and pension systems have distributed our wealth in such a way as to ensure even a modicum of social justice: not the one we wanted, but still a little bit of social justice. but these systems have been built on the criterion of expanding or, at least, stable populations. now that the working population is shrinking, we risk a possible structural crisis in the distribution of wealth: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social protection of workers is not undermined by the crisis, which could seriously undermine the competitiveness of the european union and the functioning of economic and monetary union within a few decades, as well as our social model, since our aim is to maintain a serious social protection model. we therefore need to act now, develop a long-term policy mix and start thinking very deeply about what kind of social justice and intergenerational equity we want and what are our policy criteria for achieving it. social protection systems are of course a matter for national competence. i repeat: it is primarily the member states, not the european institutions, which have to work out the necessary reforms. however, there are key areas where we need to develop appropriate strategies: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we must reflect on these issues here, albeit within the autonomy of national governments, in order to implement them. first, there is intergenerational equity. the ageing of our societies imposes a heavy additional financial burden on some generations. without corrective measures, today's young people will have to pay not only their parents' and grandparents' old-age pensions but also their own, because when they retire the system will be useless. if we do not introduce adjustments to take full account of the demographic factor, part of the current adult generation will fall into poverty. secondly, the distribution of work. not everyone of working age actually works. apart from the difficulties preventing young people from entering the labour market early enough, there is a trend towards early retirement, which shortens people's working lives by ten or more years. this only exacerbates the long-term pressure on pension systems. moreover, from about 2007, our workforce may not be sufficient to meet our economic needs. the union will have to solve a labour shortage problem. in the future, therefore, all generations will have to work longer: we must keep the elderly economically active, if only part-time. we need to make sure that they have the skills they need for the kinds of jobs that might be new to them. we will therefore urge the member states - and it is our duty to urge them - to invest much more in education and training for all, young and old. lifelong learning is essential to keep people's skills up to date and to enable them to adapt to change. this policy should help to reduce labour shortages, improve intergenerational equity and give citizens a more satisfactory retirement. thirdly: family and social policy. there are far too few women in the workforce: the employment rate of women is just over 70 percent of that of men. in its report for the stockholm summit, the commission calls on the member states to increase the opportunities for women to enter or re-enter the labour market. of course, women must be given the same opportunities, the same conditions, the same pension schemes as men. we must also make it easier for both sexes to reconcile family and work life, especially if we are to encourage families to have children. in short, we must take better care of our increasingly scarce human resources. finally, fourthly, immigration. another way to increase the size of our workforce is to bring young people with the right skills into the european union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the basis of this policy must be the common assessment of economic and demographic developments within the union, as already requested by the tampere european council. the commission published a communication on this last november, which i hope this house and the council will examine swiftly. madam president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i have just said that pensions and social protection systems are essentially national and that it is up to the member states to make the reforms. nevertheless, the european union has a responsibility in this area, and the commission in particular. in conclusion, let me explain the commission's approach to the problems of ageing. one of the great successes of lisbon was that the member states agreed for the first time to coordinate their welfare reform efforts, sharing their experiences and best practices. this process needs to be strengthened. they also mandated the social protection group to study the sustainability of social protection and, in particular, pension systems on the basis of a commission communication. welfare reform is therefore on the lisbon agenda, and the commission is fulfilling the task assigned to it. it will thus clarify the real dimensions of the demographic problem and make it comprehensible to european public opinion. firstly, our public accounting systems do not at present reflect the real situation. we need to develop indicators that show the long-term impact of our tax and social spending decisions, particularly with regard to pensions. secondly, we must ensure that the single market fully exerts its effects on pensions. unlike insurance, pension funds are not currently covered by a legal framework at eu level. the commission is fully committed to ensuring that the single market has its full effect. we have already tabled a proposal for a directive, on which i hope the council will act quickly. this directive is part of our action plan for financial services, which the european council has agreed should be implemented within five years. i therefore call on this house and the council to speed up work on this plan. a properly regulated pan-european market for pension funds will increase the mobility of workers and pensioners and give them more favourable treatment. today, pension schemes are unnecessarily expensive and this is a waste we cannot afford. the pension schemes must therefore be made fully transferable across the european union. in stockholm, member states will have to remove the tax barriers that hinder the crossborder payment of pension contributions and the crossborder management of pension funds. this is not a fiscal revolution, it is a common sense adjustment to which the citizens are absolutely entitled. coordination between national tax systems on these points is essential and the commission will present its proposals in this respect. thirdly, it is essential to address the consequences of ageing on public finances. the effects of ageing on our social systems must reinforce our commitment to reducing public debt. the interest saved must be used to support pensions and health. it is a matter of social justice, and the commission's summary report will call on the member states to pursue the reforms they have started in this direction. citizens need time to prepare for old age: we must act now to prevent public opinion from losing faith in social protection systems. fourthly, we must incorporate the long-term sustainability of public finances into economic and monetary union. the current near-balance-sheet rule, contained in the stability and growth pact for economic and monetary union, has done a great service to the cause of pension security. we have to admit this and be proud of it, but the long-term sustainability of public finances is not one of the requirements of the stability and growth pact. let us say, for example, that a given member state has balanced budgets at present but its spending programmes lead to increasing deficits and indebtedness ten years from now. in such a situation the european union can do nothing to change the course of that country, because the european union does not have the necessary instruments, nor does it have the instruments to influence the quality of the adjustments made. yet the chances of long-term success in that country depend crucially on the ability to make the necessary adjustments today. this was less important in the introduction phase of monetary union, where action was needed in the short and medium term, but the ageing of the european population makes long-term intervention in public finances essential. what we need, then, is a renewed commitment to keeping our public finances balanced to make social protection sustainable in the long term. indeed, sound financial systems are an integral part of the strategy for sustainable development in europe. the commission will be proposing a project of this kind, which will be the main theme of the gothenburg summit in june. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject i have decided to tackle today in this house is a difficult and technical one, but it is a crucial one for the prosperity of future generations in europe. there is no single model of social inclusion in europe, and there never will be. each member state will make its own choice which will reflect its traditions, its culture and the will of its people. however, we must develop a general framework, and this can only be done at the level of the european union. this house, of course, is the european institution in which democratic debates on the fundamental issues of the future of our fellow citizens must take place. the commission is therefore prepared to play its part with you, ladies and gentlemen, to the end. (applause) i would like to thank
- you reassure me, mr. president, because with that noise, i thought our flying saucer was taking off. (laughter) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the generally illegible resolutions which our parliament is accustomed to adopting, let me put forward a few simple ideas. first, a note of caution. our union is not doing too badly. of course, unemployment is still too high, but 2.5 million jobs have been created. in 2000, we had satisfactory economic growth and europe became the growth hub for the world economy. inflation is lower in europe than in the united states; public deficits were reduced; wage increases were in line with productivity gains; the internal market, the forthcoming launch of the euro will protect us more against external shocks. the economic slowdown in the united states will affect us less than usual, since trade between the fifteen accounts for nine-tenths of our common domestic product. of course, europe is running short, particularly in the field of new technologies, with the phenomenon being less marked for information technologies than for biotechnologies. in 2000, european investment in the information and communication technology sector was higher than in the united states, although some countries still lag behind. the union, the world's largest exporter, accounted for 1/5 of its exports in the high-tech sector in 2000. not everything is perfect in europe, of course. we are not investing enough in lifelong learning, there is a deficit in investment in research, our public spending is on par with that of the united states, and the private sector needs to make an extra effort. we can do better in many areas. stockholm must provide the necessary impetus, particularly in the fields of employment and social affairs, as mrs lindh has just stressed. by making the right choices in stockholm, we will be able to start a virtuous circle which will also benefit our partners in the rest of the world. the right choices are not unbridled liberalization, deregulation without regard for our social model, for our environmental framework. structural reforms are still to be made, corporate and protectionist reflexes are to be overcome, but it will not be by breaking a universal public service that we will get better service and lower prices for consumers. deregulation does not mean no regulations. deregulation always leads to new rules. these rules are not necessarily consumer-friendly, as california electricity consumers have just learned. the liberalisation of the telecommunications sector has had positive results mainly because it has taken place at the same time as the technological revolution with mobile phones and the internet. the new economy is not without its problems. any new technology is just a tool. even adding an e to the usual economic terms does not eliminate the old rules of supply and demand, of necessary profitability. the world stock markets are currently paying a heavy price for compliance with basic economic rules. the end of irrational exuberance in financial markets paradoxically offers us the chance to look at the real economy, to influence the fundamental factors of the well-being of our fellow citizens. mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that investing in people, in education, in information, in research, in infrastructure for the quality of life must be the priority of stockholm, as president prodi has just said.
in writing. - while agreeing with the proposals in the resolution on the protection of financial interests, we abstained on the paragraphs concerning the appointment of a european prosecutor. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office was not decided upon at the nice european council and is therefore not included in the new treaty. however, to establish a new authority with judicial competence and to give it the necessary authority in all the member states, an unquestionable legal basis would have to be created. as long as this basis does not exist, it is not desirable for the european parliament to call on the commission to make a proposal to this effect in a binding manner. this also applies where the powers of the prosecutor are limited to offences committed by members and servants of the institutions of the european union.
- mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr von wogau and mr chris huhne, who together with your servant made it possible for the committee on economic and monetary affairs to adopt a resolution unanimously. this unanimity in our committee is worthy of note. this is a rare occurrence and should prompt the commission and the council to consider the arguments put forward by the european parliament. i would also like to thank mr alexandre lamfalussy, who has done a patient and intelligent job in chairing the committee of wise men. it has listened to the european parliament and the vast majority of its proposals are sensible, useful and even necessary to achieve proper regulation of the european securities markets and the creation of a genuine market in this field. nevertheless, mr lamfalussy's report has received a mixed reception in both the ecofin council and the european parliament, as some of its proposals threaten the interinstitutional balance, mrs randzio-plath has spoken about it, and i shall not go into it again. i was aware of the need to legislate more quickly, particularly in the interests of the development of european financial markets. the problem lies mainly with this committee on securities, which would adopt the commission's proposals, according to the council's voting rules. we are told that these are only decisions on technical matters, and mr danielsson reminded us of the difference between the council of ministers and a regulatory committee. but why mobilize secretaries of state for so-called technical rules? in addition, these state secretaries must vote in accordance with the council's rules. who can explain to me to what extent the secretaries of state, working under the direction of their respective ministers, will be able to legislate faster than the ecofin council? all of this doesn't make much sense, and i believe that if we really want to work faster, we can do it. mr von wogau has given some hints, which i will not repeat. parliament wants a right of recall. it exists in many countries, including the united states. it is a safeguard clause in the interests of the markets themselves, and i am sure that if this safeguard clause, this right of recall, existed, parliament would probably not use it very often. in any case, this is a guarantee against undemocratic deviations from a committee which meets behind closed doors and takes decisions without parliament being able to intervene.
in writing. - and a month ago the committee of wise men, chaired by baron lamfalussy, presented its final report on the regulation of european securities markets. in addition to the many benefits that an integrated internal market for securities would bring, the report also contains a proposal for reform of the legislative procedure in this area which i consider to be a major step in the right direction. the current legislative process is far too long and rigid to adapt to constantly changing markets. we cannot keep up with market developments and at the same time set ourselves the ambitious lisbon targets of becoming the world's largest and most dynamic economic area within 10 years. i agree with the main lines of the lamfalussy report, but i do support the recall mechanism proposed in the resolution, which allows parliament, in the event of a negative decision by it or the council, to ask the commission to withdraw the proposals submitted to the securities committee on implementing measures. the commission should respond to this invitation and, under the co-decision procedure, submit a legislative proposal. the most important point, however, is that in the whole debate on the distribution of powers between the council and parliament, the objective of an integrated european securities market should not be lost sight of. we had set 2005 as the deadline for the integration of the internal market for financial services. time passes and markets and competitive economies do not sleep.
in writing. - i have approved the resolution on the state of the european economy, which was tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs in a report which we produced in the context of the commission's recommendation for broad guidelines for economic policies. this resolution contains a number of sensible statements, which i would like to stress here, especially because they have not always been made as clearly. it is surprising, however, that meps from all groups say that current demographic trends require appropriate reforms to ensure the efficiency and safety of social security systems and that older workers should be encouraged to remain in voluntary employment for longer. i would also like to emphasize that it is welcome that this parliament is of the opinion that the economic and monetary policy of the european union, but also that of the member states, should follow the broad guidelines of the social market economy, a system whose essential components are freedom and democracy, competition, price stability, sustainable growth, subsidiarity, solidarity and private property. it is also worth recalling, in view of the worrying upward price trends in some member states, that all necessary measures will have to be taken to keep inflation rates below 2% in the second half of 2001. i am particularly pleased that my proposal for a balanced, not hasty, liberalisation of the telecommunications, postal, energy and railway sectors has been accepted. the need for greater labour market flexibility, a labour market that has to have the best trained and educated human capital to meet the demands of the international knowledge-based economy, which requires significant investment in training and new technologies, is particularly important if we are to achieve the ambitious goal of becoming the driving force of the world economy in this decade, as the us economy was in the 1990s. i would like to express my satisfaction and hope that not only the commission but also the governments of our member states will follow this good advice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to conclude this debate by referring to a detail of the 1999 budget which also covers the years 2000 and 2001. it's called the synergy project. this energy programme was stopped in december 1999 by the new director-general of the dg transport and energy. there is a difference about the minimum height of this program. the director-general wants to approve programmes only above eur 400 000, while the council's energy section has set the limit at eur 200 000. this dispute has blocked the implementation of the synergy project for the past year and a half. the whole thing is now becoming grotesque, because there has not been any agreement even at the level of the permanent representatives and the subject has even been put on the agenda of the foreign ministers on 9 april. we are even at risk of losing the money from 2001, and then it would be the case that we have not implemented two thirds of an energy budget. we in this parliament should call on the commission to question the unusually obstinate attitude of the new director-general, mr lamoureux, and to reach an amicable agreement.
in writing. (de) unfortunately, the council of ministers has presented us with a text which is causing a further delay in the new version of the 1991 directive. we were already hoping to adopt this new version at first reading. we are now likely to have to deal with a conciliation procedure, because we simply cannot accept the attitude of the finance ministers, which is also not approved by the ministers of the interior and justice, and which is the opposite of reality and practice. however, we cannot apply the existing money laundering rules to all other professional groups, such as lawyers and tax advisers, in a compulsory and blanket manner, nor can we imply that we are only supporting the lawyers group. that is not the case at all. it is absurd that, for example, lawyers can only act in the context of the settlement of an insurance dispute or that a broker can only intervene in the preparation of a statement after personal verification of identities. it is also inappropriate to require that cash transfers can only be made from person to person. such a requirement would mean that night boxes would be abolished immediately. however, this would cause problems for businessmen and women, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, who, after the closure of banks, deposit their daily income in the safe deposit box of their bank, for obvious security reasons. however, this has nothing to do with money laundering of criminal origin. i agree with the intelligent view of our rapporteur, with which the finance ministers should also be able to agree. they should know that any further delay in the new version of the money laundering directive is irresponsible, especially as the money laundering mafia is becoming more and more efficient. the effectiveness of the fight against money laundering of criminal origin is very important to me as a luxembourg mep, given that the grand duchy has one of the strictest anti-money laundering legislation. that legislation and its application, as well as the cooperation resulting from the 1991 directive, cannot be rendered null and void by an overly broad definition of 'criminal activity' as provided for in the council's common position. for reasons of efficiency, the directive should, as its original purpose prescribes, be limited essentially to the fight against money laundering stemming from organised crime.
in writing. - while we share the objective of transparency and while we acknowledge the good intentions of our rapporteur, we did not vote in favour of the amendments to the text proposed by the commission. the best is the enemy of the good. the amendments open up too wide a scope and remove all the elements of flexibility contained in the commission's proposals. moreover, they make the new regulation retroactive, which we believe is contrary to the basic principles of the law. in the end, strict application of the amended text would result in an increase in bureaucracy (classification of documents, registers, appeal procedures) and the need to recruit new officials. the democratic character of the institutions will be no better guaranteed than with the original proposals of the commission, which we consider reasonable and fully sufficient. article 255 of the treaty does not require more.
in writing. - (de) smokers are certainly more at risk of lung cancer than non-smokers. this is a well-known fact, and every smoker knows it. the fight against cancer is also one of the important missions of our society. i myself am actively involved, particularly here in parliament, in the fight against breast cancer. however, as i have already pointed out in my opinion on the report at first and second reading, the restrictive provisions contained in the joint text impose unacceptable obligations on the european tobacco industry, regardless of the associated job losses and the resulting increase in the number of non-smokers. the proposal to impose the same tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide levels on eu manufacturers for cigarettes intended for export to third countries is downright perverse. the desire to feel responsible for the health of smokers in third countries is certainly commendable. but when this sense of responsibility leads the tobacco industry to shift production to third countries for export, it only results in job losses. for the grand duchy of luxembourg alone, such a measure would involve a transfer of 12% of cigarette production. this is unacceptable. in the fight against lung cancer, i am in favour of an information campaign with the necessary financial resources and aimed in particular at young people to make them aware of the health dangers of smoking. but i am against all the excesses in the joint text and therefore cannot approve the report in its present form.
in writing. - the european parliament discussed in strasbourg a report by its committee on the environment on waste electrical and electronic equipment. the proposed directive provides that the responsible party for electrical and electronic waste, which amounts to some 16 kg per capita in the 15 member states of the european union, a quantity which is expected to double in the next 12 years, is either the producer or the first importer. because of the specific nature of its situation, luxembourg has almost no producers of its own, but mainly importers. the distribution of products is often organised in such a way that a general importer is responsible for the belgium-luxembourg region. this importer is generally located in belgium and not in luxembourg. if belgium has to hold one general importer responsible, luxembourg will have to hold a multitude of shops to which this general importer delivers its products responsible. in addition, parallel imports of products outside established distribution channels are much higher in luxembourg than in other countries. it follows that in luxembourg, the responsible trading enterprises are generally small and in any case smaller than abroad. this specificity of luxembourg means that particular attention must be paid to the administrative simplification of the management of the recycling and recovery financing systems to be implemented. in some areas, therefore, it is preferable that the directive leaves sufficient freedom to member states to implement appropriate solutions. commercial premises, especially in urban areas, often lack storage facilities for large quantities of waste. the takeover by trade must therefore not become compulsory but must remain voluntary. if the trade cannot take back the waste, other systems, such as recycling parks, must be available to consumers. the compulsory take-back charges would be excessive for many businesses. the directive also covers the financing of electrical and electronic products which are already on the market at the time of its entry into force and for some of which the producers no longer exist. some appliances, such as refrigerators and televisions, have an average life span of 20 years. the directive should leave it to the member states to choose the means to be used to finance the recycling of these appliances. it would be possible to agree with the state to take action to encourage consumers, for example, to give away free of charge the waste currently in their attic. this type of action has been carried out in countries which already have a free take-back system. (intervention reduced pursuant to article 137 (1) of the regulation)
- mr president, like everyone else, i am concerned about the abuse of alcohol by young people and the change in culture which has led young people, particularly in some countries, to believe that they have to get drunk to death on the weekend to be 'cool'. i therefore accept the commission's initiative. unfortunately, our committees, which have drawn up together some 50 amendments, have again sinned out of zeal. instead of fighting a bad alcoholism, they would succeed, if their ideas were to harm, among other things, an entire sector, namely the wine sector. a distinction should be made between the moderate and responsible consumption of alcoholic beverages - especially wine, which is part of our culture - and the abuse of alcohol and the use of drugs. you don't fight alcoholism by asking to limit supply. do you want, for example, to ban the production of wine, beer, spirits and to what extent? most of our countries prohibit the sale of alcohol to minors and they should strictly enforce this legislation. but why would you want to ban the sale of alcoholic beverages at competitions and such ? the evin law in france, which is incompatible with the single market, prohibits all advertising of alcoholic beverages at sporting events, but not the sale. we have also had some homeric discussions on the labelling of alcoholic beverages. so far we have not been able to agree on a directive. it is not through a recommendation on the consumption of alcohol by young people that we can be circumvented by offering health warnings on every bottle of wine, for example, despite the fact that experience has shown the total ineffectiveness of such warnings in the united states. there is also legislation on wine labelling, which prohibits, among other things, raising awareness of the benefits of moderate wine consumption, whereas it is scientifically proven that drinking a few glasses a day is an excellent means of preventing cancer, vascular diseases and alzheimer's disease in particular. i shall vote against the amendments which propose measures which have nothing to do with the fight against alcoholism among young people and which completely ignore the principle of subsidiarity.
- madam president, with nearly 500 dead since the resumption of hostilities in the occupied territories, the material situation of the palestinian people is worse than before the oslo agreements. unemployment is at 50 per cent, investments in peace are lost, the population is locked up, that is, under house arrest in its towns and villages, the hope of an entire generation has been dashed. in the face of this catastrophic situation, the european union must raise its voice in favour of respect for the law; i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but we should be able to do it. we must end the illegal occupation, return the territories acquired by force, stop the colonization of the west bank, gaza, east jerusalem and the golan heights, and recognize the right of the palestinian people to self-determination. (applause) i would like to thank to stop the escalation of violence, to solve the problem once and for all, to achieve the just and lasting solution that everyone is yearning for, should we not start by respecting the un resolutions? the pope said no different in his speech in damascus and i hope that this time the epp will not repudiate him. (applause) i would like to thank in any case, it is to be welcomed that recital d and paragraph 13 of the joint motion for a resolution recall this fundamental point. israel, like every other country, has the right to live in peace within secure and recognized borders. but israel, like every other country, must recognize its international borders. but that is not the case. in a recent interview, mr sharon explained his strategic thinking by stating that the war of independence is not over, and i quote: "as long as it does not allow us to possess the entire territory of israel". the whole of israel? what territory ? the international community has allowed this to happen. last saturday, israeli shells fell again on a palestinian refugee camp. on sunday, the army shot dead five palestinian police officers as suspects. and the show goes on! madam president-in-office, commissioner, now is the time to say loud and clear: 'enough is enough!' that's enough, mr sharon. (applause from the left)
in writing. - while i fully share the objectives and measures proposed in this legislative proposal to restrict alcohol consumption by adolescents and young people, i cannot support the rapporteur's proposals which directly or indirectly equate alcohol, tobacco and drugs, or proposals which are repressive in nature. the fight against underage alcoholism must be based on education in healthy living, information, persuasion and the active cooperation of producers and sellers of alcoholic products. the commission's original text was more suited to this objective than a number of amendments which were eventually adopted. for these reasons, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - (de) i am very grateful to the european parliament for including in its resolution on guaranteed pensions for the future a series of reflections and demands which concern women in particular and for which i have been working for many years here and in luxembourg. the discussions since 1975 on equal treatment for men and women in social security have shown how important and useful the european union's support for its policy on equal treatment and equal opportunities for men and women is in putting an end to discrimination against women in old-age insurance. i hope that our proposals will be taken seriously by governments faced with the challenge of guaranteeing pensions for all that respect the standard of living and that they will also lead to european collaboration on pension issues. increasing the proportion of women in the workforce who are housewives is one of the objectives of the lisbon process. if we complain about the low level of female employment, including in my country, many forget that there are also millions of invisible workers in the 15 countries of the european union, namely caring spouses in family businesses, who do not appear in the statistics of the working population. we have been calling for a framework regulation for caring spouses in family businesses for many years, in particular with a view to ensuring that they are compulsorily affiliated to the pension system. i would like to stress once again our demand that the rights of women to a widow's pension be guaranteed, particularly for generations of women who had no access to employment and who worked exclusively in the family environment. i also believe, of course, that more and more women should establish their own individual pension rights. this requires, however, that spouses who opt for a temporary or permanent interruption of their occupational activity because of the care of family members (children and elderly people in need of care) have their pension rights guaranteed continuously, also for the years of birth and education, by the right to maintain the payment of insurance contributions.
- mr president, despite my limited speaking time, i should like to pay tribute to our two rapporteurs. they have risen to the challenge of rallying a large majority of members to a project that at first seemed indefensible. nice was indeed the summit of national interests, not to say national egos. no major european project, no breath of enthusiasm could emerge from an agenda that was limited to the amsterdam outliers. the post-nice process now offers us an opportunity to reaffirm the primacy of politics. before we start any more institutional tinkering, let us define clearly why we want more europe, to defend and consolidate our fundamental values and our social model, to give the european union more weight, sometimes counterweight, in international politics, to state clearly and loudly that internal and external solidarity must prevail over the prevailing selfishness. we do not need new institutions. let us strengthen the existing institutional triangle. first of all, let us look for a way of involving citizens more closely in the preparation of the union's future. the new convention method called for by our two rapporteurs gives us the opportunity to do so. a new breath, a new bottom-line from the grassroots must refresh the old method of intergovernmental negotiation. to open this new cycle of european construction, let us unleash our imagination, let us begin by saying 'yes' to the convention.
the council. - mr. speaker, i have to go. parliament called on the council to report on the visit to the korean peninsula by prime minister göran persson, in his capacity as president of the european union, on 2 and 4 may. in pyongyang, talks were held with the north korean leader, chairman kim jong il, and the number two in the north korean power hierarchy, kim jong nam, and in seoul with president kim dae-jung. the high representative javier solana and commissioner chris patten attended the meeting. the initiative for the trip was taken last december when president kim dae-jung visited stockholm, in connection with the receipt of the nobel peace prize in oslo, for talks with prime minister persson. president kim dae-jung stressed that sweden's long-term contacts with the countries of the korean peninsula could play a valuable role during the swedish presidency. after discussions between eu member states and also with representatives of both north and south korea, the decision on the trip was taken at the eu summit in stockholm on 23-24 march 2001. the visit was based on the council conclusions and guidelines of october and november 2000. the eu delegation had substantial and lengthy talks with kim jong il during its visit to pyongyang on 2-3 may, which were then presented to president kim dae-jung of south korea. in summary, the results were good. firstly, a declaration was made that north korea is committed to the joint declaration of the inter-korean summit in pyongyang in june 2000. a statement was also made that chairman kim jong il would like to see a second summit, but that the time must be ripe for such a summit. secondly, chairman kim jong il stressed the importance of the parallel development of us-north korean relations and inter-korean relations. the eu is also calling for the release of all political prisoners and for the release of all political prisoners. however, missile exports would not cease until north korea received commitments to compensate for any lost export revenues. the export was purely a commercial matter. fourthly, north korea also recognised the need for economic reforms and agreed to send a north korean delegation to europe to learn more about market economies. fifthly, chairman kim jong il confirmed that north korea was willing to open a discussion on human rights with the eu. the eu stresses that the issue of human rights is of central importance to eu policy. i hope that a first meeting can take place under the swedish presidency. sixthly, the need for better working conditions and transparency in aid projects for the un and ngos in north korea was discussed. in conclusion, i would like to say that the south korean side was very positive about the outcome of the meeting, in particular the assurance of a second summit and the missile defence. the eu visit was fruitful. however, the results of our efforts will not be fully appreciated for a few years. the united states of course plays an important role in this wider process, but the eu's contribution is not insignificant.
commission. – mr president, the european union strongly supports president kim dae-jung's sunshine policy and it was on this basis that the mission led by göran persson, in which my colleague chris patten participated, took place. the union's role in the democratic people's republic of korea is complementary to that of the three main players: south korea, united states of america and japan. contrary to some press speculation, this mission was not intended as an attempt to supplant the american role: the us was briefed in advance and fully supported the initiative. thus press reports of an eu-diplomatic challenge to the united states were way off the mark. the timing, however, was influenced by our desire to help maintain momentum in the reconciliation process on the korean peninsula while the united states is finalising its policy review. the visit obtained, as we have already heard, significant results and the european union team had some five hours of interesting discussion with president kim chung-il during which it was able to address its concerns in full. we are now following up in five areas: first, existing assistance is being continued. a maximum allocation of eur 7 million is foreseen for humanitarian assistance and eur 20 million for food aid and food security under the 2001 budget. the most appropriate projects to support and the conditions to be applied will be discussed with north korea in the coming weeks. secondly, preparations to launch our technical assistance are moving ahead and a project identification mission to north korea is expected shortly in order to agree the design of two pilot projects with the north korean authorities: these will each be close to eur 1 million and will aim particularly at training officials in key ministries and at basic institution building. third, preparations are going ahead to organise discussions with north korea on human rights in brussels on 13 june. fourthly, we are exploring ways to develop a dialogue with north korea on economic reform by organising study visits to the union. fifth and finally, we are studying options for diplomatic accreditation arrangements with north korea following the decision to establish diplomatic relations on 14 may. since this will require negotiations, i do not wish to speculate at this point on the detail. meanwhile, we await with interest the completion of the us policy review on north korea and hope that this will lead to progress in the inter-korea reconciliation process.
- mr president, first of all i would like to thank very sincerely the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner for the information they have given us on the european union's visit to north korea. the european union must be aware of the important stakes it is facing in the future of the korean peninsula. in january last year, following a visit by an ad hoc delegation, the european parliament asked both the council and the commission to take the necessary measures to consolidate the policy of rapprochement between the two koreas and to open up north korea to the international community. in calling for the normalization of relations between the european union and north korea, we did not mean to recognize a political regime which is far removed from the fundamental values we advocate, but we did mean to support the so-called 'sunshine policy' which president kim du-yung has launched with great courage and determination, because we were aware that without the active contribution of the international community, this policy would be doomed to failure in the long run and would soon be exhausted. we therefore welcome the efforts made by the council and the commission to achieve this standardisation with a view to determining coherent lines of action with regard to the dprk. i noted with interest that the european union insisted on the effective pursuit towards pyongyang of the rapprochement initiated with south korea and the respect of the commitments made towards that country. we have also always insisted that the whole population should have access to external aid and that ngos should be able to work under satisfactory conditions. other measures, such as the granting of visas to european journalists and facilities for their work, would be likely to create the confidence needed to put rapprochement on a more stable footing. i would simply like to conclude by saying that we must be aware that the process we are embarking on will be a long and gradual one, but that it is important for the maintenance of peace in that part of the world on which our own stability and security also depend.
mr president, it will be almost six years since the famous judgment of the european court of justice of 17 october 1975 that we are discussing the amendment of the 1976 directive on equal access to employment, training and promotion and working conditions. the commission thought it right to submit a proposal to amend this directive in 1996, a directive which has nevertheless had the great merit of actually promoting equality between men and women at work in the areas concerned. the 1976 amendment proposal was aimed solely at saving the positive actions threatened by the 1975 judgment. as rapporteur on this amendment which did not reassure me, i thought it right to hear another court judgment in a similar case, the marshall case, which was delivered in november 1997 and which this time did not support mr marshall who felt discriminated against by a positive action in favour of a colleague. we have consulted again to find out whether positive actions are not discriminatory because there was a reversal of the court. the commission's proposal is not a proposal for a directive, but a proposal for a directive, and i am not going to go into it in detail. we therefore asked the commission on 8 march 1999 in this chamber not only to withdraw its proposal but to submit a new one on the basis of the ratified treaty of amsterdam. we have made this request clear by stressing that, under articles 2, 3, 141 of the treaty of amsterdam, the right to equality between men and women is a fundamental right of a democratic society, which requires that equality be achieved through a set of active measures in positive actions. our message was clear. the proposal for a directive was to contain an imperative legal mandate to take positive action whenever necessary to achieve equality between men and women and to remedy the under-representation of women in decision-making. the commission has been complied with. it has proposed to us, almost a year ago, an amendment to the 1976 directive. personally, i would have preferred it to have been a completely new version instead of a few minor amendments, because its text has led the rapporteur and the various committees involved to propose almost 200 amendments, often drawn up in ignorance of the basic text and with the certainly laudable intention of reinventing the whole equality policy in this directive in many areas covered by other directives. it is right to judge these other directives as being more perfect, but this amendment has nothing to do with them. this has not made my task as former rapporteur and as fictitious rapporteur easier, this time for my group, because unfortunately i was not prepared to forget the above message in my 1999 report. i personally think that the text proposed by the committee on women's rights is overloading the boat and is in some places legally weak, fails to meet the responsibility which the council and the commission are entitled to expect from the co-legislator which is parliament. i tried to reason with him, but i was only partially successful. i regret especially the amendments which ignore article 141 of the treaty. i regret the amendments which introduce so-called definitions. i regret the confusion about maternity protection and the confusion between maternity leave for women, parental leave, etc. (the president withdrew the speaker)
mr president, we found out in our group and after the group meeting that there was a compromise amendment no 70. i would like to make it clear that we have not been invited to participate in this so-called compromise which, for many of us, contains proposals with which we cannot agree. neither did the commissioner, she told us. but on a compromise amendment, unfortunately there is no separate vote. i must therefore explain that for some of us, while agreeing with the spirit that there should be no discrimination between paternity, there is still a difference between paternity and maternity until further notice. as far as men cannot be pregnant and cannot give birth, i would say that we gave a free vote, because we would have liked to participate in a compromise, because we have an amendment that ...
- mr president, i can also ask my group not to vote to put this amendment to the ... - my dear colleague, do you object to the vote on this amendment or not? lulling. - under the circumstances, yes.
in writing. -{de) i would have gladly approved the resolution which has been tabled on the treaty of nice and the future of the european union, with the amendments proposed by our group, if i had had the opportunity to express clearly, by a roll-call vote, what i absolutely cannot support. i share the view, shared by the former president of the commission, jacques delors, that we should not have a european constitution as long as there are member states with their own constitutions and as long as there is no european people. i am not one of those who regrets that the qualified majority rule has not been extended to taxation. we are not yet at the point where a majority in this house can decide, without the involvement of the national parliaments, the amount and type of taxes to be levied by the member states. that is why i would have liked to have been able to express my views by a roll-call vote against this particular point. i have always advocated that fundamental and constitutional questions should be voted on unanimously. that is why i would have liked to have been able to vote by roll-call vote against the paragraph which is intended to give the impression, which is misleading, that this would be detrimental to the deepening of the union's political and social integration. in order to be able to express my position clearly on this point, i could not therefore approve the resolution as a whole.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the myller report because we believe it is a step in the right direction and gives a general picture of the policies to be undertaken in the context of environmental protection. the concept of sustainable development needs to be taken into account at all levels of decision-making and in all sectors. the public authorities (european, national, local and municipal) are also called upon to take these considerations into account. companies are largely responsible for the problems we face today. however, it should not be forgotten that citizens have enormous power through demand and can thus guide environmental considerations in business investment. awareness-raising among the general public must remain a priority. moreover, even if the environment knows no borders, it is important that the european legislator respects the principle of subsidiarity, that is, that he does not over-regulate at european level, leaving it to the national authorities to define sustainable development locally, a concept that encompasses not only the protection of the environment, but also the economic and social context necessary for human beings. that is why we did not vote in favour of certain amendments which seemed to us to go beyond this framework.
in writing. -(de) the effectiveness of the use of seat belts and passenger restraints in motor vehicles in reducing serious injuries and deaths has not been demonstrated. this is particularly relevant with regard to the use of child restraints. the commission proposal and the amendments adopted by the committee improve and give substance to council directive 91/671/eec of 16 december 1991, hitherto applicable in the field of: 1. the the driver and passengers of all types of vehicles must use safety belts when fitted. 2. the the existing derogations concerning restraint systems, in particular for children, are deleted. 3. the the height of the child is considered to be the determining factor for the use of seat belts. 4. the child seats, fixed with the back to the road on the front passenger seat, shall only be permitted if the safety cushion concerned is disabled. the fifth. improvement of the information requirement. despite the fact that important points are still missing such as - the general equipment of vehicles with child seat anchorages, - the introduction of signs indicating whether the front passenger seat cushion is disabled, - the definition of the form in which information on seat belts and restraints should be introduced in vehicles, my group approves the report without reservation.
- following the discussions which led to this report, my group, by means of legally sound, progressive amendments, in the spirit of the amsterdam treaty, which are in line with the directive and which, above all, do not result in excessive bureaucratic burdens for employers, has contributed to improving the commission's proposal. unfortunately, despite compromises with which we largely agreed, the rapporteur and other groups, without consulting us, have again tabled amendments to challenge the compromises and to table a so-called compromise amendment 70. i would like to point out that, while i agree that paternity should not be discriminated against, some members of my group were unable to vote for this amendment because there will always be a difference between 'maternity' and 'paternity'. at least until further notice, men cannot become pregnant and therefore cannot give birth. in addition, there is a mix-up in this amendment, with which people who like solid legal texts cannot agree. as regards the final vote, many of us were unable to vote in favour of the report because, contrary to our opinion, amendments 4, 36, 44 were voted on. as the commissioner has said, they are unacceptable because they ignore the most basic procedures, and the provisions of the treaty in particular. if this parliament is a co-legislator, it must not confuse a legislative text with a resolution in which one can express all one's wishful thinking. legislation must be applicable. we must not forget that by making women the protegees of the workforce, we risk harming and jeopardizing their access to employment and promotion. and please, let us stop acting like the hysterical ones when it comes to sexual harassment, and finally, let us not ignore the principle of subsidiarity, especially in this area as in others. that is why many members of my group were unable to vote for this report. i look forward to the second reading and the council's wisdom on the far-fetched proposals we have adopted.
- madam president, since you have been asked, in the context of the debate on what has happened in ireland, to write to the irish authorities, i wonder if you should also be asked to write to the chairman of the british conservative party to express our condolences on the outcome of the elections, which is due, to a large extent, to a visceral and ominous euroscepticism.
the rapporteur. - madam president, for the last five years, on the basis of a 1996 regulation, eurostat has been producing structural statistics on enterprises in the industrial, construction and commercial sectors. since 1998, these statistics have also covered the field of insurance services. the proposal before us also seeks to obtain structural statistics on credit institutions, pension funds, other financial intermediaries, including investment firms, mortgage lending, mortgage lending, consumer credit and financial auxiliaries such as brokers, portfolio managers and so on. this list enables you to measure the importance of this extension of structural statistics, which should make it possible to assess the development of the internal market for financial services, but also the impact of the introduction of the single currency on the development of the internal market and the competitiveness and internationalisation of the sector. all the years we have spent here debating the single market for pension funds, all the months we have spent on the first proposal for a directive on occupational pension institutions, do not allow me to convince you of the need for us, as for other policy-makers in the european union, to have reliable information in this area as well, for example on the number of pension schemes, the number of companies with members in other countries of the european union, or even in the european economic area, but also the number of members, by sex, of these funds or supplementary pension institutions in the second pillar. i have tabled amendments which have had the unanimous blessing of our committee on economic and monetary affairs to ensure that all these breakdowns are not optional as the commission had proposed, but mandatory, and that employment data are also broken down by sex, because i am a member of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities and i therefore always try to mainstream these issues in my reports. all this to ensure that we are not poorly informed policy makers. as you know, ill-informed policymakers make poor judgments and poor decisions. the commission proposal contains a second component which aims to add two additional variables relating to expenditure on environmental protection to structural statistics on industry, construction and trade. reliable information on investments in clean equipment and facilities and current expenditure on environmental protection will be broken down by area: air and climate protection, waste water management, waste management and other environmental protection activities. for investments, an annual transmission is provided; for total current expenditure, a transmission is envisaged every three years. i would point out that there is a long transitional period and that small businesses can generally be excluded from the surveys because their impact on environmental protection expenditure is very small. i would also like to add that these data collected by eurostat are also used for sustainable development indicators. as regards the financial sector, there is no reason to fear excessive additional costs because much of the data is already collected in the context of the prudential supervision of these sectors. for other sectors, a very flexible introduction is planned. the first year of mandatory reference and the deadline for transmission will be fixed later by the comitology procedure, which we do not like very much but which in this case is the most reasonable and therefore perfectly acceptable. in general, madam president, this is a useful, even indispensable, reasonable proposal as far as data collection is concerned, well prepared by pilot studies - i would like to congratulate eurostat on all this preparation - and i believe, madam president, that our parliament will be able to adopt my report with the satisfaction of having worked quickly and well.
in writing. - (de) animal welfare is one of our ethical foundations. however, it should not be forgotten that high animal welfare standards in the european union result in higher production costs. that is why we must avoid exposing our pig farmers to competition from imports, which do not have to meet the same standards of animal welfare and can therefore charge lower prices. the import of pigmeat from third countries which do not have the same legal provisions on animal protection and health standards must therefore be stopped. the issue of animal welfare must also be addressed in the forthcoming world trade organisation negotiations. we should also consider that new requirements for the protection of animals will lead to changes in animal husbandry systems. if pig farmers have only recently built barns which meet the standards in force up to now, now that these standards have been changed - that is, strengthened - they must still be given reasonable transitional periods so that they can make good the investments made so far and adapt to the new situation. the new regulations will contain very specific details for pig farming. it describes the size of the boxes, their arrangement and the rearing of pregnant sows. in all the efforts to change agricultural policy, it must be remembered that those who want higher and higher standards of animal protection must also bear the consequences as consumers; in other words, they must be prepared to pay more for pigmeat produced under better conditions. in luxembourg we have a quality label for this type of meat which is increasingly in demand, which proves that the consumer can very well understand that it is necessary to pay more for quality agricultural products.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights, i must stress above all the importance of the principle of equality between men and women - enshrined in the treaty - being respected by occupational pension institutions, as is the case in the directives on equal treatment in public and occupational social security schemes. i am pleased to note that my ad hoc amendment has been adopted and is included in the report. i also tabled an amendment which specified that occupational pension institutions should take account of atypical or discontinuous occupational paths due to male and female family responsibilities, and provide for solutions to ensure continuity of membership. this amendment was not accepted in its wording, but it is clear to me that the occupational pension institutions cannot avoid finding adequate solutions to these situations. we have had and will continue to have homeric discussions on the question of whether supplementary pensions should be required to cover biometric risks. i am in favour of a pragmatic approach - also advocated by our rapporteur - that the institutions should offer cover for these risks as an option, such as survivors' and invalidity pensions. this obviously has a cost, but it should not depend on sex or on the individual's health examination. one of the problems to be solved in creating a genuine single market for supplementary pensions and pension funds is to ensure a tax treatment that avoids both the double taxation of contributions and benefits, and the tax exile of pensioners to avoid taxation, as well as the burdensome bureaucracy of exchanging information and collecting taxes between countries. the commission does not address the problem in this directive, but only in a communication - caution is advised, mr bolkenstein. i therefore believe that it is premature for parliament to vote in favour of a specific model - in this case the tee - as is done in the report, even if only in a recital, since direct taxes are a matter for the sovereignty of the member states. let us wait a while before we decide on a model in this extremely sensitive area. that said, mr president, i believe that the clash of ideas is the light that shines. (the president cut the speaker off)
- mr. president, i'd like to pay tribute to three women tonight. firstly, mrs rothe, who negotiated well on behalf of all the members, and mrs zackari, who ensured flexibility at the level of the swedish presidency and who in fact led the council towards a compromise acceptable to parliament and to the commissioner, representing all the officials who are fully committed to the cause of renewable energy, without whom parliament would not have been able to win the compromises it won from the council. tomorrow, a historic step will be taken towards renewable energy in europe, which will account for 22% of electricity in 2010. that's a lot of money. i'm very optimistic, even though i know that the first steps of a technology are always the hardest. on the one hand, because the costs of production have not yet been optimized, but once mass production is achieved, costs will fall. there is a second aspect which we as politicians are perfectly aware of, and that is the balance of power. the lobbies change sides once technology becomes more economically important in our societies, and the german example is very telling in this regard. the german unions that were against renewable energy and were for nuclear five years ago have switched sides because they now have more members on the renewable side than on the nuclear side. i believe that this directive has also ensured the global leadership of our industries in areas which have even greater potential than ours in renewable energy. think of countries like brazil, like india, where we're going to win markets. i also announce that i will be nominating certain delegates from certain governments for the nobel prize in chemistry and physics. indeed, when they can demonstrate scientifically how a ton of tomatoes burns itself and produces renewable energy, i believe that these delegates will truly deserve the nobel prize. if i understand things scientifically, you need plastic to burn tomatoes. in order to avoid such aberrations, i believe that the commission has a very important role to play in preventing public funds from being spent on incineration. public funds must be used to develop the right technologies, including methanation.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to congratulate first of all the rapporteur, mrs rothe, on the excellent work she has done over the course of this year and almost two months, a very short time since the commission adopted this directive, and all the members who have taken part in the work during these months of intense discussion and debate. i would like to express once again my respect and admiration for the excellent technical quality and knowledge of the subject which is shown by your contributions, your work and your amendments. i hope that we will conclude this debate today and the discussions on this directive tomorrow with the votes and that we will therefore be able to adopt a text at second reading without having to go through the conciliation procedure. this is an issue on which we must work together, as we have shown. this proposal is part of the commission's response to two major challenges. the first major challenge is the problem of how seriously the european union takes its commitments to kyoto, how it really implements measures - no doubt at a certain cost - which demonstrate our willingness to fulfil commitments made at international level. that is our first objective, but we must not forget another interesting element in this proposal, which is to increase europe's energy supply, that is to say, to increase our security of supply, not to mention the issues raised by some speakers, in terms of technological capacity for industrial development and, therefore, employment and presence on international markets. the commission is pleased to say that we can support all the transactional amendments proposed by mrs rothe. i shall not go into them, but i would like to mention some of the points that have been raised in the course of the debate. first, the question of biomass. it is a delicate matter and it would be necessary to see whether or not we would finally include the production of electricity from the incineration of unsorted municipal waste within the scope of the directive. that is, including those biodegradable wastes. the commission's initial position is known to the honourable members, but i believe that, in the interests of consensus, the concession made in this area is worthwhile in order to achieve this result. strictly speaking, this waste is of renewable origin, which is why the council has advocated its inclusion. however, the commission had not proposed them in the definition of renewable energy, as this goes against a key point, namely the objective of reuse and recycling of waste, a crucial issue in the comprehensive waste treatment proposed by the commission in the context of its sustainable development strategies. but, i repeat, the commission believes that we must find a compromise, a pragmatic solution to avoid conciliation and delay. we therefore accept the proposals put forward by mrs rothe, but we cannot accept amendments nos 12, 13 and 14. on the other hand, we believe that the proposals in amendments nos 2 and 4 are no longer necessary and we support the proposal in amendment no 11. ladies and gentlemen, i am optimistic - as some speakers, such as mr turmes, have said - that in the coming years the increased use of renewable energy will mean lower costs and will therefore make it easier to incorporate its use into our energy mix in a clearer and easier way. this is a pioneering and key initiative. some - like mrs ayuso, among others - have said that today is a historic day. in one year and two months - since the commission adopted its proposal - we shall have the directive adopted. i insist that lowering costs will allow an increase in renewable energy to produce electricity, i insist that this is a truly revolutionary proposal in many respects because, although some said that the objectives are only indicative, they can become mandatory in accordance with certain mechanisms, and it is the first time that, in a field such as this, we set indicative objectives state by state. this implies an extraordinary political burden and in that sense - i am sorry, mr caudron - i cannot agree with your assessment. in the coming months i hope to be able to propose to you an initiative for the extension, the real boost of the use of biofuels and the acceleration of their incorporation into the european union. i would like to emphasize once again my congratulations and my congratulations to mrs rothe for her excellent work, to all the honourable members, to the swedish presidency for its commitment to this initiative. i hope that tomorrow's vote in this house will allow the adoption of consensus amendments which will make it possible to adopt them at second reading and which will prevent us from delaying the resolution of this matter any further until we have reached a compromise.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the commission is aware of the fact that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to thank very warmly my colleague, arlene mccarthy, who was the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and with whom i had a particularly pleasant and, i hope, effective collaboration. i would also like to thank the services of parliament and the commission who have been very helpful in this matter. the proposal for a regulation provides for the implementation of the first-level domain.' the eu and the european union should thus assert, as such, but also in addition to the national domains, its visibility in cyberspace and transpose the trust space it has created through the internal market to the internet. in general, i think i can say that the philosophy of the commission's proposal for a regulation has not been shaken by the amendments proposed by the committee on industry and the committee on legal affairs. the parliamentary committees, mr president, are proposing amendments which add a number of details and clarifications to the text of the regulation and which, in my view, are in line with the requirements of user companies and service providers. the amendments emphasize the general principles of the aim of creating a european area of knowledge. the principles of non-interference, self-management and self-regulation, which are regularly advocated by our parliament, require the registry to manage the domain". eu" in the general interest, to observe transparent and non-discriminatory procedures and to comply with national best practices. the amendments also provide that the implementation of the regulation must take account of the principles applicable to respect for privacy and the protection of personal data. more specifically, the parliamentary committees propose that the scope of the regulation be limited to the european community. the designation of the register will be subject to publication in the official journal of a call for expressions of interest, the difference between the register and the registry office will be emphasized, and the independence of both will be emphasized. as a general rule, registration will be on a first-come, first-served basis, but with a so-called "sunrise" clause, allowing temporary protection of the rights of previous rights holders. with regard to speculative and abusive domain name registration, a policy and procedure for revocation, rather than prevention, will be adopted; finally, member states will be able to take measures to prevent the registration of terms containing well-known geographical, geopolitical or historical concepts affecting the territorial organisation of a member state under the ".eu" domain. the guidelines adopted by the council on 27 june - and therefore quite recently - do not seem to be so far removed from the text i am proposing for parliament's vote, so that the difficulties between the institutions should not be insurmountable. there will certainly be difficult discussions ahead, but i think that we should be optimistic that a common position can be reached in the coming months. in conclusion, mr president, i would therefore ask parliament, and i would ask you, to adopt the report with the proposed amendments.
in writing. - as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i had tabled a number of amendments to the draft report by our colleague jules maaten on ways of helping economic operators to switch to the euro. i am pleased to note that all of them have been adopted. in this debate, i would like to stress once again the need to keep the door open to the three member states which have chosen not to join the euro area right away. i would therefore like to stress the importance of an information campaign aimed not only at the member states participating in the common currency project but also at the others, giving them a special place in relation to third countries. our report sends a political signal in this direction. the convertibility of coins from another euro area country into euros without charge was the subject of another amendment, much of which was accepted in the final report. all citizens of the european union hold a certain number of coins from their business or leisure trips abroad. many will not have the opportunity to spend them again until the introduction of euro notes and coins on 1 january next year. that is why i put a written question to the commission at the end of november last year. the latter evasively replied to me by citing disproportionate handling costs. i wonder, however, whether it is right that citizens should once again have to bear the burden of not being able to exchange the coins of other member states that they hold. i am therefore pleased to note that parliament 'considers it necessary that recommendations be sent to the banks to ensure that the exchange of currencies of the 12 member states joining the euro can be carried out under the same conditions as the exchange of banknotes'. i hope that the commission and the governments and the banking sector will not turn a deaf ear.
in writing. - i abstained on the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union because some forces in this house have again abused this report to support the thesis that a member state would not respect fundamental rights in the european union if it did not change its legislation to allow homosexual marriages and to grant homosexual couples the same rights as married heterosexual couples. this is going too far. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. but there is no question of giving them the same rights in social security, survivors' rights, taxation and adoption, for example, as a married couple, with or without children. unmarried couples can separate much more easily and cheaply, while divorce proceedings are always complicated, costly and painful. the report recommends that the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the disabled are respected. that can't be the case. in a chapter on european citizenship, it is claimed that a member state is in breach of fundamental rights if it does not grant the right to vote and stand as a candidate in european parliament and municipal elections to third-country nationals who have been legally resident in its territory for at least three years. the right to vote shall be acquired on a reciprocal basis for citizens of the member states of the union residing in another member state. portuguese people can vote and stand for election in luxembourg and i could if i lived in portugal. but why should an algerian, for example, be given the right to vote in a member state if a national of that member state is not entitled to vote in algeria? i cannot agree with these demands, not to mention that these are areas of civil and political rights which are matters of national sovereignty. each member state is free to grant such rights to third country nationals and to offer such solutions to its residents. there is no question of this parliament condemning member states which decide not to do so.
the rapporteur. - mr president, for the second year in a row, i have the honour to present to you the report on cyprus' application for membership of the european union. the motion for a resolution before you was adopted in committee by 55 votes to 2 with 1 abstention; it presents a mixed record. on the one hand, it highlights the excellent performance of cyprus in terms of the adoption of the acquis: 23 chapters have already been closed and the remaining chapters do not present insurmountable difficulties. the proposal also regrets the continued division of the island. the hopes that the international community had placed in the proximity negotiations, conducted under the auspices of the united nations, were dashed last november by the unilateral withdrawal of mr denktash from the process. this withdrawal has so far been supported by turkey. while valuable time is being wasted in resolving the political problem before accession, your rapporteur can only recommend that the european parliament should remain firm on its previous position based on international law and justice. this position, which is also that of the united nations, the council of europe and all the european institutions, the european parliament, the council and the commission, was confirmed on 10 may 2001 by the european court of human rights. the political solution we want cannot be accommodated by a de facto situation created by force. it must, on the contrary, put the past behind it and look firmly ahead. the secretary-general of the united nations had proposed to the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots a federal system based on a democratic model and respecting the particularities of each party. such models are in operation in many european countries - the federal republic of germany, belgium, switzerland and others - where they have demonstrated both their viability and their vitality. all the relics of the past, whatever mutual wrongs have accumulated since 1960 (the problem of refugees, property, the withdrawal of troops, etc.) can be resolved through negotiations, with the support of the international community if necessary. the cyprus problem is not insoluble if the political will is there to give it a boost now. the cold war is over. all the walls have fallen in europe. yesterday's enemies have become partners. it would be in the well-understood interests of all the countries of the region, and particularly turkey, that this bone of contention should disappear. both communities on the island - and recent opinion polls prove this - want to be part of the european union. those who have chosen immobility as their only strategy, perhaps as a survival strategy, should respect their will. the european parliament, by securing a large majority for the draft resolution on cyprus, will strengthen mr kofi annan's negotiating position. the un secretary-general will have one last chance to make a breakthrough in the inter-community negotiations at the end of 2001 and the beginning of 2002. if, however, its efforts continue to be sabotaged by either side, history will condemn those who oppose the international order for good. the european union, in this case, can only honour the commitment made at the highest level in helsinki in december 1999 that a political settlement is not a prerequisite for cyprus's accession to the european union. in the meantime, your rapporteur can only call on the legitimate government of cyprus to make a decisive contribution to removing the obstacles to the remaining outstanding problems so that the accession negotiations can be concluded before the end of 2002.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gerhard schmid, on an excellent report. he concludes that a global communications interception system under the ukusa agreement exists, that it is probably called echelon, that it is used to intercept private economic but not military communications, that the technical capacity of the system may not be as great as some have assumed, but that prevention is necessary. contrary to what some minority views say, the rapporteur has not shown himself to be more concerned with economic espionage than with individual eavesdropping. it proposes no less than eight concrete measures to strengthen the protection of citizens' rights in the context of various international treaties and calls on the member states and the council to adopt at least seven specific measures in the field of national legislative action on the protection of citizens. although some specific measures are proposed for enterprises, they are less incisive and have a smaller scope than the measures concerning individual interviews. as a citizen of a country whose intelligence services are certainly shy in comparison with those of its major neighbours or allies, it nevertheless seems to me illusory and futile to propose the abolition of secret services. they exist and will continue to exist. political conclusions must therefore be drawn and solutions sought at this level: monitoring the activities of these services, subjecting them to judicial and parliamentary control, adopting uniform rules for the protection of citizens, according to the highest national level, and this throughout the territory of the union. the proposals in paragraphs 16 and 17 of the resolution must also be seen in this light. with the strengthening of the european security and defence policy and the increasing involvement of the european union in crisis prevention and management, intelligence cooperation is increasing and sooner or later the union will have to establish an autonomous european intelligence capacity. this is only conceivable in the light of a system of democratic control. as regards echelon, the resolution expressly calls on germany and the united kingdom to make the authorization of communications interception by us intelligence services on their territory conditional on compliance with the human rights convention and the case law of the court of human rights. far from being a systematic diversion, our rapporteur has put the points on the "i", has fully fulfilled the mandate given to the temporary committee on the environment and has provided our parliament with an instrument enabling it to continue its work in the interests of the protection of citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am against taking this oral amendment into account. everyone knows that cyprus has a complicated history and that there are mutual grievances. but this is not a historical report, it is a report on cyprus' progress towards accession, and i do not think this amendment should be in the report.
in writing. - (de) first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr jacques f. poos, for his report. i am glad that the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy has taken up my main demand, namely to consider adopting the community acquis on equal treatment between men and women as a prerequisite for accession. however, i would also like to express my disappointment and that of the committee on women's rights, because the other concrete demands have not been met. in this connection, i would like to point out that the employment rate of cypriot women is much lower than the community average. measures should be taken to promote women's access to vocational training and employment, to improve the situation of women on the labour market and to enable better coordination of women's professional activity and their family obligations. i therefore regret that cyprus is not taking part in the community programme on equal opportunities for men and women. it is precisely because cyprus is an advanced country in the negotiations on the chapters concerning the acquis communautaire that it is desirable that, in the framework of the first national programme on the adoption of the acquis communautaire, cyprus' participation in this programme should be ensured. in the member states of the european union, the notion of gender mainstreaming has been integrated in the most important policies and reforms in recent years. as regards the forthcoming accession of cyprus to the european union, an adaptation at the level of the current member states and a treatment of the gender role in the karolus programme on the exchange of national civil servants would be appropriate. in conclusion, i would also like to stress that although cyprus has legislation on combating trafficking in women and domestic violence, progress still needs to be made in both areas.
in writing. - four years ago i spoke in this house about the vertical directive on honey, for which mr lannoye was also rapporteur. one of my main concerns in this case was, at the time, labelling. i had tried to show that the label on a jar of honey should first of all inform the consumer of the origin and quality of the honey, in order to avoid that imported honey of unknown origin and containing or not containing any pollen is confused with quality honey produced by our beekeepers. the quality of the honey is still the issue. i would like to draw your attention to the commission's proposal on the possibility of filtering honey to remove pollen, which i strongly oppose. indeed, pollen is the only reliable indicator of honey's origin. fortunately, the amendments proposed by our rapporteur do not mislead the consumer, who would no longer be able to know the origin of honey and its exact composition if it were filtered to remove the pollen. without these amendments there would be no guarantee of the quality of the honey, since the consumer would no longer be able to distinguish the quality honey from his region from the industrial honey from overseas, which has long been subjected to the technique of filtering. in addition, the directive allows honey to contain between 20% and 80% of 'a' pollen from eight types of pollen. the label would only say 'pollen honey a' since the english version of the directive proposes the term 'mainly' to describe the composition and presence of pollen in the honey. the word 'mainly' indicates a majority, but not necessarily a majority of more than 50%. (n.b. the german translation "überwiegend" and the french "essentially" reflect this majority of over 50%). this makes it possible to mix different kinds of nectar without one nectar being present for more than 50%. you could imagine a honey with a nectar now 20 percent and the remaining 80 percent is made up of eight different varieties of nectar. (intervention by the commission under article 137 of the regulation)
- mr president, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no excuse for any act of terrorism. terrorism is first and foremost a disregard for life, a disregard for the lives of innocent citizens, sometimes a disregard for one's own life. while all peoples must take action to stop terrorism, it is not enough to arrest and prosecute the perpetrators and organizers of terrorist acts. the most important thing is to clean up the soil on which terrorism grows: poverty, underdevelopment and ignorance are the fertile ground for all forms of fundamentalism. it's a paradox that any unpredictable event can be easily explained afterwards, but it's not enough to explain the world, you have to change it. the world economy is bad. after the attack on the united states, it may get worse, especially if there is a prolonged military action. europe, in order to help others, must tackle its own economic problems. the fall in the money rent is welcome and the ecb could have prepared the markets better. it would have saved us a few ruins of stock market wealth. if there is no balanced growth in the long term and no improvement in public deficits, such an unforeseen and unpredictable external shock must lead europe to allow the automatic stabilizers to be used for all the countries of the union. it is not laxity but economic good sense. our american friends have shown us the economic wisdom. they've just decided on a substantial aid package for their civil aviation. will europe now complain to the wto about this distortion of competition? or will it also define a policy to support the economic sectors shaken by the barbaric shock? fortunately, we have the euro. without the common currency there would now have been a storm on the money markets. pushing some currencies like the deutsche mark up and other currencies deemed weaker down, with the key being a burst in the domestic market. but it is not just europe, it is the poor countries that are most likely to suffer from any reversal of the situation of a recession that is still possible. our first priority should be to achieve the real integration of all countries in world trade. the often-criticised globalisation is in fact affecting only a very limited number of countries. four fifths of world trade is between some 30 countries. there will be no development without trade. and any economy, in order to be able to export, must create endogenous growth that creates greater equity within the country. to enable this endogenous development of the poor countries, the third world debt problem must be solved as quickly as possible. only by eradicating poverty and ignorance will we defeat terrorism once and for all.
in writing. - (de) i have heard about equal pay for equal work or equal value between men and women since i was very young, and this has been going on for a long time. since 1951, there has been an international labour office convention on equal pay. since 1958 we have also had article 119 of the eec treaty. but as always, when it comes to justice for women, in all situations, not only men in politics, but unfortunately also the unions, which are still largely led by men, are being asked to enforce the principle of equal pay. since 1975, there has been a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women. we have an action programme and a community strategy for equal opportunities for men and women. we have an infinite number of resolutions and wires. there is the platform for action of the 1995 un conference on women in beijing. and now we have this report which - because the difference between men's and women's wages in the eu is, on average, 30% - is certainly not superfluous, because we know that, precisely in the policy in favour of women, little by little, the bird makes its nest. in recitals 17 and 19 of this resolution, which i support, we have made many proposals which are both good and useful in order to eliminate this pay gap which continues to be felt even in retirement - since women receive lower pensions - and which therefore leads to lifelong discrimination. it is clear that the social partners have a major role to play here, but also the courage of the women concerned and their representatives, especially in feminist organisations. we have a solid legal basis for complaining about pay discrimination.
in writing. -(de) international exhaustion of trademark rights has been hotly debated in recent months, as this report shows, which has been lagging behind for months and has been transformed in depth since the first draft report. the exhaustion of the rights conferred by the trade mark applies to all branded products. as chair of the wine intergroup, i would like to focus on the consequences in this sector. international exhaustion of the rights conferred by the trade mark will not confer any advantages in the food and drink sector on the consumer in the european union. this is confirmed by the nera study requested by the commission. in the longer term, european consumers could even suffer from the fact that our industry is being deprived of the opportunity to develop new products and offer new services to the consumer. if the income from third party parallel imports decreases sharply, the incentive to invest in new brands will also decrease. in addition, the complex distribution networks that will emerge in the event of international exhaustion of trademark rights will make it more difficult to suppress trademark piracy. this is clearly detrimental to consumers and brand manufacturers, particularly in terms of consumer health protection. i therefore oppose the international exhaustion of trademark rights. however, i shall not vote against the report, given its development since the first draft.
- mr president, commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the world situation is too serious for me to want to foolishly argue with my colleague von wogau. mr von wogau has just accused the socialists of having the worst intentions. that is certainly not the policy we are advocating here. it must be realised that the attacks of 11 september have not only caused very serious human tragedy but also that they are likely to have enormous consequences both for civil liberties and for the global economic situation. before 9/11, the slowdown was already evident in the united states, japan being in a bad position anyway. but before september 11th, there was already a certain slowdown in the european union, some forecasts had to be revised downwards and it can now be said that the third quarter will certainly not be as good as the second quarter in europe and the world. what we need to do now is avoid recession. the recession is defined, as everyone knows, by negative growth for two consecutive quarters and, to listen to my distinguished colleague von wogau, we now have to wait six months to see whether we are indeed in recession. i believe that we must react now with a pragmatic policy. i believe that europe must respond to this threat of a recessionary spiral with a proactive economic policy. this must be achieved by better coordination of economic policies within the union, as the council representative has said here, and also by increased political cooperation between the european union and all its economic partners, including the developing countries. we want a pragmatic policy like that of the united states, which, as far as i know, does not have a socialist government... of course, the stability pact must be taken into account: budget deficits must not be encouraged to exceed the 3% threshold. but, as the council representative said, the long-term sustainability of public finances must be judged and the stability pact says that public finances must be in balance or close to balance. but we also have to react in the short term. economic stabilisers can play a role. we are facing an external shock and the stability pact provides that in the presence of an external shock, we have a duty to react. i don't want to get into an ideological debate. the presentation of the stability pact by mr von wogau is purely theological. we are not asking for state aid, we are not asking for a sprinkling of water, we are asking for specific measures to support sectors in crisis. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by saying that it is essential to stress that we are not in a war of civilizations. terrorism does not represent any civilization, terrorism is the denial of all that is human. we need a coalition against terrorism, but we also need a coalition against poverty. the world bank has just highlighted the impact of the new york attacks on the developing world: we are not only going to mourn the deaths of a few thousand people in new york and washington, but we are also going to mourn the deaths of tens of thousands of children in the poorest countries of the world. we must react to this. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i would like to declare an interest in the subject matter of this report.
in writing. - last spring we approved with the council the directive on electronic commerce, which will enter into force on 17 january 2002. this directive is based on the principle of the country of origin. when this report was first presented to us in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i was surprised that some colleagues wanted to call into question this principle of the country of origin for electronic commerce in financial services. this is completely absurd. since the european parliament and the lisbon european council set themselves the objective of creating a functioning internal market for financial services by 2005, we cannot afford to adopt inconsistent legislation or to constantly revert to decisions already taken without good reason. this is not only true of some of my colleagues in the house, but also of the council, whose vote on the directive on the distance marketing of financial services i deplore. since we have finally opted for the principle of the country of origin, we must now apply it in a concrete and consistent way. i join the rapporteur in congratulating the commission on the establishment of the european extrajudicial network (eej-net) and the financial services complaints network (fin-net). the establishment of simple, cost-effective and extrajudicial procedures for obtaining redress at transnational level can only strengthen consumer confidence in the development of international financial services. consumers should of course be informed of the existence of these networks. i therefore also support the idea that all websites offering online financial services should refer to these networks.
mr president, i will try to make up for the time that mr garcía-margallo has wasted, but i would simply like to support on behalf of my group the proposals of mr olle schmidt, whom i congratulate on his hard work as rapporteur for the european parliament. we support the two amendments which he tabled. i have tabled another amendment with a few colleagues. we will most likely withdraw from this agreement, depending on the answers commissioner bolkestein will give us in a moment. we feel, and i think there are many of us who can speak for mr garcía-margallo and others, that the balance has been broken in stockholm between the council and the european parliament as a co-legislator. the commission must restore this balance. we are waiting for concrete proposals from the commissioner.
- mr president, while in many areas the european legislation we are producing here is often openly criticised - and rightly so - it must be admitted that the 1985 directive on undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities was, for once, a key piece. the success of the programme both in the investment fund sector and with the clients of these funds is proof of this. it has even become a model legislation worldwide. since its entry into force in 1989, not only have ucits assets increased dramatically, but cross-border trading has also grown very strongly. it has thus achieved the objectives for which it was designed. however, if, after ten years, this directive needs to be 'lifted' to adapt to the development of the markets, to the increasingly sophisticated offer of financial products, i remain concerned about the fate of the old funds, which do not meet the new requirements. that is why i had recommended an unlimited grandfather clause for these funds. in this area too, there are acquired rights which it is unfair to change with retroactive effect. in the absence of such a clause, there is a significant risk of market uncertainty, with adverse effects on the performance of the funds, resulting in penalisation not only of the industry but also of investors. and above all, the weaker consumers, who do not follow financial news closely and therefore react later, would be the most affected. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has finally decided in favour of a time-limited clause. this is a lesser evil, even if this clause may have negative consequences, from the competition point of view, for the former ucits, which will probably not all be able to adapt to the new provisions of the directive in the best operational or financial conditions. mr president, i hope that this limited clause will be voted on. of course, i am also opposed, let me say, to mr goebbels' amendment, which would have the effect of postponing or even sacrificing the amended directive, with which we can live, despite its shortcomings - but it was apparently a lost cause in advance. i think mr goebbels would be well advised to withdraw his amendment. he can put it in the fridge for a better opportunity to put it back in.
commission. – i should like to begin by saying that the commission would firstly like to thank very much the rapporteur, mr schmidt. on behalf of my staff – about whom mr schmidt had some extremely kind words to say – i thank the rapporteur, and the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their extremely constructive approach on these important files. the common positions are crucial elements for delivering the fsap – the financial services action plan – on time, in other words, by the year 2003 for an integrated european union for securities markets and 2005 overall. these proposals, taken as a whole, represent a highly delicate and complex compromise which the commission fully supports, as does european industry. that is an important fact to bear in mind. given the capitalisation of the ucits market – nearly eur 4 trillion – the expected benefits to be had are large. firstly, the proposals will widen the set of financial instruments eligible to be used in ucits portfolios while enhancing risk management requirements. thus they will provide greater financial diversity while keeping the original concept, namely risk diversification with the highest standards of investor protection. secondly, the management companies which generally run these savings schemes will enjoy a european passport and will be allowed to provide additional services to customers who request, for example, individual management of their assets. but they will have to comply with a comprehensive set of requirements and rules. thirdly, investor information will be strongly improved by detailed disclosure of risk profiles, along with a fully harmonised, simplified prospectus to play the role of a single, investor-friendly pan-european marketing tool. now i come to the amendments tabled. i should like to stress that the provisions contained in the first three amendments, namely the twin review clauses and the grandfathering clause, pose some difficulties for us – not because of the substance, but with the timetables proposed in each case. we would much prefer a single deadline for both, that is, 2005 – the date of the conclusion of the financial services action plan, which we think would be more logical. however, in a spirit of compromise and because we must now lay this matter to rest after twelve years of discussion, and in recognition of the efforts this parliament has undertaken, also considering the last amendment of the rapporteur with would shorten the grandfathering period foreseen in amendment no 1, the commission will, in the end, support amendments nos 1, 2 and 3. i now turn to amendment no 4, which would introduce a so-called "call-back" clause regarding the ucits contact committee. i should like to be clear that this is not acceptable to the commission. we believe that it would not be acceptable for the council either. it is not acceptable to the commission because firstly, the clause which has been tabled is not compatible with article 202 of the treaty, as mr goebbels knows full well. it is also in contradiction with existing comitology rules. of that, mr goebbels is also aware. (interruption from mr goebbels) not before 2004, mr goebbels, as i have explained on behalf of the commission many, many times. the second reason why this amendment is not acceptable to the commission is that the ucits contact committee's mandate was discussed by parliament at first reading. parliament then gave its full support to the mandate of the ucits contact committee. indeed, the first common position fully incorporated what this parliament wanted. so i suggest that mr goebbels does not back-track on what parliament has previously agreed. the third reason why that amendment is unacceptable to the commission is that accepting it would lead to an institutional dispute in conciliation and seriously put at risk the adoption of both directives. that is the last thing the commission and – i assume – this parliament would want. so let us agree on amendments nos 1, 2 and 3. in particular, i would address the following words to mr purvis, who referred to the united states' system, which is different from the european system. depositing is fundamental for the european system. we are going to consider updating, following the ecofin council of december that the european form of ucits need capital because they cannot assume debts in order to provide themselves with working capital. that is possible in the united states. therefore the need to provide such undertakings in the united states with capital is less than in europe. once again, the european undertakings cannot use debts for their working capital and therefore must provide themselves with capital. i believe the vote will be taken tomorrow and i hope we can now agree to amendments nos 1, 2 and 3 and to the proposals as such. this would allow us to move ahead constructively for the sake of european investors, european industry and the european economy. i hope that after twelve years of discussions these proposals can now find their way to the statute book.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a currency crisis is defined as a depreciation of a currency of more than 25% in a year. it was always the real economy that bore the brunt of this financial instability. less growth, fewer jobs, more misery come with financial crises. the necessary financial stability must therefore be regarded as a public good. public authorities are called upon to prevent, if not manage, any crisis as best they can. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has asked me to draw up this own-initiative report. i have had some problems with the rules laid down by the bureau of our parliament. my report was too long, as if the complexity of international monetary relations could be described in five pages. the meltzer report to the u.s. congress covered about a hundred pages. the meltzer commission, composed of parliamentarians, scientists, bankers and trade unionists, provoked a lively international debate. my humble report and the resolution that has been proposed will certainly not provoke the same debate. to be more serious, our parliament should have taken the same approach as the american congress, that is, it should have been able to produce a joint report with detailed proposals. the draft resolution is limited to a few essential questions. the focus of my report is on the notions of transparency and accountability, regulation and solidarity. in the year 2000, the private sector transferred about twenty times as much to developing countries as the world bank and other multilateral banks. open financial markets can ultimately bring about significant efficiencies in world trade, provided they are better managed. international financial institutions must become truly universal. the imf must become more democratic. the supermajority of 95% for all important decisions must be abolished. it gives the united states and the union a veto if the union succeeds in joining the international monetary fund. the quota and special drawing rights issues need to be increased regularly in line with the growth of the world economy. common standards and norms must be applied at international level. a legal and judicial framework is needed to enable insolvency crises to be resolved quickly. the private sector must be involved in crisis management, in particular through the generalisation of collective action clauses. this involvement must extend to the freezing of debt service payments. this will reduce the moral hazard and reduce the cost of restructuring programmes. better crisis prevention cannot be achieved without increased supervision of off-balance-sheet operations. in particular, there is a need to strengthen the prudential requirements imposed on banks when they act as counterparties to hedge funds. europe must become more active in international fora. the ecb needs to be more involved in this. the european system of central banks should be designated as a coordinating body for the supervisory and control authorities of the union. one of the conclusions of my report is that the tobin tax will not work. it would even have a negative economic impact. why penalize transactions between the strong currencies, which account for more than 95% of international monetary exchanges, by claiming to prevent speculation against the currencies of emerging countries? with the chilean casing, we can get a better result. nevertheless, i welcome the decision of the ecofin council to invite the commission to prepare a report in this respect which i hope will make the decision much more objective. my report strongly emphasizes the need to resolve the third world debt problem as quickly as possible. this debt should be partly cancelled and partly refinanced, in order to enable emerging countries to repay the balance up to a maximum of 5% of the annual proceeds of their exports. the 1953 london agreement provided for such arrangements in favour of germany. this was the basis of the german post-war economic miracle. it could also be the basis for a new economic partnership between all nations, the beginning of a true globalization. the solution of the third world debt problem would enable the development of these countries to take place in their own country and would be the foundation for the victory over poverty and ignorance and, therefore, against intolerance and terrorism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a german proverb says: what lasts long, finally becomes good. i am not yet convinced, especially after hearing the rapporteur say that the vote tomorrow on the recommendation for second reading to amend this important 1976 directive will really be a success. i must say that i was pleasantly surprised by the council's progressive common position after the first reading in this house, which was a mess and for which my group had little to do. i could have even lived with the text proposed by the council. we could have avoided wasting precious time on laborious resolution negotiations with too many amendments. but that should not be the case, because the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has again ignored the adage that better is the enemy of good. the rapporteur has been able to persuade the rapporteur to put forward some more unnecessary amendments which, apart from a semantic justification and a flawed ideology, really do nothing for the women outside. we now have new proposals from the green group, of which the rapporteur is a member. the directive is one of the most important european legal texts. it must be clear and legally sound. it must not be overloaded with superfluous literature which has no place in a legal text which the judges of the european court of justice in luxembourg will have to interpret. judges, to whom i have now read updated definitions of harassment and sexual harassment in the workplace, are already getting their hair done. i would like to stress in particular that the council has recognised men's right to paternity leave. it took a lot of persuasion to persuade the rapporteur not to include in the text that any discrimination against not only women but also men in connection with pregnancy or motherhood is discrimination within the meaning of this directive. but we were able to make it clear that men still cannot get pregnant and therefore cannot give birth. the rapporteur has now wanted to write back at the last minute - she has tabled an amendment against our agreement - that disadvantages between a man and a woman in the context of reconciling family and work are considered discrimination. it is not a question of the commission's being able to take action in this area. many of us also have a stomach ache from the union lawsuits and the demands on employers to produce complicated annual reports and statistics. one more word on equal pay. we have a directive from 1975 on equal pay for equal work or work of equal value. i'm sure it needs improvement, but in its own context, not here. we call on the member states to take measures to ensure that employers promote equal pay for equal work in a planned and systematic way. this is bizarre for a number of reasons. firstly, we have the autonomy of the partners, the employers and the trade unions. requiring employers to promote equal pay for equal work falls behind the requirements of the 1975 equal pay directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is not the case with legislation. i hope that we will remember the essential points in the interests of equal treatment for men and women and that we will delete the superfluous points in the vote tomorrow.
- mr president, i ask to speak on a personal matter. i must protest against what the liberal spokeswoman said when she said that the epp's position on parental leave for men was a bad position. i have to say to her - no, i do not know the name of the lady in question and i apologize for that - that if she has read what is proposed in mrs hautala's recommendation for second reading, she cannot bring this case against us. i do not know whether the gue colleague has also misread the amendments, because the text on the separate right to leave... (the president interrupts the speaker) yes, but i have to say it, mr president! we're being sued for intent. these ladies have misread the text and i for my part will not tolerate a trial of intent on the issue of paternity leave, because what is said on the right to paternity leave - and we support it, mr president - is exactly what the council says. so why should my group be sued for intent because we are in favour of paternity leave: we have said so, and the text is the same as the council text. mr president, i cannot tolerate the spokesmen of the liberal group and the gue group making a trial of intent against us both. maybe they should read the texts!
commission. – the commission can accept in part or in spirit amendments nos 1, 5, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15 and 16. the commission rejects amendments nos 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12 and 17.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think mrs gröner is wrong. we have not deviated from the compromise. on the contrary, we stand by what we agreed to. but we do not agree with the amendments which have come after the compromise and with which we do not agree. we have not deviated from the compromise at all, on the contrary! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i am very flattered to be able to present this report on the reform of the council in the presence of the representative of the council and the representative of the commission. this own-initiative report is not just for the council. it concerns the european parliament and the commission equally, who are equally interested in the proper functioning of the institutional triangle, its efficiency and its coherence. in an enlarged union, it is imperative that the community institutions improve their decision-making capacity and their responsiveness. the rapporteur does not consider it a crime of inquiry to say that the council is the institution which is functioning the worst today. this is a serious matter, since this institution, which has both executive and legislative powers, has remained, despite the changes in the treaty, the essential centre of power of the european union. the council has lost much of its effectiveness. in my report, you'll find the long list of malfunctions. i have based my opinion on preparatory work, some of which was initiated by the council itself three or four years ago. but nothing has been done since then, while other preparatory work has been done by former players in the institutional arena, and not the least of them, and i mention in particular the jacques delors' our europe working group. among the dysfunctions, i must emphasize in particular the institutional drift of which the community method, and with it the commission, has become the main victim. the rise of the european council, combined with the weakness of the general affairs council, has restored the intergovernmental method of decision-making. with the sherpas came a method that is reminiscent of secret diplomacy in the 19th century. with the mini-summits, such as the one in ghent, the trend towards the establishment of directories has reappeared, a dream that, since the fouchet plan of the 1960s, some have never abandoned. to remedy this drift, your rapporteur recommends nothing more, but nothing less, than a return to the treaty. let us ask the european council not to concern itself with the details and not to take over, like a giant vacuum cleaner, all the important decisions. too much kissing is bad hugging. or worse, the european council has become a blocking element in the institutional system. no one dares to decide anymore. it all goes back to the top. the european council should confine itself to giving general guidelines for european policy, as provided for in the treaty. we must give the council of general affairs a new lease of life, giving it the power to settle disputes between specialised councils and to ensure consistency in decisions. to this end, a single preparation channel is indispensable, and the same single preparation channel could also serve the european council. let us demand that the ministers sitting in the general affairs council do not deal with european affairs at a single light monthly meeting, during which neither the attendance nor the material conditions allow for an in-depth discussion of the items on the agenda. the motion for a resolution suggests a series of practical remedies, all of which can be implemented immediately without amending the treaty. before concluding, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the proposals for improving the council's cooperation with the european parliament. they concern both the presence of ministers at our important meetings and the acceleration of the legislative procedure from the first reading. on transparency, i hope that the european parliament and the council will follow the constitutional committee in proposing that the council be public when it meets on legislative matters. this obviously requires a substantial reorganization of the agenda and the discipline of the sitting. the council, sitting in open session, when acting as a co-legislator, could thus be perceived by the citizens as a second legislative chamber, a function which the council actually already performs today.
- strengthening freer, but also fairer and more sustainable global trade within the framework of a multilateral system and a reformed wto is the challenge that the european parliament is tackling with the desire report. the report, while advocating multilateralism in international trade negotiations, has the intellectual honesty to admit that globalisation as it stands today has serious shortcomings. the concrete proposals put forward by the rapporteur for reforming international institutions deserve our attention: greater transparency, reform of the regulatory procedure. a word on democratic control: for me, the parliamentary forum at the wto is a façade democracy instead of real democratic control. the real democratic control will be ensured when the national parliaments have real control over their governments in the negotiations, and when the european parliament, mr lamy, has real control over the commission and not just a façade control as it is done today. the position of the european parliament before the next cycle, if it is based on the désir report, will have to be to reform the wto, to implement the so-called uruguay agreements, but without extending them to topics which remain highly controversial. in voting for the desire report, i also see a very clear advance by the socialist group here in the european parliament, which is finally, after many years, moving closer to its true values, which are solidarity and a better distribution of wealth, and i also welcome the words of mr verhofstadt this morning: he has finally understood that a dialogue with the movement for fairer trade cannot take place if it is put aside by calling its members anti-globalists.
in writing. -{de) we all agree that a certain degree of protection of privacy and personal data is one of the foundations of an effective democracy. with modern means of communication and in a rapidly expanding information society, this is more important than ever. however, the protection of personal data could have undesirable consequences if it is misunderstood. the commission's text thus provides for the prohibition of electronic advertising messages which have not been explicitly requested in advance by the consumer. this principle, known as opt-in, is in flagrant contradiction to the principle also found in the e-commerce directive, which allows advertising unless the consumer has expressly objected to it. this last principle, called opt-out, is of course free of cost and has no difficulty since, in many cases, a simple click is enough to unsubscribe from an unwanted file. in addition, the e-commerce directive provides for additional transparency requirements, such as advertising messages being identified as such by their title alone and the user being able to identify the sender of the message before opening it. an unwanted e-mail can be deleted in seconds, with a simple click, without the consumer having to spend more money, time, or energy. moreover, the freedom to send electronic advertising messages is a boon, especially to small and medium-sized businesses, which cannot afford expensive television or other media advertising. to deny them this opportunity to make themselves known to a wide public at a low price would simply be to give large national or multinational companies an even greater competitive advantage. in the light of these considerations, i shall vote in favour of the text adopted in committee on 'unsolicited messages'.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the greens and my own position have been discussed at length in other forums, so it is not possible to present a nuanced argument in two and a half minutes. i shall therefore simply ask the commissioner a few questions. firstly, i think it is important that this debate be based on as accurate figures as possible. already at a preliminary stage of the debate it was clear that the scenarios available to the commission are not really bottom-up scenarios for energy efficiency, renewables or cogeneration. another problem is that the european scenarios often do not correspond to detailed scenarios drawn up by member states. in this context, i would like to know whether the commission has started working on such scenarios in the run-up to the barcelona summit. secondly, energy efficiency is a given for everyone and everyone is stressing this point. where is the commission today in terms of the important actions to be undertaken in the field of energy efficiency? i believe that parliament, both through its initiative for an energy intelligent europe and through the action plan, has put forward a number of ways forward. however, since october i have not seen any real sustained effort on the part of the commission to do so. thirdly, and i think this is a fundamental point, when you began the presentation of the green paper, you promised us a genuine democratic debate. but today i see that on the one hand the round tables at national level have not been very transparent, and on the other hand at european level we still expect an open and transparent debate, as you announced at the beginning as one of the key elements. that is why i am asking you today, commissioner, when the round tables will be held in civil society, between experts at european level. we've been hearing about them for six months, and we haven't seen anything coming. i do not see how the commission can follow up the green paper without having organised these round tables.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am aware of the scale of this challenge, both because of the size and complexity of the issue itself and because of the number and diversity of parties affected by it, inside and outside parliament. when i speak of energy security, i am not referring to the physical supply alone, but also to energy systems and services that are sustainable from an ecological, social and economic point of view. in this sense, the security of energy supplies is fundamental to our development and security in the broad sense, and recent events have shown this even more clearly. the tragic events of 11 september have shown our dependence on imports and the security of our facilities. the risk factor has multiplied overnight: risk of premeditated damage to facilities and infrastructure, risk of volatility in oil markets (with the detrimental effect this can have on the world economy) and risk of disruption to our supply, both internal and external. this makes it more important than ever to have the right mechanisms in place to respond in case of an emergency. i hope to see, through the responses to the green paper - more than 150 formally, from different organisations of all kinds - the interest that issues related to the security of energy supply arouse throughout europe and beyond. i am pleased to confirm the general support for the commission's analysis and the considerable degree of awareness of the risks and problems facing europe in ensuring the security of energy supply and the international nature of these risks and problems. that is reflected in the excellent report before you. many respondents admitted that it is no longer possible to consider energy supply as something independent of economic and environmental objectives. in addition, a number of points in the report confirm that the european parliament has clearly understood that there is a close link between the three objectives and that the balance between them must be maintained. the responses also confirm that european public opinion shares the commission's desire to tackle the problem of climate change. i am pleased to see that the european parliament not only shares this concern but has a great many ideas on the instruments which can help to achieve this objective. we will study these ideas in depth when preparing our response to the green paper consultation. i will not go into it now, but i want to say very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, that the subject has been the subject of debate in many national parliaments - some of which i have personally attended or in which high-ranking commission officials have participated - and in various academic, social and non-governmental organisations - thanks, among other things, to the use of a vehicle for openness within society, such as the internet - which, although still incomplete, gives us an idea of the importance of this issue in all social areas of the european union. i am particularly pleased to emphasize the emphasis on energy efficiency. i think, like you, that there are vast areas of improvement. the commission's proposals are based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the community's policy on energy. as the report admits, no single source is completely free from drawbacks: all have a cost and all seem necessary. as far as coal is concerned, we have no alternative but to maintain subsidized basic production, at least for a certain period of time. in any case, the commission's proposal for a regulation confirms the importance we attach to our own production, but above all the importance of developing a clean coal technology, which will make it possible to use the only source of fossil energy of which the european union has ample reserves and promote the possibility of improving and reducing emissions at international level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the importance of renewable energy will depend on how quickly we can overcome a whole series of technical, social and economic obstacles. the renewable energy directive, with regard to electricity, sets the tone for the direction we should take. i know we have been criticised for not making enough progress with this directive, but we are still trying to achieve our target of doubling the share of renewable energy by the end of the decade. in this connection, ladies and gentlemen - i am referring to mr souchet's earlier speech - we adopted a few days ago an important and ambitious proposal on biofuels, which i hope will be adopted and supported by both the council and parliament. as regards nuclear energy, i am very pleased with the frank and constructive exchange of views which the presentation of the green paper has made possible. some states have announced a moratorium or the progressive dismantling of their nuclear generating capacity. but one member state has clearly announced its intention to go ahead with nuclear energy and build a new reactor. in any case, the abandonment of nuclear energy by some member states may open up a significant gap in our energy capacity and accelerate the use of energy sources with higher greenhouse gas emissions and thus pose problems in relation to our kyoto commitments. although i fully respect the decisions taken by the member states, as is natural, i believe that in these circumstances it is very difficult to tackle the problem of climate change if we maintain a diversified energy base. i think it is advisable to keep all options open while research is being intensified in the field of waste management and disposal and that is where the major problem of nuclear energy lies, given the progress made in the field of safety at nuclear power stations. the debate on the green paper is still open. it is therefore premature to anticipate final conclusions from it. the commission is, however, continuing to make proposals in the search for new sources of energy. we are working with you and the council on internal market legislation concerning one of the pillars of our strategy, both in gas and electricity. we must continue to look at the tax and pricing framework and, in particular, ensure that an energy pricing mechanism reflects all quantifiable external social and environmental costs. in this area too, we shall shortly be presenting interconnections of energy networks which will make it possible to integrate national markets more closely and thus strengthen the security of the whole market resulting from this integration. i hope that i shall soon be able to present a proposal on combined heat and power generation, which will make it possible to make further progress in the fight for efficiency. someone said earlier that we've done very little. but i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of a very important proposal on buildings (buildings account for 40% of energy consumption, and there are savings margins of almost 20%), the proposal we are going to make to improve the current regulation on combined heat and power generation, and a generic proposal, a framework proposal, which will make it possible to provide measures for all types of electrical appliances or instruments within the equipment of buildings. the benefits of energy saving on demand are clear and, i repeat, we have already put forward many serious, sound and far-reaching initiatives, and we will present the ones i have just mentioned. the commission has made a very detailed analysis of transport and its impact on demand in the white paper, and i have outlined some important aspects of this in the context of the biofuels proposal which was adopted last week. the report also acknowledges unequivocally the international nature of the energy supply challenges. the increase in our dependence, not only on oil but also on gas, makes it imperative that we look at the wider geopolitical implications of the current market situation. the commission intends to draw up a report on this subject next year and we would of course like to use the opportunities offered by the sixth framework programme for research and development and the successor to the energy framework programme as instruments to support our strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of energy security. the debate on the green paper has highlighted - as never before - the delicate interrelationship between energy needs, environmental objectives and balanced economic development. many of the ideas presented in your report can be important elements in guaranteeing the security of our energy supply. as i have explained, some of these have already been put into effect, but they do not yet constitute a definite strategy. europe needs to establish a stable long-term framework for ensuring energy security, which is above and beyond changes in international, economic and environmental circumstances, and which provides a firm basis for europe's future role on the international stage. with this in mind, i would like to use the barcelona european council next spring as a launch pad for a european energy supply strategy, and you can take it for granted that - when designing such a strategy - the ideas contained in this report will be taken very seriously. i hope to discuss this with you in future. i would like to congratulate mr chichester once again on his excellent work and on the work he has done. i also congratulate and thank mrs ayuso on her opinion report, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and i thank each and every one of the speakers for their comments on this report and this debate. i can assure you that we will continue to work on it when the conclusions are finally presented, which will close the general debate on the green paper drawn up by the commission.
- i had asked the commissioner two very specific questions and i am a little disappointed that she has been unable to give me an answer. one was on the screenplays, the other on the round tables.
in writing. - the commission is infuriating us with ill-considered and inadequate proposals in the field of indirect taxation, particularly with regard to excise duties. today, his proposals concern tobacco. we already know that it is also "mijote" a proposal to increase excise duties on alcohol and to abolish the zero rate for wine, which is equally inadequate, even counterproductive. like us, the economic and social committee overwhelmingly rejected the commission's proposal as an inappropriate instrument which, instead of reducing the gap between the rates of excise duty applied in the member states, would even risk increasing it. the purported objective of greater harmonisation would therefore not be achieved and the balanced compromise reached under the luxembourg presidency in 1992 between those in favour of proportional taxation and those in favour of a taxation of a specific nature would be called into question. this compromise was based on a balance of the sacrifices to be made in the interests of harmonization, so that the single market could come into force in 1993. the implementation of this unfortunate proposal of the european commission also carries the danger of massive smuggling in the southern eu member states and, after enlargement, in central europe. the increase in cigarette prices would be between 200% and 500%, further illustrating the unreality of this proposal. the arguments of our rapporteur, with whom i agree, for rejecting the commission's proposal outright, are convincing in more than one respect. i quote: "technical errors in the analysis" · discrimination between countries; · breakdown of the current equilibrium; · uncertainties and unreality of the proposed objectives; · the invocation of divergences in tax revenues instead of convergence of tax rates; • the risk of eliminating medium-sized manufacturers from a market dominated by giant multinationals; (intervention by the commission under article 137 of the regulation)
- mr president, this debate concerns the essential questions of humanity: what is life, how to understand the inevitable march towards death that characterizes all existence? is not the transmission of life the deep meaning of evolution, the only moral law of a nature otherwise insensitive to our moral concepts? life is undoubtedly a process. it is futile to try to define the origin of life. for some, it begins with the fusion of a spermatozoon with an egg. but every sperm cell lives, even though there are billions of them moving around needlessly. an unfertilized egg ceases to live. the embryo, by dividing into two, then four, eight, sixteen and more cells, is the process of life. by the fourth day, each cell is totipotent, containing all the genetic information of a potential human being. but to become a human, the embryo must be attached to a womb and develop for months. however, an embryo is not just any material. so there can only be superior reasons for sacrificing him. our societies generally accept abortion in order to preserve the physical or mental health of a mother. can this ethic of the lesser evil not be applied to surplus embryos for which a parental project no longer exists? isn't it better to use these embryos for serious research, instead of destroying them? reproductive cloning has no advocates in parliament. but the possibilities opened up by therapeutic cloning deserve to be the subject of well-managed basic research. our society accepts serious medical research on the fetus, the child, the adult and the corpse. why special status for the one embryo? i'm advocating for science, for the right to know more. i am calling for public funding for this necessary research. it would be irresponsible to leave it to the commercial sector alone. not all research is guaranteed to succeed. we need to back up all the good leads. this is true for adult stem cell research. since only about 20 of the 216 types of cells in the human body have the ability to produce more than one cell, research on embryonic stem cells cannot be neglected. these are pluripotent by nature and can help regenerate all the tissues that make up the human body. i am convinced that genetic science will progress, with or without europe. but i hope that europe will not be left behind in this revolution. i respect those colleagues who have doubts, who see more risks than hopes, but i do not accept that the necessary defence of human dignity should be used as a sort of club to silence those who do not want to limit all human dignity to a pile of cells. where is the dignity of those who suffer a thousand deaths before they die, who sink into sickness or insanity? can we really focus on defending new life, when life that is there is too often ignored, neglected, oppressed. would not the search for new therapies against cruel diseases, against predispositions or, worse, against genetic predestinations, be the true defense of human dignity?
- madam president, just to point out that we should ask the services to check the french version of this amendment. not only does it not conform to the original version, but it is almost unintelligible.
in writing. - the leinen-méndez de vigo report has rightly received the support of the house. by proposing a more democratic, transparent and effective method of reforming the treaty, the european parliament's resolution is attempting to remedy a fact confirmed by all the polls: the indifference of the citizens towards the construction of europe. it is to be hoped that the laeken summit will succeed in creating, through the mandate of the convention, the conditions necessary for a more logical and balanced institutional project. citizens will once again recognise themselves in the european project if the participants in the summit succeed in presenting to them political objectives for which it is useful and necessary to fight. to implement them, no new institutions need be created. we will simply have to improve and make the ones we have work better.
in writing. -7 - i approved the 1998 directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions, which i considered to be a good one, even though most of the texts on which we have to vote could be improved. it is necessary, however, because we cannot afford to leave a legal vacuum on this issue in the european union if we are to remain globally competitive in research, which will certainly not be the case if we do not provide legal protection for biotechnological inventions and if we do not reserve a place for research. however, reserving space for research cannot be seen as pushing ethical boundaries. in view of the hopes for a cure for people who are suffering from incurable diseases, i believe that the church too must be open to the idea of developing and using new methods of healing for the seriously ill. existing stem cell research and its promotion (as president bush is advocating in the us) should be allowed in basic research throughout europe. in any case, it should give priority to adult and foetal stem cells. the use of stem cells for therapeutic purposes is advancing as a potentially revolutionary new method for treating disease and injury. the aim of this therapy is to develop differentiated cells or tissues for transplantation in patients with diabetes, alzheimer's disease, parkinson's disease, heart attack, etc., in short, diseases for which there is as yet no effective therapy or treatment. it is quite clear to me that we can only speak of sources of stem cells which have already been produced, which can be maintained and reproduced in culture. i think it's unethical to produce embryos for research. this cannot be allowed.
- mr president, although this is not provided for in the strict sense of article 9, i would like to declare an interest in the four reports on the telecom package.
- madam president, madam president-in-office, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the middle east in december 2001, eight years after oslo, fifteen months after the start of the second intifada, is catastrophic. mr sharon has failed to deliver on his election promises to improve the security of israel and its citizens. the head of the palestinian authority is weakened, encircled and besieged in his territories which are autonomous in name only. the palestinian civilian population appears to be more enslaved than ever and without any prospect of a future. the international community, which wants peace, is now pursuing an intermediate but unattainable objective: a plan named after a us senator, mr mitchell. the mitchell plan is well-intentioned because it aims first to stop the slaughter, but it is a deception, because every mini-deal struck on such a narrow basis would be at the mercy of the last of the crazy suicide bombers and we would have to start all over again. even if mr sharon's preconditions are met, even if the mitchell plan is fully - and painfully - implemented, it would not change the root causes of the conflict, and mr sharon's visceral personal dislike of mr arafat would not magically disappear. the root causes of the conflict lie in the continuing occupation - "cruel", according to the sakharov prize winner, who was speaking this morning - of the palestinian and syrian territories conquered by israel during the 1967 conflict. only when all these territories, including east jerusalem, have been liberated by the occupying army, as demanded by un resolutions, will the conditions for a stable and lasting peace be created. the european union should therefore advocate a definitive and immediate agreement providing for secure, internationally recognized borders, and, if necessary, protected for a transitional period by an international force. all the countries of the region could then start over on a new basis and, with the support of the union, enter the phase of reconciliation and reconstruction. israel must return to its 1967 international borders and the arab world must formally and irrevocably recognize them. this is the ultimate objective which the council should firmly pursue on the international stage. in doing so, europe would be playing the role that everyone expects it to play in the middle east. what is at stake today is not an equidistant role but an equitable role. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - occupational pensions will become increasingly important in ensuring that pensions provide security, sustainability and effectiveness of social protection and a decent standard of living for retired people. the creation of a genuine single market for pension funds is urgently needed and to achieve this, a tax approach should be provided for which, irrespective of the country of residence of the member or pensioner, will avoid contributions and benefits being subject to double taxation and discourage tax evaders from tax exile. i did not vote for the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the commission communication on the elimination of tax obstacles to the crossborder provision of occupational pensions, because the methods advocated there are contrary to the objective pursued. the proposals contained in the report before us will create a burdensome bureaucracy linked to the exchange of information and the collection of taxes between member states and are by no means a practical and effective solution to abolish tax barriers to the cross-border provision of occupational pensions. instead of starting a process of consultation in order to be able to put in place the tax model currently in force in the member states which is the most efficient and least bureaucratic to avoid double taxation of contributions and benefits, the report already decides in favour of the eet scheme, whereas it is clear that the eet tax scheme, which includes a tax on entry into the plan and the exemption of pensions on exit, would guarantee a uniform tax treatment, regardless of the country of residence of the affiliate or the pensioner, that it would ensure that the tax base is in the country which allows the tax advantages for the establishment of the occupational pension plan, and would make the question of the superfecta by tax revenues. (intervention by the commission under article 137 of the regulation)
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. since 1985 there have been alarm bells in this parliament to warn of the existential threat to european beekeeping. in 1992, 1995, and 1997, we have made concrete, reasonable, affordable and legally sound proposals for direct aid in resolutions adopted almost unanimously to save european beekeeping, which is in a real crisis despite the rosy statistics in the commission. we are not primarily concerned with achieving a higher level of self-sufficiency in the consumption of quality honey by our beekeepers, above the current level of almost 50%. i'm not going to. we are talking about the pollination of over 80 000 crops and wild plants, which must be ensured throughout the eu. this is threatened by the alarming decline in the number of beekeepers, half of whom are over 60 years old, and which is really dramatic in several regions. it is truly remarkable that, despite the patience and tenacity shown by the spokesmen of all the political groups in this house since 1985, we have not succeeded in convincing the commission that it recognizes that its halfhearted policy, as a result of the 1997 decaffeination regulation, needs to be improved urgently if we are to avert the threat posed by the crisis in beekeeping to the balance of the european ecosystem. it is incomprehensible, indeed offensive, that despite its report on the unsatisfactory implementation of the inadequate measures resulting from the half-hearted 1997 regulation, the commission wants to continue to remain passive, even though it recognizes that european beekeeping is facing growing difficulties. we cannot tolerate this, excuse me, commissioner, this absurdity any longer. the commission should come to its senses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not distorted. you understand that, mr fischler. the treaty provides the necessary basis for the immediate introduction of the direct aids, such as the pollination premium, which we have called for since 1992. in my report we have again made concrete proposals for financing, short and medium-term, which i cannot present all of them for reasons of time. but the commission can read. we therefore want to hear from her today that she is prepared to move in the right direction on the basis of our proposals, supported by all beekeepers in the community, from north to south. mr fischler was able to see this for himself on tuesday when beekeepers from most of the member states were in the house with their products, which, incidentally, were so well received that several stands were completely emptied before the beekeepers could offer their products to the invited guests. i would also like to thank the colleagues who attended the meeting with the more than 60 beekeepers and who, like the colleague on the committee on agriculture and rural development, wholeheartedly supported the demands contained in my report. we need a more generous community co-financing beyond the existing 50% because some member states are too stingy to spend that 50% on programmes to improve the production and marketing of honey under the 1997 regulation, so that their beekeepers do not even benefit from the few hungry euros available to their country. we need both the immediate measures called for in the report and, in the medium term, as part of the mid-term review of agenda 2000, direct aid, in particular the exchange premium for the loss of income resulting from the lack of community preference in this sector. i am almost proud that i have managed, together with my colleagues from the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on budgets, to increase the appropriations for programmes to improve the production and marketing of honey for 2002 from 14 to 16.5 million. this is the only compulsory expenditure in the agricultural budget which has suffered this fate. this is not to say that the commission's bee policy is not well developed. it only requires the political will of the commission and the council to avoid the misappropriation of the 2 billion in the eu budget for an amount which the eu spends in less than five hours a year, and it is only this political will that will help to safeguard european beekeeping together with the beekeepers and prevent us from running blindly into the walls of an ecological catastrophe in the medium term! (applause from the centre)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i would like to congratulate you, mrs lulling, on the title of 'queen bee of the european parliament' which you have been awarded today. i would also like to congratulate you on the report you have submitted. however, i hope that in the matter of stinging, which was also mentioned, you do not share the fate of a bee, because bees are known to sting only once. that would be anything but desirable. programmes to improve the production and marketing of honey are regularly submitted for approval by all member states and, given that only 80% of the available funds have been used, it seems clear that satisfactory application of regulation 1221/97 is ensured. the council also accepted the european parliament's request for an increase of eur 2.5 million in the appropriations for implementing the regulation. the commission would therefore welcome the fact that these budgetary resources are also fully used by the member states and the companies concerned in order to implement as many measures as possible within the existing legal framework and thus help the sector to develop in line with the rapporteur's considerations. when the report on the first three years of application of this regulation was submitted to the council, the representatives of the member states did not raise any objections and unanimously endorsed the commission's conclusions. the commission's discussions with the industry welcomed the continuation of the aid scheme for european beekeeping. the economic situation in the honey sector is stable, production and imports are at a constant level and the self-sufficiency rate has been between 48 and 50% for several years. in view of these facts, and also in view of the heterogeneity of the sector and the completely different forms of beekeeping in the european union, we believe that neither a new common market organization for the honey sector nor a direct aid scheme in the form of direct income support for beekeepers would be justified at present. other suggestions in the report, such as certain aids to improve bee populations through joint rearing stations, can be implemented in the existing regulation, and we do not need new legislation to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be important, however, for member states and the companies concerned to work together more closely in the implementation and execution of the programmes, so that there is a future coherent policy and financial support for this sector throughout the union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to take this opportunity to say that i am somewhat disappointed that mr fischler is still here and will not be able to be present for the vote this evening. we cannot say that these meagre funds, between 10 and 14 million - well, we will get a little more next year - when they are used to 80%, are satisfactory. i know that the member states are required to do so and that a little more will be done within the existing legal framework, but we also want to have a little more flexibility in dealing with what is possible now. i have to say, though, i'm a little appalled that you're telling us now, in the council, the representatives of the member states - that is to say, no member state - made no objections, as if nothing needed to be done at all. i think it is quite clear that the member states do not seem to want to react to what the european parliament has to say about its report. but we will then work with the beekeepers to ensure that the member states take note of what we have to say about the report before they think there is no need for action. you know that we have not called for a system of power, but we still believe that there must be direct aid schemes in the medium term. they say that's not justified at the moment. you have heard the beekeepers, they have a very different opinion, and they must know what is going on in this area. we will also ensure that beekeepers are better informed about the possibilities of structural policy and the promotion of agricultural production - but we have very few resources - for many quality products. mr president, i just wanted to say this to mr fischler, because i cannot leave what he has said here - and i would have hoped for something more - in the chamber!
- i don't agree with that. there are languages which are not spoken by many people, but which are nevertheless national languages, such as luxembourgish. it's not a minority language, it might become one with immigration, but it's not a minority language. it's not much of a conversation, but we can't do that.
- mr president, big declarations and small progress, summits follow one another and look alike. apart from the expected launch of the convention, laeken produced few concrete results. fortunately, europe had set new ambitions for economic growth and employment in lisbon. for this essential purpose, laeken merely referred to the lisbon decisions. it's better than nothing, and nothing is better. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the feira agreement should lead to an exchange of information between the member countries. the day when each citizen pays the tax due, as decided by his national parliament, all efforts to harmonize taxes, and even to promote healthy tax competition, will be forgotten. each member state will again define its own tax policy. the rest will have to provide the information required for each individual to be taxed according to his nationality. some dependent or associated territories are reluctant to adopt information exchange. switzerland and other third countries reject the system as being contrary to banking secrecy. like austria, luxembourg and perhaps others will not run feira without an extended agreement to the major financial centres outside the union. the blockage is still guaranteed. i call on president prodi to propose a withholding tax on savings income as a direct european tax. such a deduction would be well accepted by the public if it were exempt, that is, would protect the citizen from any additional tax. a withholding tax would avoid the enormous bureaucratic system of information exchange, but, above all, such a european tax could be levied on the assets of europeans in the united states, switzerland and other countries. this would increase the union's revenue and reduce the current national contributions even more. mr president, take up this idea, and you will really make europe move forward. (applause) i would like to thank
