mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i shall mention the part of europe's cultural heritage which is not on the unesco list and which is hardly on our own lists. it is the fact that almost every square metre of the european union is cultivated land, both agricultural land and forestry land. all of our current biodiversity is the result of over 10,000 years of struggle and toil. it is the fruit of a collaboration between man as farmer, nature, the climate and technology. this is what gives us the europe we know, the immense diversity and variety. i believe, of course, that cultural heritage is the responsibility of the individual buildings and nations, not primarily of the union. there is, however, one area in which the union has full power over cultural heritage, namely agricultural policy. if i had a choice, i would replace the current eu agricultural policy with a policy for cultural heritage and biodiversity. i would like to use subsidies to preserve mediterranean terraced farming, to preserve the biologically rich and stunningly beautiful mountain meadows that surround the rivers and lakes of the forested scandinavia. in short: a good cultural policy for europe would be a modified, modern and considerate agricultural policy.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled an opinion on the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the court's report on the ecb covers the period of transition from the emi to the present-day ecb, which is also the subject of the report. some of the problems identified in the report are specifically linked to the transition. criticism is directed at project follow-up, which focused more on the amount of money spent than on the actual progress of the work. however, the main criticism from both the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control concerns the extra bonus received by the bank's employees in addition to their normal bonus, which significantly exceeded both the established maximum levels and the budgeted costs. the methodology for deciding on this additional cost has also been criticised. the ecb has commented on this and, inter alia, stated that it has addressed the criticism of project management and that it has improved its procedures. the ecb also acknowledges that there is a lack of clarity about this additional bonus. we are also pleased that the ecb is now allowing olaf to carry out internal investigations, but it is very unfortunate that this is delayed. i am responsible for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on this matter, and our conclusions are simple and concise. first of all: although this was a difficult transitional period, there is a great deal of substance in the court's remarks on, for example, project management, which must be taken into account in the future. secondly: the type of bonus system discussed here is common in the banking world, but the levels that were in place here and the way the system was handled really deserve criticism. the most worrying thing is that the bank's press officer, in the swedish media, among others, is dismissing the criticism of both the court of auditors and the european parliament and claims that it is being laughed at in the banking world, which is serious. if the bank, already criticised for its lack of transparency, does not take the criticism seriously, there is a risk that confidence will be shaken. however, my committee believes that the criticism is not so serious that it needs to affect the confidence in the ecb or lead to a question of the efficiency of the institution. on the contrary, the bank deserves a lot of credit for the smooth transition from the emi to the ecb.
in writing. - (sv) i voted in favour of the report, particularly with regard to amendment no 1 tabled by mr van dam. it is important that the european parliament strongly deplores anti-semitic statements in palestinian school textbooks and urges the commission to ensure that subsidies to palestinian education do not directly or indirectly finance racism. the european union's contribution to palestinian education should, on the contrary, promote peace and reconciliation in the middle east. the european contribution must be directed as far as possible towards peace and reconciliation in the middle east. the european union is funding palestinian education, among other things. it is deeply regrettable and offensive that the textbooks in palestinian schools contain anti-semitic passages and compare israel, the only democracy in the middle east, to a phenomenon as repugnant as the nazi regime.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would first like to thank mrs oomen-ruijten for an excellent report. there have been many attempts in the past to use the problems of frontier workers as a sort of punching bag to harmonize the whole of tax legislation. but oomen-ruijten knows that frontier workers do not even make up half a percent of the workforce, that their problems are different in different border regions and that therefore different regional solutions are needed if the situation of frontier workers is to improve. i can speak from personal experience, for i have been commuting between denmark and sweden for 25 years. now that we have a bridge between copenhagen and malmö, everyone expects the border area to increase considerably and the two cities to become a metropolitan region. in 1997, on the initiative of denmark, the eu-supported principle of taxation in the country of work was introduced. this means that people can settle in malmö and have access to health care, childcare, education and everything else, while paying all the taxes to the danish state. this is completely unsustainable if we are to have a common öresund region. the alternative advocated by swedish politicians is the oecd model of border taxation, which advocates that tax be levied in the country of residence. but even such a principle is problematic, since the tax funds much more than the social welfare of families. in fact, in öresund, the best thing would be to pay the municipal tax where we live and the state tax where we work. i think that would put an end to tax planning and border scams. but even such a model would require some sort of fine-tuning to create full justice, because these are complicated things. it is therefore essential that solutions are designed in the regions concerned themselves, based on the basic principle that cross-border workers should pay tax where they have their tax-funded benefits. only then can we achieve long-term sustainable solutions. in the case of the sound, such a principle is absolutely necessary if it is to become a single region.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have written the report on the follow-up to the habitats directive and in the meantime i have had the clear impression that many member states did not really realise the obligations they had assumed when they adopted the directive. they didn't realize how far it was really going. this is one of the main reasons why things have gone so slowly. but just because it's slow doesn't mean it's not happening. there is a lot going on in this area, but not as much as we would like. when the directive is called into question, it is important to remember that what is happening is important, even if it is happening slowly. i also believe that this explains the lack of resources for information and dialogue with those directly affected by these protected areas, which also creates partly unnecessary conflicts in many areas. i think there's a lot to learn there. of course, the member states have a primary responsibility, both financially and legally, but it is important for the eu not only to legislate and withdraw funds - which is of course good - but also to spread the many good examples that exist and to use its own financial resources to encourage good development. the situation we are in is extremely serious, particularly because the depletion of biodiversity is happening very rapidly. nor can we see a reversal of the trend. the work must therefore continue and the directive cannot be amended or reviewed at this stage.
thank you for your answer. i am aware of this, of course, that there is no legislation in place today to deal with this. yet it is an example of an unusually cynical trade, exporting toxic waste that causes serious illnesses, not least among children in the area, to a country that is unable to deal with it. my question is: if the same thing were to happen today, that is, if attempts were made to export waste in this way, would the rules imply that such exports were totally prohibited?
i really appreciate the answer. it is clear that a great deal of progress has been made here. i have no intention whatsoever of taking away the responsibility of national or local authorities for these fire safety issues. of course, the principle of proximity applies here, as in other areas. the background to my question is that i have had a lot of conversations with firemen and their trade unions who are quite concerned. they are increasingly affected by transnational factors, just as the general public. firefighters are working with an increasing number of ships, vehicles and products from countries they do not know and with a level of fire safety they are not used to. people are traveling more and more, and naturally they want to feel safe, no matter what country they are in, when they take a ferry or travel through a tunnel or go to a disco. in this context, i think it is particularly important not only that each directorate addresses these fire safety issues, but also that there is real coordination in this strategic shared responsibility. i take the commissioner's announcement here that there is now such a coordinating working party as a step in that direction, and if so i would just like to thank him for his reply.
i would like to thank commissioner nielson for his reply and for the efforts being made for all the refugees in the maluku islands, where the largest group are de facto christians. this is a total of 300 000 refugees out of a population of 10 million. it is as if all the residents of sweden's third largest city, malmö, were refugees and displaced. i would also like to stress the seriousness of the situation of the christian minority in indonesia. on christmas eve, a large number of coordinated bombings took place against churches around the indonesian archipelago, including the cathedral in the capital jakarta. indonesia is the world's fourth-largest country in population and also the most populous muslim country. i assume you're following developments there very closely. my specific question is: is there a link with caritas, the lutheran world federation and the world council of churches to assist the christian minority displaced, especially in the maluku islands?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would just like to take this opportunity to ask commissioner wallström and others to speak in their respective mother tongues here in the house, in wallström's case swedish.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am prepared to support the amendments just proposed to amendment no 5, because the proposal with these amendments is much better than the original version. i therefore encourage members to accept the oral amendments tabled by mr liese from the ppe group.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i did, however, vote against amendment no 9 on the establishment of a european general security force. nevertheless, i voted in favour of the report as a whole because i think it is good that the european parliament once again states that the eu should give priority to non-military crisis management measures. this is an important observation which cannot be repeated enough. in this context, i note that the explanatory statement mentions the unanimous recommendation of the european parliament to set up a civilian peace corps. i think it's good that it's happening again. nor can this be repeated often enough. unfortunately, the vice-presidents finland, portugal and france chose to ignore the unanimous recommendation of the european parliament. against this background, i think it would be a brilliant opportunity for the swedish presidency to take an initiative. i have had the opportunity on several occasions to convey this directly to foreign minister lindh and prime minister persson. but unfortunately it seems that the swedish government has not really understood what a civilian peace corps means, and believes that other measures under way are the same as a civilian peace corps. it is regrettable that the report is not being studied properly and that the position of the european parliament is not being respected and that at least something is being done. i hope this is a misunderstanding between me and the swedish government. even though we've discussed this many times, misunderstandings can still occur. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to address a further appeal to the swedish government. now that you are president of the council, if you are serious about the eu not being a military superpower but a force for peace, you should immediately take action in accordance with the european parliament's recommendation on a civilian peace corps.
in writing. - (sv) the swedish social democrats welcome many of the measures proposed by the committee on agriculture and rural development to improve the situation of young farmers. however, we believe that eu agricultural aid should be greatly reduced and we therefore oppose the calls for an increase in it, as set out in parish in paragraphs 7, 11 and 14.
in writing. - (sv) the swedish christian democrats voted against the draft report because we consider it incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity, although the subject itself is important - the situation of young farmers. we are particularly opposed to point 10. he advocates the absurd idea that 'the european union should consider forcing member states to grant minimum set-up aid to young farmers'. we do not consider this to be a supranational issue.
in writing. - (da) the joint motion for a resolution contains many interesting ideas, but it does not measure up to the seriousness of the situation caused by nato for the civilian population of the balkans, the soldiers who were sent on mission there and their relatives. about 20 soldiers sent to the balkans have already died of leukemia and that number will rise. american soldiers in kfor were advised not to inhale depleted uranium. they were advised not to touch any object that may have been in contact with depleted uranium, were asked to leave areas that may have been contaminated by dust from weapons containing depleted uranium, and were also asked to wash their uniforms frequently. we don't think it's the custom of the u.s. military to issue such a warning without cause. a number of analyses have also shown the high toxicity of inhalation of depleted uranium. the consequences for the civilian population living in areas that have been subject to nato warfare have not yet been fully analysed. the future will tell us more. we therefore believe that it is not enough to simply re-analyze the consequences of the use of weapons containing depleted uranium. we already know enough. and we believe that the precautionary principle should be applied in all circumstances, including to persons who present themselves as candidates for international missions and to the civilian population living in war zones. these weapons must be included in the provisions of the geneva convention on chemical and nuclear weapons. we must stop all production of these weapons and destroy all stocks. we demand an immediate end to the use of weapons containing depleted uranium!
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the council! commissioner, what is it? the european union is a community of values, a community of democracy, humanism and human rights. this is the basis of our internal work, but also of our foreign policy. the eu has a good policy in many respects on human rights, but it lacks a coherent and consistent approach to how to work to promote them. the various institutions are not always coordinated and monitoring and analysis are lacking, which of course reduces our influence. the liberal group and i hope that before the geneva session we will have a strong and united europe, which will be able to push forward with vigour on a number of issues. it was nice to hear the ambitions of the swedish presidency here today. it is good that the council supports the resolution on the death penalty, on the rights of children and women. i would also like to call on the council, on behalf of the liberal group, to support the drafting of a protocol to the convention against torture and to support a new international convention on disappearances. the question of refugees must also be raised. human rights abuses are occurring in many countries. it must always be criticized, even when it occurs in the eu countries. in some countries, however, the situation is alarming. i would like to appeal to the council to try to get a resolution on china, where the abuses against chinese citizens are getting worse and worse - not least the escalating violence against falun gong practitioners. the president of the council mentioned iran and chechnya. i would like to add saudi arabia, colombia, indonesia and afghanistan. the situation in these countries is also very alarming. both the un and the eu are important voices in the international debate. many countries are listening and caring for signals coming from "brussels". we can use this position to actively fight for human rights. it requires consistency, courage and a more elaborate strategy. i hope that the swedish presidency can help formulate such a strategy, not only for geneva, but also for the future as a natural part of the eu's foreign policy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission! welcome to the prime minister's office. the next six months are gonna be exciting. important political tasks lie ahead, and i hope that a successful presidency will also have a positive impact on public opinion. it can show our compatriots at home that we can do good things together in the eu. it can show our european colleagues here that sweden is not opposed to but wants to participate constructively in the european construction. the liberal group fully supports sweden's decision to give priority to enlargement. no task is more important than the creation of a united europe, and the negotiations would really need to take a big step forward in the spring. we would also like to see a date for the first countries to join. another issue, on which the prime minister has the support of both the liberals and large sections of parliament, concerns transparency. the issue of public access to documents is an important democratic issue, it is central to citizens' trust in the whole eu project. in the autumn the council has been treading water on this issue working on article 255 and now we want to see results. we have high hopes for sweden and its role in promoting and vigorously defending the model that exists in sweden and the netherlands, among other countries. why not set a good example by opening up the meetings of the council of ministers? the question of democracy is also closely linked to what will happen after nice. the treaties are to be simplified. the eu's tasks and competences need to be more clearly defined. we liberals also believe that europeans need a common european constitution. citizens should be involved in the work on the nice outcome. it is up to sweden to begin what president prodi calls the open reflection phase. it would be interesting to hear the prime minister's views on this task, on the method and on these issues which will be dealt with before the belgian presidency takes over. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr president-in-office of the council! the swedish presidency's programme contains several points which we in the united left support. we believe that the priorities enlargement, environment and employment are both important and right. there are also other positive aspects of the programme which are worth highlighting. this includes action against trafficking in women and efforts to achieve lasting peace in palestine. as regards the enlargement negotiations, we believe it is crucial that the eu takes account of the special needs of the applicant countries and that they are not offered second-class eu membership. in relation to this objective, the outcome of nice is a failure. there was no real reform of the eu to facilitate enlargement. on the contrary, the decision-making process became more complex. it is also totally unacceptable that candidate countries such as the czech republic and hungary were directly discriminated against by receiving fewer seats in the european parliament than eu countries with the same population. this is an embarrassing mistake that must be corrected. my first question to the swedish presidency is therefore: are you prepared to address and correct this error in the accession treaties now to be negotiated? some eu countries want to exclude citizens of the future eu countries from the union's labour market for a long time. such discrimination is not acceptable. the key point is that everyone working in an eu country must respect the country's labour market agreements and laws so that free movement does not lead to dumping in terms of social conditions. a genuine left-wing policy must also put employment first in economic policy, instead of the dogmatic monetarism which today dominates the eu and monetary union. such a policy would also require democratic control of the european central bank. but for today's eu governments, regardless of their political colour, the priority has been to adapt to emu rather than to welfare and the fight against unemployment. this policy must be reviewed. there is a growing demand in various parts of the european union that unbridled capitalism must be managed by political decisions instead of the continued deregulation and free speculation we see today. one of the demands is a tax on foreign exchange transactions, a so-called tobin tax. several members of the swedish government have expressed their support for the idea. this is your golden opportunity to take the initiative during your presidency. my second question to the presidency is therefore: what initiatives for a tobin tax are you planning during your presidency? the most important environmental issue of the next six months will be the negotiations on the kyoto protocol to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it is extremely important to reach an agreement, but it is even more important to reach an agreement with substance. we believe that such an agreement must be based on real reductions in emissions, not on the rich countries which already emit the most being given the right to buy their way out through emissions trading. in the recently concluded settlement on the release of genetically modified crops, sweden's actions were a disappointment. sweden actively opposed public registers of gmo crops. we hope that sweden will recover and not act to lift the de facto moratorium on the area. the eu legislation in this area is still wholly inadequate from an environmental point of view. unfortunately, it seems that the swedish presidency is not willing to do anything to fundamentally change the eu's irresponsible refugee policy, which, with the schengen agreement as a tool, is creating new tragedies every day. on the contrary, we have seen how sweden accepts deterioration, most recently by tightening up the responsibility of the transporter. this means a kind of privatisation of the asylum procedure, whereby the fate of many asylum seekers is effectively decided by airport staff outside the european union. the biggest disappointment in sweden's actions is probably the militarisation of the eu. sweden is not only giving up its freedom of association and independent policy, but is also now to take active action to implement the militarisation of the eu. the eu army will also include turkish troops. the troops who can commit atrocities in their own country one day or occupy a neighbouring country can serve in the eu army the next. the eu has also been working with turkey to develop a common defence policy. my third question to göran persson is therefore: can you promise me that turkey will not have any such influence? i look forward to the answers to my three questions on the possibility of changing the discrimination of hungary and the czech republic under the nice treaty, on what you are going to do to make the tobin tax a reality and on how you see turkey's involvement and influence over the eu's military. with these words, the united left wishes the swedish presidency good luck. (applause from the centre)
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. it is so nice to see sweden as the eu presidency for the first time. we moderates have always fought for sweden in europe, but unfortunately we have to say that sweden is only responsible for half the presidency. the euro is the responsibility of belgium. in return, we hope that sweden, as the presidency, can achieve the necessary success in the enlargement process. the swedish presidency must give substance to the common security and defence policy. the pace of progress in this area is astonishing, but ambitions must now be given substance. the eu's relations with nato will be of paramount importance. to avoid confusion and to give the eu a complementary role to nato's military capability, commitment and the ability to solve unresolved issues are required. i therefore hope that the fact that nato is not even mentioned in the swedish programme is more of a coincidence than part of a strategy. the eu will have the most dynamic economy in the world in ten years' time. sweden is one of the countries that has come the furthest in the development of the new economy. we have the world's leading telecommunications and internet companies. the main reason for this is the deregulation that took place under the moderate government of 1991-1994. the telecommunications, postal, electricity and rail markets and the agricultural market were liberalised. göran persson was then mostly an opponent, but seems to have changed his mind. i am glad of this and hope that sweden, with the help of good experience, can promote such a development. the stockholm summit is a great opportunity! let's make this a deregulation summit for jobs and prosperity! the debate on globalisation and free trade has received greater attention. it is time to remove the last protectionist obstacles to the eu. the eu and the new us administration can work together to remove customs barriers for agricultural products and the textile industry. if anything, it's solidarity with the world's poor. unlike the swedish government's support party, the left party, i think it is gratifying that the swedish presidency has written in its programme that one of its main priorities will be to work for the eu to push the wto towards concrete liberalisations. this declaration is fully in line with sweden's tradition of free trade and openness to the outside world. however, sweden's trade minister pagrotsky has presented the so-called tobin tax as a 'sympathetic idea', and the prime minister has expressed sympathy for those who sabotaged the wto meeting in seattle by causing riots and rioting. the tobin tax is a threat to the world's poor. a tobin tax would only reduce the efficiency of the market. so i'd like to ask you: can the president-in-office of the council here in parliament make it clear whether the swedish presidency is in favour or against the introduction of a tobin tax?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and of the european parliament! i am pleased to welcome the prime minister of sweden, mr göran persson, to this parliament. i usually look forward to every presidency, but this presidency is something very special and i have particularly high hopes. i think the priorities that sweden has set are good the three e's. these are a limited number of areas, important areas, which are well in line with the eu agenda. the most important thing, of course, is enlargement. it is a historic task to unite east and west on our continent after years of cold war. i myself cannot see a greater and more important task to be involved in and to complete during my political life. sweden's ambitions to speed up the process in this area are welcome. i hope that the negotiations with the first countries can be concluded soon and that a target date for the first countries' accession can be set soon. i realize this is difficult. i also realise that it must be based on realism and that false hopes must not be created. but at the same time it is important for the people of the candidate countries not to despair and to see the light at the end of the tunnel. the second priority is jobs. sweden has been a driving force in terms of employment. in stockholm, the aim is to link employment, social policy, knowledge development and economic policy into a single policy. the method used is the open method of coordination. what we in parliament would like is to have a role in this method, as in legislation, because it is becoming increasingly important. i'd like to get some signals on this. the third priority concerns long-term sustainable development. it is about economic and social sustainability, but also environmental sustainability. the eu is quite successful in environmental policy. this is because those with the least ambition cannot block decisions, but it is also because parliament has a right to co-decide on environmental matters. what is missing from the strategy is the linking of environmental policy with the areas mentioned above. this should be done before the stockholm meeting and should be the result of the gothenburg meeting. the agreement reached in nice was important, not least for the enlargement process. however, not everything was good, such as the complicated rules for codecision. the way decisions were made behind closed doors was not good either. sweden has a transparent agenda and will pursue the issue of public documents. i hope that sweden will also take the lead in bringing about a more open decision-making process. i really hope that sweden can contribute in this area. let me also say something about crisis management. active crisis management and military non-alignment are not the same as passivity and have never meant passivity. active crisis management is about trying to prevent conflict. applying civilian crisis management and only ultimately resorting to military means is what sweden and finland have been leading the way for, which is good and which will be developed. there's a large majority for it. i welcome sweden as the presidency once again.
madam president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i also want to welcome the prime minister here! it's not quite like home in the reichstag but you get used to it pretty quickly. a lot of it revolves around the three e's. let me bring up a fourth e, which is for empathy. we were all deeply shocked when, after the christmas table, we could see people fighting for their lives off the coast of turkey to get to europe. many died in their struggle for a better life. i know that you, mr. prime minister, expressed your shock at the tremendous tragedy last year when 58 chinese were found dead in a container in dover. europe must not become a fortress. europe's asylum and refugee policy must be characterised by dignity and humanism - that was your message then. but what happened next? the european union is moving in the wrong direction. the council is proposing to tighten the penalties for trafficking in human beings. it is necessary, but the proposals are blinding. ideal forces churches, monasteries, asylum organisations and private networks assisting asylum seekers are threatened with punishment. these proposals must be stopped. in sweden, the church has been at peace since the middle ages. european leaders should reflect on why the smuggling of people into europe is increasing dramatically. europe is shutting down. the imposition of visas on 130 countries is not worthy of democratic europe. the basic principle must be that people have the right to travel freely within the eu. is the swedish presidency prepared to work towards a significant reduction in the number of visas? i am a strong supporter of the eu and have long called for common rules on asylum and refugee policy, but we liberals are not prepared to accept a fenced-in europe. here, mr prime minister, the new presidency can play an important role in promoting humanism and human dignity in the spirit of raoul wallenberg, whose memory you so honourably commemorated. i'm not going to let you down.
mr president, mr president of the council! i would like to congratulate prime minister persson on an ambitious and results-oriented programme. i hope that this will mean that the eu will take several steps forward, and that it will also strengthen the image of the eu in sweden. among the human issues, food safety is one of the most important today. i have noted that the prime minister has expressed his hesitation to eat meat, with regard to the handling of animals and meat products. even though i am an old farmer and a voracious meat eater, i can now understand the feelings of those who feel that way. parliament will be taking a position on some 80 directives on food safety. we are now beginning to consider the proposal for a european food authority. i'd like to know what the prime minister's position is on such an authority. in a single market, there must be common rules, common controls and, if the rules are not respected, a common system of sanctions. such a whole requires more than the proposed food authority. i believe that it must work in cooperation with the european veterinary office in dublin and with the commission. in the context of such a triangle, advice, risk assessment, risk management and sanctions could be managed within the framework of the existing regulatory framework and provide for a level playing field in food safety across the union. i hope that the presidency will support this idea.
mr president, representatives of the council and the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the fact that the swedish presidency has given high priority to the environment is extremely gratifying and absolutely necessary, and it is binding. to reverse the negative trend of habitat degradation, radical political decisions are needed a breakthrough. expectations are high given that council president persson has said that sustainable development on the eu agenda will lead to a green strategy for the 21st century. this means giving the economy a green playing field, integrating the environment into all other policies and introducing the necessary controls. it is therefore incomprehensible that the swedish government is acting against environmental taxes at eu level as minimum levels of carbon and energy taxes. why was this refused in nice? another highly topical issue is how the swedish presidency intends to tackle the task of nice of formulating a strategy for the political future of the eu. you, mr president-in-office, are against a federalist development of the european union, as are a large part of the population in the member states. what is your vision of the future of the sharing of competences and subsidiarity? how does the president-in-office of the council intend to maintain sweden's independence and neutrality, while the task of the presidency is to continue to build up the eu's military capabilities? finally, i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to welcome the swedish presidency and its programme, which contains many good priorities. like a number of speakers here today, i am concerned about the tendency to emphasize the intergovernmental model often and strongly at the expense of what we usually call the community approach, i.e. a model which gives the commission a stronger role and importance. i note the prime minister's assurances of transparency, whatever model is chosen, but the question goes beyond that, of course. the interesting remarks of commissioner prodi confirmed the challenges we are facing. i listened with interest to the prime minister's comments on the environment. they sound great, but there's a problem. most of today's environmental problems are directly linked to energy use, and the problem is that europe today lacks an energy policy. the member states have not even been able to agree on a common carbon tax. the swedish government has said that it wants such a levy, but only if it is decided by consensus, which is the same as no decision at all. for ten years, the question has been blocked by individual governments. what makes the prime minister and the government think it would unravel right now? without a carbon tax, the eu cannot meet the requirements of the kyoto protocol. the eu's strategy for sustainable development, which is to be discussed in gothenburg, will also be hampered if the eu does not take a united approach to energy issues. commissioner prodi raised the matter very well, and several other speakers have done so. the question is whether the swedish government is prepared to reconsider. finally, i would like to say that, like olle schmidt, i would have liked to see a fourth "e" empathy. it would not only concern refugee issues but also relations with the third world. the tobin tax has been mentioned here today, but i think it is impossible to implement. one way to raise more money for global problems would be to push all eu member states to meet the requirement of 0.7 percent of gdp in aid. besides, as carlsson said: lower the tariffs on developing countries' products! is the swedish government prepared to act in that spirit?
the swedish presidency! i am glad that the matter is being taken seriously and seriously by the council, because it is very, very serious. tens of thousands of women and girls are bought and sold in china every year, many to the west. the most popular areas are the poor provinces. in a new report, iom has found that western authorities have faced greater difficulties in accessing trafficking in women from china and that this trade will increase dramatically if strong action is not taken. the trafficking of women within china is also huge. as a direct result of the one-child policy and the preference of chinese families for sons, there are now 70 million unmarried men in china. the international coalition against trafficking in women reports that village councils buy hundreds of women, who are then distributed to the village's single men because they feel sorry for these men. it is very good that you have formed this council after the dover scandal. i wonder whether expert bodies such as the iom and the international coalition against trafficking in women will be part of this council? how is the council prepared to update the situation of trafficking in women in china in its contacts with china?
a large proportion of the prisoners in turkish prisons must be considered political prisoners. in turkey too, people are still being sentenced on political grounds. i myself was present at a trial on 21 december last year in djarbakir, in south-eastern turkey, where a syrian priest was threatened with three years in prison simply for speaking out about the genocide of armenians and assyrians in 1915. it was his only "crime", and for that he would be judged. will the council demand changes in the turkish penal code and take up concrete cases such as this, where people are being held in prison for political reasons?
no, i will not let the best be the enemy of the good. it is just that if you continue to go at the pace of the council of ministers, you will probably not be able to have public meetings for a hundred years. nine debates is not really very impressive, if i may say so. i think it is a democratic matter of course that citizens have the right to have access to their most important legislative assembly, which is largely the council of ministers of the european union. it is simply a basic requirement of democracy. if the council's rules of procedure prevent votes and even whole council meetings, where legislators are involved, from being open, then this antiquated rules of procedure should be changed immediately. is it not true that the swedish presidency is pushing the issue of transparency so hard, which i think is extremely important and positive?
it is a great pleasure and honour to welcome lars danielsson and the swedish presidency. never has the swedish language, the language of honour and heroes, flowed so well in this hall as it does today. thank you very much for your reply! i would like to raise a few follow-up questions here. it is a question of the de facto political union between belarus and poland and the extent to which the swedish presidency is also pressing russia, as part of a political union with belarus, to realise the democratic implications and the status that russia has in the world community by having a union with a country that can hardly be described as a democracy. you mentioned the presidential elections in belarus in 2001. but 20 per cent of the candidates in the so-called parliamentary elections last autumn - i was there myself as an observer - were eliminated. i would also like to highlight the value of the eu acting in such a way that there are no spill-over effects. we are seeing a worrying development, mr danielsson, in the neighbouring ukraine. we cannot underestimate the spread of what is happening in belarus, because let us never forget that the regime in minsk actually has blood on its hands!
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues in parliament and in the committee for the support i have received in the preparation of this report. the safety of our roads is something that concerns us all, whether we are road users ourselves or have lost a family member or friend to death or injury. road transport is the most common and fastest growing mode of travel and transport of goods and cargo, but also the most dangerous. every year, more than 42 000 people die on our european roads. that's over 800 people a week, and over 115 people today alone. road traffic accidents are the leading cause of death for children and young people - yes, for all people under 45 - in the eu today. millions of people are also seriously injured each year, many becoming disabled for life. it is a matter of great human suffering and great social cost. we would never tolerate these deaths in air or rail transport, where we have a very different safety concept. so to reduce road fatalities we need to get the same thinking in the road, because it is also a complex man/machine system that has to tolerate human error. the long-term goal should be that no one is killed or seriously injured. to achieve this, we need to take a holistic approach, with ultimate responsibility for the design of roads and the surrounding infrastructure. traffic drivers have a responsibility to follow the rules and laws that have been put in place. the commission communication sets out a priority of measures for the remainder of the programming period. i agree with the commission on the importance of several of these measures. this applies, for example, to the support for euroncap, information campaigns, legislation on speed controls in light trucks and, not least, legislation on safer car fronts. in my report i then focused on the next programming period, which should extend over a longer period proposed for the period 2002-2010 to allow for a more long-term approach. but if the commission is serious about its ambitions to reduce the number of road deaths, then the whole question of road safety must be given priority in its work, because this is where action is needed. first of all, a credible strategy for road deaths over the next ten years must contain concrete numerical targets for reducing the number of deaths. the committee proposes the objectives set by parliament three years ago. but eu-level objectives are not sufficiently concrete for the member states, where much of the work is done. therefore, each member state must itself draw up its own road safety programmes, which not all have today, with strategies for how to achieve the national targets. of course, this may vary from country to country, depending on tradition and culture. but then the commission should monitor how the states are complying with their strategies and participate in the exchange of experience and best practice. we also need european legislation in some important areas. alcohol kills about 9,000 people on the roads every year. the trend also shows that more and more young people are driving ratton-type vehicles. the introduction of a directive with a maximum blood alcohol level of 0.5 per mille is estimated to save about 1 000 lives. unfortunately, the commission has withdrawn its old proposal for a directive - the one which parliament supported in 1997 and which the committee still supports. the commission has said that the bottling plant is a matter of subsidiarity. but how can that be? it cannot be less dangerous to drive with alcohol in the blood in the united kingdom, italy, ireland and luxembourg, where the limit is 0.8 per mille, than it is in the rest of europe. we have expertise in the field of road safety in the eu. i think we should use it in the very areas where it has real effect, and it has in the area of alcohol and driving. i expect the council and the swedish presidency to take action here. i cannot see how we can be credible as european politicians if on the one hand we say that road safety is important and on the other hand we are not prepared to take important decisions. i understand that the commission has come today with a recommendation of 0.5 per mille but i must say that i think it is remarkable that it comes today, just when parliament is due to debate the matter and before parliament has voted. the commission should therefore have waited for parliament's debate. in addition to this and safer car fronts, the report contains a number of other important proposals for road safety measures. i will raise issues such as daylight saving, driver training and telematics systems. finally, a question which i consider to be of the utmost importance, but which unfortunately was not dealt with in committee, is the need for better working conditions for professional drivers. mr president, i would like to thank you. the european parliament has always been a force for improving road safety and we must continue to do so. the lives and health of many people, but especially young europeans, are at stake.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her great commitment to this issue. last year, almost 43 000 people were killed on the eu's road network. one of the main causes of this is the use of alcohol. you can never, ever get away from that. six years in the european parliament have given me great respect for the fact that we have very different views on many issues, but we should all agree that alcohol and driving should never, ever go together. yet, people are killed every day on the eu's road network because of this combination. we can also have very different views on whether we should have common rules within the eu or whether each country should solve this problem by itself. let me point out two things to anyone who is hesitant to ask this question: one is that no eu country would accept that another member state tolerated an airline captain flying a plane with 300 passengers, a sea captain responsible for the safety of 1,000 people or a train driver drinking alcohol before taking charge of his or her passengers. why, then, do we not make the same demands of the person who drives on our roads? the second point i want to make is that 95 percent of the traffic accidents that lead to someone dying actually happen on the roads. i only wish that we would take the problem of these 95% as seriously as we take the problem of the 5% of accidents that occur under the other transport laws. that is why i think the report is a good basis for further work from outside, and that is why i will also vote in favour of it tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is interesting to listen to the debate and it will be interesting to continue to work on road safety in parliament after this debate and after our decision tomorrow. i hear that most political groups think that regulation at european level on alcohol content is preferable because it is an exclusive competence which we can use under the treaty. i agree with stenmarck that we - and this is shown by the previous discussion - would never accept lower levels of security than we are able to create. but we do that on the roads, but of course not in the air. i think it is important to have such a regulation at european level in the case of alcohol. mr jarzembowski made some interesting points, but unlike mr jarzembowski i think that the possibility of directives, police checks and other possibilities should be used. we need to use every opportunity, and we will. we have not rejected a directive before. we can now take political initiative, and let us do it! secondly, mr bautista, as regards the green group's comments on black spots, i think it is important that we keep a close eye on what is happening. it would be interesting to see a report on the situation in the union. i am well aware that this is an important issue for cyclists and motorcyclists. finally, there is the question of education and the situation of children. as mrs schierhuber said, we need traffic education. we shall use this opportunity, along with all other measures at national, local, regional and european level. we have to work together.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the women's history encyclopedia, under the heading patriarchy, it is written: social systems based on hierarchical relationships between men, structured in such a way that decision-making processes are controlled from above and that women as a gender are given a subordinate position. the ideological justification is provided by a value system designed by male thinkers and based on men's understanding of reality. the material basis of the system is a division of labour by sex, which at all levels of the hierarchies assigns the unpaid or less paid tasks to women. one prerequisite for this is control of women's sexuality and fertility. this control in turn requires both structural violence against women and self-oppression by women". mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to return to the question of how we exercise self-repression. it is not only in this house that representatives of the epp in the first place - it is also happening far out in the social circles - discuss quotas and have a panic fear of gender quotas, for some reason unfounded to me. they say that women should be given credit for their work, but i would like to ask the question that obviously employers and top male politicians do not usually ask: what merits are we looking for? we know that women and men today are very much different parts of a whole in society. we in the united left have no problem whatsoever with supporting karamanou's report one hundred per cent. we're waiting for the ketchup effect. now we have waited 150 years, so we don't want to wait even two more years for something to happen.
mr president, i would like to thank you. half the sky is carried by women, a successful man once said. but women's voices are missing from key decisions and priorities. women, who make up more than half the world's population, are severely underrepresented in political, economic and social spheres. this is unacceptable in a democracy. nowhere is the gap between de jure and de facto equality greater than in decision-making. to achieve balance, a concrete action plan with a fixed timetable is required. an important part of such a plan is a benchmarking system. i am therefore glad that mr karamanou is calling for such a system. i propose that the eu's targets for women in decision-making be based on the average of the three most successful member states in each area, with annual reporting by the member states. women in particular are victims of human rights violations such as rape, sexual abuse, domestic violence and trafficking in women. men are underrepresented in the judicial and legislative bodies that judge these crimes. this leads to low priority; often the perpetrators are not prosecuted. the equal participation of women in decision-making is not only a requirement for social justice and democracy but also a must for the full use of women's experience and knowledge. the failure to exploit women's capacity in decision-making is an unacceptable waste. in sweden, the social democratic party has decided to introduce quotas, after many years of fighting to get more women into the party, and it is qualified women that are at issue. we have 50 percent women in the government and 44 percent women in the parliament. the only party that has openly opposed this is the conservative party, but all these women are qualified. women are not only to carry half the sky, but they are also to be responsible for decisions affecting our entire earth.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i want to thank you for a good report. the equal opportunities for men and women to participate in decision-making at all levels should be taken for granted by everyone, but unfortunately this is not the case. what can be done? we need greater equality in the home, access to good childcare, shared parenting, better incentives in education systems to break down traditional gender roles and flexible working hours to meet individual needs. we also need ways of working in politics, business and the world of organisations that are not based on men's priorities. although politics is still too much a man's world - in some countries more so than in others - the problems are even greater in business and trade union organisations. this is unacceptable and must be given increasing attention. gender equality is not a women's issue and can only be achieved through cooperation between both sexes. therefore, men must be involved in the work of gender equality in a completely different way than today. among other things, more men should be active in the work on gender equality in this parliament. we need more women in decision-making positions, but - and i agree with the theory of - not because they are of a certain gender, but because it is unacceptable that so much competence and experience is lost.
in writing. (sv) the most common cause of death for children and people under 45 in the eu is road accidents, making the problem a major public health issue. in sweden, the parliament unanimously set 'a zero-point perspective' as the general objective of road safety work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road users is not compromised. what is urgently needed to reduce the number of deaths from such accidents is a determined traffic monitoring which includes vehicle checks, speed monitoring with modern cameras, breathalysers, measurements with speedometers in case of suspicion of drug use and seat belt checks. in order to achieve the goal of zero fatalities, the proportion of public transport in relation to the number of vehicles on the road should be increased. we shall vote in favour of the report in the final vote, but we think that the efforts at harmonization it makes are excessive. the report is an initiative of parliament, the main thrust of which is to call for proposals to harmonise efforts to achieve road safety at eu level. we welcome the ambition to increase road safety, but the eu should not allocate resources to this objective, which can be better addressed at member state level.
in writing. - (sv) if we consider the principle of subsidiarity and democracy, i cannot imagine that the european union could have its own taxation. this is also true in the transport sector. the present resolution should, according to the calculations of the dutch government, increase the price of petrol by a further 15 per cent, the price of diesel by 21 per cent and, for medium and long distance train tickets, this increase could reach 50 per cent of the price. the consequences for the already affected sparsely populated regions of sweden, for example dalarna, which is experiencing considerable relocation and population decline, are obvious and particularly devastating. the rapporteur wants to introduce new national and european taxes, as well as taxes on roads, railways and airports, car insurance, heavy goods vehicles and buses, petrol and diesel. the resources thus released would go to the governments of the member states and thus be allocated to infrastructure investments, while the other part would be at the free disposal of the commission. if the resolution is to pass through the european parliament and the council of ministers, the eu will have to be given its own direct taxation rights, as in a real state. this is a development in which the christian democrats do not want to participate. i take very seriously the idea of increasing the cost of transporting people and goods even further. it is clear that this is hitting the sparsely populated regions hardest. it is also not in the european community's interest to make it more difficult and considerably more expensive for men to meet within and outside their own countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in fact, it is almost pointless to discuss how turkish prisons should be set up. in the last week, the turkish delegation to the european parliament has sent me a lot of material on the internal conditions in prisons. but i don't think the issues we're basically discussing are about good or bad prison management. the majority of prisoners in turkish prisons are convicted of political crimes. it is as a matter of course as political prisoners that they continue their political struggle. the turkish state's military intervention and repressive measures are therefore also part of a political struggle against the kurds and other minorities in turkish prisons. the situation is completely hopeless for turkish society and the turkish state. you have to choose a completely different path. the political parties and popular movements in turkey must be allowed to operate as freely as parties and movements in the rest of europe. the struggle between different forces must be fought by peaceful means. until that happens, i cannot see how turkey can have any chance of becoming a member of the european union. the turkish state must lead the way. it is necessary to accept that turkey is made up of different national and cultural groups which should have the same rights. language and culture must be accepted in schools, especially in the kurdish-dominated areas. i think the only thing that can be done is to grant these political prisoners amnesty and release them from prison. when that happens, you will have no more problems in turkish prisons than you have in english, german or french prisons.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for using the word solidarity in this report. this is precisely what cohesion policy and regional policy are all about. i would also like to ask very briefly whether the future debate will also include all the other policies of the union which are important for regional growth - education, research and social policy - in order to take advantage of the capacity of all people to contribute to the growth of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. this is about who are the winners in this settlement. in my view, the winners are the citizens of europe. when we have succeeded in implementing this reconciliation, we also have the opportunity to create a better environment in europe, and we all benefit as citizens. i see the environment as a major reason why we must tackle railway issues. we know that road transport is increasing at the expense of rail transport and has been for a long time. we must reverse that trend. it is also important that we are able to create opportunities for combined transport, so that for example on long distances both road and rail can be used. the high toll rates have also been a problem, hindering the development of more efficient rail transport. in addition, the organisational structure of the railway is also relevant. the result of the conciliation we have now reached, which is well worth congratulating, i consider to be good, even if it may sometimes seem that it could have gone further. as far as the marginal cost charge is concerned, i think it is a good compromise. this will also allow long-distance operators to compete. this is important in europe where there are long distances. the regulator who is involved in the settlement and who will monitor the system is also important because it is important to gain confidence in the railways and in the solution we have now found. so i think the result is good and i want to thank everyone involved. finally, i hope that we can all make this a reality.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. without for a moment diminishing the problems of bse, i would point out that in the current panic we must not forget all the other problems and risks and also the opportunities that exist in our food industry. i can give you an example. if the fat from ruminants is guaranteed protein free, it is therefore free from dioxins, quinolones, etc. today, there is a growing distrust of the european food industry, of agriculture, of our countryside and of our farmers. this is very dangerous for employment in europe and for the countryside, but also for our environment and our cultural heritage. but what if we could seize the opportunity? a wise old man once said that chaos is god's neighbor. let's use the chaos that exists today in a creative way, because today we have the support of our voters to open up and change the entire food sector!
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have just concluded a debate on the problems of bse - problems connected with food production where perhaps profit interests are very important and drive production very hard. we must remember that in a globalised food market, there must be political limits to how we produce, so that other social objectives are not forgotten. in the european union we have had rules against the use of hormones as growth promoters. we have had complaints about it, particularly from the united states, and a wto panel has been set up, saying that our evidence was insufficient. this was the background to the commission's evaluation of the hormones used. there are six of them. according to that evaluation, there were different levels of risk. all hormones carry certain risks; above all, they are carcinogenic. one hormone, estradiol 17-beta, was worse than the others. the commission is therefore now proposing a legislative amendment to prohibit completely the use of 17-β-oestradiol, both for feed and growth promotion purposes and for therapeutic purposes. for the other five hormones, it is proposed to extend the provisional, temporary ban in force. mr president, i would like to thank you. i and the committee on the environment fully support the commission's positions. it is very urgent to move forward with this. of course, it is also important to continue to examine the five other hormones to see how dangerous they may be, but it is positive that estradiol 17β is now definitively banned. so this study has given us a clearer argument, which hopefully means that those who have a different view will respect our position, our prohibition and the import ban currently in force. the arguments put forward are a little different and i would like to mention here some of the arguments which i have put forward in the report and which have been accepted by the committee on the environment. they may not be so heavy legally, but they are very heavy politically. on the one hand, there is the environmental argument. it's dangerous to use hormones in this way. in the united states, where they are used, they have been found to spread to the environment outside of animal production. on the one hand, it is for animal welfare reasons. we must consider whether it is reasonable to give animals supplementary feed which means that the animals grow abnormally. is this not a stress that brings us into conflict with animal welfare and the ambition to treat animals well? in general, in such contexts we should assess the ethical reasons. this is becoming increasingly important in a society where knowledge is increasing and where science is finding out more and more about different production methods. therefore, we must consider whether this is in accordance with the basic ethical rules that we humans have. the question is, does such a far-reaching change change the very conditions of life for humans or other biological creatures? we probably shouldn't have that right. mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the amendments that have been made. at the same time, i would like to stress that there is a crucial difference between the committee's and the commission's proposals. we in the committee do not want to apply the committee procedure proposed by the commission, but we want to return any amendments to parliament for approval, because there is so much politics - not just science - in this.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i naturally respect commissioner byrne's view, that is to say, a pre-committee procedure. but we are not trying to delay the procedure, but to enable us to have a debate here. this is because, as with many other questions, there is no scientific clarity on this point. yesterday i met in stockholm with a representative of the us department of agriculture, and he did not have the european view of science. we therefore need to debate in this house issues which are not only scientific but also concern ethical positions and the precautionary principle. it is not a question of delaying the procedure, but of having a more thorough political debate.
in writing. - (sv) in the context of the barcelona process, i think it is unfortunate that we have not paid sufficient attention to human rights and their application in practice. that is why i voted in favour of a number of amendments, in particular amendments nos 1 to 4. as a swedish christian democrat, i would like to express my concern about the living conditions of the coptic christian minorities in egypt, who are in practice treated as second-class citizens in their own country. unfortunately, the gradual marginalization of the christian community in lebanon continues. that is why i believe that the protection of ethnic, religious and cultural minorities in the mediterranean countries is a sine qua non for the continuation of the barcelona process, not only in the economic and financial fields.
- mr. speaker, i have to go. let me begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr van dam, on an excellent report and also expressing my gratitude to the commission for taking this important matter seriously. in recent years, the commission has put forward a number of proposals to improve maritime safety in various ways, following a number of accidents affecting both people and the environment. as i have had occasion to do in various contexts, one can lament that the eu often reacts afterwards rather than taking strong action in advance, but it is nevertheless good that it is taking strong action now. erika i has been followed by erika ii, and more is likely to come. in the months ahead of the session, parliament will have to take a position on a number of reports in this area. this report deals with the safety of loading and unloading of bulk carriers. there is no doubt that, at least in the last decade, bulk carriers have been particularly badly affected by accidents. there are a number of reports and statistics to support this, as the rapporteur has pointed out. more than half of all shipwrecks are the result of hull accidents. this type of accident is due to lack of maintenance, but to a large extent also to accidents occurring during loading and unloading. the united nations maritime body, imo, has been paying attention to this over the past decade. a special report has called on member states, classification societies and shipping companies to be vigilant in the event of errors in loading and unloading. a number of interim measures have been proposed. mr president, i would like to thank you. it is important to see this problem in a broader context. the number of transports is growing like an avalanche. increasingly, traffic is coming from eastern and central europe or from third countries. this makes the question of cargo insurance one of our most important issues. in this context, it is not only bulk transport that is concerned, but also other maritime transport and other transport. the lack of cargo insurance is a growing problem in maritime, road and rail transport today. the commission should therefore come back with proposals on how to solve these problems. at the same time, as this is not even largely a european problem but a global one, it is important that the commission pushes forward issues of this kind in the imo or in other international contexts. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would be grateful if the commissioner could say something about the initiatives which the commission intends to take in this important matter.
- mr. speaker, i have to go. in an ever-expanding internal market, differences in systems are becoming more and more of a problem. in the railway sector, the 15 eu member states have 4 different electrical systems and 15 different signalling systems. in 10 years' time, we may have 25 or 27 member states. the differences in systems will then probably be even greater. this is not a problem that will be solved simply because we come up with new and seemingly modern solutions. since we inaugurated europe's longest combined bridge and tunnel linking sweden and denmark this summer, one might think that the problem of lack of interoperability was also solved, but it is just the opposite. there is one signalling system in denmark and a completely different one in sweden. to make it really awkward, we have left-hand traffic on the rails in sweden, while the danes drive on the right. there are various reasons why there are actually such great differences between the countries of europe, and they all have to do with history. one is that european countries have electrified at slightly different times. another is deliberate - it would never be easy to drive a train straight into another country. in a europe today where we are talking instead about the four freedoms and where people, goods, capital and services are to be able to move freely across all borders, any obstacle becomes a problem, but obstacles of various kinds need to be removed. we need to harmonize and become, as they say, interoperable in different areas. the commission's initiative to introduce the same system in the railway sector is therefore an important step. the first step is obviously the transeuropean railway systems. it is important that this work be characterized by two insights. the first realization is that this actually has to take some time. it will cost considerable sums, especially if we eventually also have to move from the transeuropean networks to the other networks. in addition, we must, in the long term, do the same with the countries of central and eastern europe. the second insight is that solutions can be found, at least in the short term, without having the same system in all countries. the fact that trains can already cross borders in europe shows that this is possible, and it works because new technologies can also be built into the locomotive.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me begin by expressing my great disappointment that no minister from the presidency is present at this important debate. president of the commission! in the aftermath of nice, it is clear that the late compromise behind closed doors has its clear limitations. now it has woken up and promised a broad civil debate on europe's aims, future and tasks. that's good. the promise is the bond. but how? if europe's citizens are to be truly involved in the debate on the future of the common european project, they will also be able to influence it. is the commission prepared to take up proposals and ideas and also to put them into practice? if so, it means that the eu will change, open up and simplify. we know that many citizens want a clear constitution. when are they gonna get one? we also know that environmental issues, asylum and crossborder crime are important issues where citizens want the eu to be strong, powerful and active. are the commission and the council prepared to give the eu these tools? the results from nice are a bit of a deterrent. we know that there is a general irritation that the eu is getting involved in too many details. is the commission prepared to give substance to the famous principle of subsidiarity and to find a way of limiting the enormous amount of detailed regulation which characterizes us all in brussels and strasbourg? the citizens of the eu and the candidate countries, as well as national parliaments and, of course, this parliament too, must be given real influence over the method, the agenda and the decisions on the future of the eu. but how? that is the big question that is hanging in the air and that all colleagues have raised.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this directive is of great importance for growth and competitiveness in europe, but it is essential that its design does not make internet use more difficult and expensive. if we increase the cost of e-commerce and the cost of connectivity, europe will not be the most competitive economy in the world in ten years' time - the goal set in lisbon. if we in parliament are to build our confidence as european legislators, european legislation must be coherent; the e-commerce directive and this directive must be in line with each other. therefore, we should not change article 5 (1) or recital 33 copyright should not become a patent right because of the new technology. our goodwill towards copyright holders must not lead us to create regulations that restrict freedom of expression or restrict the free flow of information. the bar for shutting down an outsider's server has to be set very high. if we are going to monitor every bit of data that passes through the server every second, we are losing the foundation of what made the internet successful and what increased productivity in countries with high internet usage, namely, that everyone can participate and share the knowledge. i therefore ask you to support amendment no 4. our copyright laws must be created around the work and the artist entitled to the fee, not around the technical form. tv stations must choose how they present their programmes and the music they play. a copyright is needed for broadcasts in the air to be stored in electronic networks, otherwise the record companies can control the music offerings of radio and television companies. therefore, support amendments nos 31 and 32! copyright is not absolute; exceptions are needed. i therefore hope that the house will protect the exemptions for libraries and for the handicapped, so that we do not shut people out of information because it undermines democracy. finally, the commission we have a wipo position to defend and we shall vote consistently. i hope for a positive decision, because then we will take on an international responsibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the united left group we want to maintain the moratorium on the release of genetically modified crops for commercial cultivation. this position is not altered by the clear improvements brought about by directive 90/220 which we are now discussing. in the conciliation, we in the gue group, together with the greens, have fought for the improvements that have actually been made. this includes phasing out and antibiotic resistance markers, greater transparency and better risk assessments. we have also achieved at least half a victory in the area of public records of crops, but there is still a great deal of uncertainty about whether member states really see themselves obliged to make public records of all commercial crops. the council of ministers and the commission must clarify this. it is not good to adopt laws which are subject to different interpretations from the outset. we have not yet seen the new rules on labelling, traceability and liability that the commission has promised us. until we know what they look like and until they are fully implemented, we cannot consider lifting the moratorium. we do not believe that any member state should be forced to grow genetically modified crops even if the moratorium is lifted. the commission's approach of approving new crops before this regulatory framework is fully in place is, in our view, reprehensible and contrary to the precautionary principle. it is also strange that in this way parliament and the council of ministers are trying to pre-empt the debate. there is no demand for genetically modified food in the european union today. more and more areas of the world are abandoning gmo crops. there is a great deal of disagreement among scientists about the risks of gm crops. this applies both to the risk of spread to other species and to possible effects on human health. in such a situation, forcing new commercial crops is foolhardy and will lead to very serious contradictions. the recent scandals and problems with food policy should have taught us to proceed with caution. consumer interests and the precautionary principle must be allowed to take precedence over the commercial interests of a few large companies. mr president, i would like to thank you. we want to maintain the moratorium on commercial cultivation. the revision of this directive risks being taken as a revenue stream by the commission for the approval of new gmo crops for cultivation. we can't help that. although our group has been pushing in the compromise to make these rules as hard as possible, we cannot vote for the final result.
- mr. speaker, i have to go. after years of work on this report, we have now reached what i hope will be a final position in parliament. this is largely due to bowe. the rapporteur has done a fantastic job. i would like to congratulate him on his report. let us just remember that genetic engineering offers mankind unprecedented new possibilities. as always, however, new knowledge also brings new risks and increased responsibilities. it is important that we are aware of the risks and that we take our responsibility. this is true of environmental issues as well as ethical considerations. at the same time, it is important to state that when it comes to improving human health and ensuring the sustainable production of more food for a growing world population, we must not exclude any science. instead, we should use science. i would therefore simply ask that we now take a decision in accordance with the proposal before us today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his answer. i have a few questions. the more i read about this procedure, the more thoughtful i become. does the commissioner not think it is a little strange that representatives of the industry to be regulated, i.e. the industry producing children's products and toys, are themselves chairing the standardisation committees which, at national or other level, are to set up rules for the products placed on the market? does the commissioner not himself think it is strange that products that children come into contact with on the market are not tested, and that no one can really assess their safety? does the commissioner not think it a little strange that in the recent cases in question, for example chocolate eggs, powdered toys and non-flammable clothing, the assessment has consistently been made in favour of industry rather than in the interests of children? i think it is quite clear that there is a need for a new opportunity for standardisation based on objective criteria, rather than subjective criteria in the interests of industry.
you've got a lot to hear before your ears fall off! that was probably one of the most ridiculous escapades i've heard in a long time. kinnock says that we would know what was in the letter if we had been given access to it - it would be very good if we got it after the debate. i have asked kinnock's office to see the letter before the debate, but i was told that i might be able to see it after the debate. this only shows that kinnock has not understood a bit of what openness really means. kinnock seems to have learned nothing from the scandal of the commission of which he was a former member - the santer commission, which fell because it did not understand the link between transparency and corruption and fraud. if kinnock had learned anything from the commission he was on at the time, he would have understood. i am referring to the type of threatening letter that he apparently wrote and that gradin perceived to be, according to the statements she made to the swedish press. gradin must have read the letter when she made her statement. and i'm guessing asp read the letter when he made his statement. they knew what was in the letter, and they probably took it as a threat. it is an insult to this house to be so tail-wagging and shirking responsibility as kinnock is doing, and a disgrace to parliament.
i thank the commissioner for his answer. i'd like to ask you a question. where does commissioner kinnock think the criticism should be directed? so should it be directed against the disappearance of millions of dollars that should have gone to aid and the misuse of taxpayers' money, or should it be directed against those who express their disappointment at the failure to clarify these matters? i think the answer should be simple and i think the citizens of europe also think the answer is obvious. my second question is: if the commission wrote a letter to former commissioner gradin, you must have thought that she was attacking an individual in some way. i've seen the tv show myself, and i can tell you she didn't do it. she was completely loyal to the decisions taken in the commission. how could you believe that former commissioner gradin had criticised individuals? you must have thought that, because you wrote the letter.
thank you for your answer! kinnock refers to the letter to gradin and asp. we haven't read it directly, but now a copy of the letter to asp has been published in swedish media and it says after referring to the tv program i assume it is correctly translated that kinnock has written to asp: as you may know, this statement has been interpreted, rightly or wrongly, as a criticism of the commission as an institution. as a former commission employee, your statement raises the question of your obligations as a commission employee, since you will be subject to different terms and conditions of employment. clearly, this cannot be read as anything other than suggesting that asp has done something he should not have done and that he might even deserve a reprimand. so my question is: what is the legal basis for this letter? what legal rules exist that say that as a former head of government or as a commissioner you have no right to criticise the commission as an institution and that you even mention different terms and conditions of employment?
- i have a supplementary question concerning the commission's information office in stockholm and its former director, linda steneberg. as the commissioner is well aware, a criminal investigation into financial irregularities is under way at the commission's office in stockholm. the swedish police have begun questioning several of the employees and want to question steneberg, who has now been promoted and works at the commission in brussels. steneberg refuses to cooperate with the swedish police and to go to stockholm for questioning. is it not reasonable that you, as the responsible authorities, invite your employees, or even order them, to appear for questioning in order to investigate economic crime that has occurred within the commission's area of responsibility?
thank you, commissioner. unfortunately, we are also facing a glass ceiling for women in the eu institutions. i am grateful for and happy about the action plan with concrete objectives that you have set, but it also requires a fixed timetable. it's very gratifying that you want to work against discrimination. but now that the commission has once again appointed a man as director-general - this time at dg development - i wonder if the commission's objectives were just rhetoric. the eight men of the selection committee had to choose between a woman with extensive political and administrative experience at a high level and with solid experience abroad and a man with no political background, with less administrative experience and no experience abroad. i can only conclude that the male candidate has been quoted. in sweden, appeals to the labour market court are granted in cases involving substantially less flagrant discrimination than this. is the commission prepared to tear up its decision and give this post to the most competent candidate, or must it be appealed to the ec court of justice? is the commission prepared to continue to have at least 50% women on its selection committees, not 100% men?
mr president, i would like to thank you. at the first reading of this directive, parliament made very clear to the council and the commission its wish to replace the detailed legislation with general guidelines and to have a technical committee lay down the detailed specifications. however, the council completely overrides parliament in its common position. the council has in no way taken account of parliament's strong opposition to detailed legislation. the report is about more than buses. it is about how the eu should legislate. i am of course not opposed to ensuring that disabled people can board european buses. i'm against the approach. it is completely unreasonable for me as a politician to decide on the millimetre dimensions of handles and shelves in buses. in my country, the eu is often ridiculed for meddling and over-regulating. citizens are rightly questioning a fragmented and regulated eu. the credibility of members of parliament is called into question if we take decisions on matters we know nothing about. an example is annex 5 to the council's common position. i am not ashamed to say that i do not understand the formula for calculating the closing force of mechanically operated doors. i do not want to contribute to making a mockery of us and the eu. although i was not present at the first reading in 1988, i would remind this house that by a vote of 485 to 1 the general guidelines were chosen over the details. why should parliament change its mind today? for the moderates in sweden, this was an important issue in the 1999 elections. i am elected to fight political bigotry, and therefore i cannot vote for the council's common position. i therefore call on the whole parliament to vote in favour of amendment no 9 by my colleague mr lehne, which rejects the council's common position.
mr president, commissioner verheugen and mr danielsson, representing the presidency! turkey is the key to the establishment of good relations between the christian and muslim worlds. this fact can never be underestimated, not least in view of the fact that turkey is officially a secular state, while its citizens are overwhelmingly muslim. at the same time, modern-day turkey is also the second bible land where the apostle paul established his first christian congregations. my first question to the commissioner and to the council is therefore: in what way are you prepared to contribute to promoting religious dialogue between christians and muslims? my second question is: what is being done to strengthen religious freedom in turkey, throughout the middle east and in north africa? many of us wonder, not least the millions of coptic christians in egypt. i would like to mention a specific case in turkey. on 22 february, the trial of syrian christian priest yusuf akbulut, which began last december, will continue before the state security court in diyarbakir. the charges relate to section 312 of the criminal code, which was used to convict several politicians and writers, including yasar kemal. it forbids acts that "openly incite and stir up the people" to hostility and hatred by pointing to differences in religion, race, social class, or geographical area. what yusuf akbulut has done is to be quoted in the huriyet newspaper on 3 october 2000 as welcoming the recognition by the us congress of the 1915-1918 genocide of armenians. in this context, he added the fact that other christian peoples, such as assyrians/syriacs, were also murdered during the genocide. for these allegations, he faces several years in prison. the trial raises a number of issues ranging from the unreasonableness of such a diffuse and for freedom of expression and opinion particularly questionable paragraph as section 312 of the criminal code to the testimony and background of the prosecution. we in the christian-democratic parliamentary group of the epp-de are following the case. my third and final question to the commissioner and to the swedish presidency is as follows: are you prepared to keep a close eye on the yusuf akbulut case?
mr president, i would like to thank you. sometimes in the debate in my country it is said that the eu cannot be changed, but i think that the political agenda we are discussing at the moment shows that it can be changed. in 1995, when i was new to this parliament, we discussed almost exclusively stabilization policy. that area still exists, but the stabilisation policy has been supplemented by issues of growth, employment and social welfare. it is a changed reality that has made this possible, but it is also a matter of political priorities. this has been done via amsterdam and lisbon and is now continuing in stockholm. it is sometimes said that the issues we are dealing with today - employment and social welfare - are purely national. yes, for the most part, they are local, regional or national issues. but by setting common objectives to meet common challenges in the future, we are creating added value through european policy. we do this through pure legislation in areas such as health and safety at work and labour law, and through the open method of coordination, which means that we set common objectives on various issues. the process of monetary union and the objectives for inflation, interest rate developments and budget deficits have shown that this was a successful path. now we are doing the same thing with employment levels, exclusion and demographic issues. the lisbon process has three components: economic policy, employment policy and social policy/social cohesion. it is important to strike a balance between these three areas, all of which are equally important in the process. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bullmann, for pointing out in his report this balance and the importance of maintaining it. i would like to mention two points in particular: education policy in the knowledge society, which is extremely important, and the importance of tackling the demographic challenges already now, as has been said. in stockholm we'll focus, because we can't do everything at once. so let us focus on some key issues to start the process! indicators are not an end in themselves, but merely a means to achieve the objectives set. i would also like to emphasize the role of parliament. we have a role in legislation but we have no clear role in the open method of coordination. now that this is becoming more and more important, we must have an institutional agreement in which the role of parliament is strengthened. however, one ingredient is missing here - we mention it in our report and hope that the gothenburg summit will take up the same aspect - namely that ecological aspects should also be linked to this process and to these issues.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the lisbon meeting sent a clear message to the people of the eu: europe will become the most competitive economy in the world. this is a real ambition which will now be followed up effectively in stockholm. but it must not be as in so many other eu documents - words without concrete results. we need concrete proposals now! the 14 million unemployed have had enough of these grandiose resolutions. i must admit that we liberals are taking a somewhat wait-and-see attitude until we see what the results of the stockholm meeting will be. i would like to stress, however, that bullmann has done a good job, but the report has become very comprehensive and the number of proposals has caused the focus to be lost. we would have preferred a concentration and a clear list of priorities. we fully support the commission's criticism of the slow pace of reform in europe. in this context, the council in particular deserves criticism, but indeed parliament too. let me highlight some of the key measures to give europe a boost: further liberalisation is needed in the energy markets, the postal and telecommunications sectors - an area where danielsson can show its very best side. the commission has also proposed a reduction in taxes, particularly on labour, better conditions for smes and a more flexible labour market. in addition, we need to create a single financial market - an area where so far far far too little has happened - and a connected e-europe. furthermore, biotechnology needs to be stimulated. a more liberal europe means a more cohesive europe and a more secure social europe, which in turn means that people are more willing to take risks and to try new things. europe needs a policy where jobs are created and where citizens can determine their future through their own choices. it is good to set objectives and to have continuous reconciliation and relevant statistical indicators, but this is never a substitute for concrete proposals. as a swede, i would like to hope that the stockholm meeting will be the turning point, that decisions will be taken there that will pave the way for a competitive and liberal europe. finally, i would like to say to mr danielsson that a dynamic europe also requires a common currency. don't forget this one! more and more people are wondering when sweden will meet its commitments.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it sounds great that the eu wants to create the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based economy. but wouldn't it have sounded even better if the eu had wanted to create the greenest, most sustainable, fairest and most equal economy? however, this does not seem to be the case, especially in the report by gasòliba i böhm, which is a hymn to deregulation, privatisation and social cuts, i.e. those which create deep divisions and environmental damage. for example, my home country sweden has been a very egalitarian country. according to many reports since joining the eu, it is now the country where the divisions, contradictions and inequalities are growing the fastest. i would recommend to all market fundamentalists to read the following in today's guardian: california and new zealand that were once keen privatisers are now both turning their backs on deregulation. they are ready to renationalize. california is turning dramatically left. new zealand's experiment in market fundamentalism has failed. in this context, one may ask what the swedish presidency intends to do now. the swedish presidency was actually praised by the economist the other day for the egalitarian traditions in sweden. will you now continue the eu's erroneous path towards deregulation fundamentalism? or will you perhaps instead return to some kind of solidarity tradition and try to put the eu on a track that is more about environmental friendliness, sustainability and solidarity? it would be interesting to have an answer to that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i agree with mr bullmann when he stresses that there are a number of positive signals from the lisbon summit. i am thinking in particular of the call for full employment, but also of the emphasis on dynamic growth, innovation and lifelong learning. i wonder, however, how this relates to the maastricht model's emphasis on stability, inflation control, low-wage policies and social savings. is this policy of the swing lane abolished by the lisbon decisions? no, it's obviously not. the commission's recent action against ireland shows that the maastricht model is still alive. ireland is in many ways a model example of the plant protection policy that the lisbon summit is intended to promote, and which is now being punished by the eu. my conclusion is therefore that the eu has two conflicting economic models: one that is still a political reality and one that is about dreams and visions of what will come after this. there is a 'left-wing dream' and there is a 'right-wing dream', both of which seem to fit within this lisbon concept. i hope, of course, that the swedish government at the stockholm summit will emphasize and give priority to the left-wing model which stresses the importance of full employment and a socially responsible development policy and rejects the tendencies towards liberalization, deregulation, flexibilization, etc. but we'll see what happens when we get to stockholm.
in writing. - (sv) the swedish social democrats voted in favour of the proposal which was approved by the conciliation committee. it is not a question of taking a position for or against genetically modified organisms, but of regulating the reality in which we find ourselves. as politicians, it is our responsibility to ensure that this sector is regulated. if we do not adopt the new text, we will retain the old legislation, legislation which does not keep pace with the new developments in the field of genetic engineering. we are counting on the commission to come forward with a clear proposal on traceability and labelling, as promised. consumers must be able to decide whether they want to buy products containing gmos or not. we believe that it is essential to have clear rules on this matter.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the last time it did, in 1998, parliament rejected the common position. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. we in the ppe group stand by the same line. i am surprised that parliament is not now taking the same approach to this very complex, very technical and detailed proposal. i do not think it is fair to the voters that parliament is taking the time to decide whether the floor ratio should be 12 or 12.5%. that is why i think it was important to stick to the line adopted by parliament in 1998. i'm concerned that the other camp switched sides so quickly. this is something that i think the commission really needs to address if we are to have better ways of regulating in europe.
in writing. - (sv) we believe that the european parliament does not have the necessary competence to take a position on technical details of such a specific nature as in the present case, even though in principle we support the rules which follow from the proposal for a directive. that is why we support the amendment to reject the common position.
mr president, i would like to thank you. lipietz has written a very good report. it points to two of the real weaknesses of the european investment bank. firstly, the bank's information policy has been far too poor, and there has been a lack of transparency in the bank's decisions and work. secondly, the bank has had, as i see it, very bad environmental work. there are a number of examples of projects supported by the bank, both in the eu and in the applicant countries, which were not environmentally justifiable. in the area of environmental impact assessments, it is clear that the world bank, for example, is better than the european investment bank at publishing analyses before decisions are taken. in any case, we have recently seen a new attitude from the european investment bank. there has been more talk of dialogue, openness, environmental considerations and change. we hope that this will lead to a real reform of the bank's work - which we would therefore welcome - and to the full application of the aarhus convention on environmental transparency to the bank. in these words, i would like to say that we support this excellent report and the amendments tabled by the green group.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i can only note that the presidency which said it would give priority to employment is choosing to devote itself to other things than participating in our important debate on the issues to be raised at the stockholm summit, but i am all the more pleased that the commission is represented here.
mr president, may i then just add that i am extremely happy that i raised it, as this gave you the opportunity to provide a good excuse for the swedish presidency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the principles of mr bullmann's report are in line with the basic ideas of lisbon, which will be concretized at the stockholm summit in the spring. these principles are needed for europe's ambitions to become a world leader in economic development and growth, alongside the development of an ambitious social dimension. this balance is crucial not only for the success of our strategies but also for the eu to gain a stronger popular base and understanding, especially in the run-up to enlargement. on the one hand, the liberal right is now saying that the union is needed only to deregulate and open up markets, to create free trade, etc. on the other hand, the fight against unemployment and the development of social welfare would be exclusively national issues. the implication is that the eu should be able to erode labour law and the influence of the wage-earners, to dismantle welfare policy, etc., without the eu intervening. on the other hand, some gue politicians are now coming forward in this debate and attacking the bullmann report for being too much about deregulation and competition. i am therefore pleased that we have now found a broad consensus, excluding the extreme right and left, among those who recognise that the development of a social dimension is indeed an essential element of a successful economic policy. but this does not necessarily mean that the eu should take over the member states' powers to legislate, although this open method of coordination does not of course exclude legislation. the most important thing is that we develop common goals. these objectives must be both deregulation and liberalisation to a certain extent and common objectives to tackle the problems of unemployment and exclusion. few have addressed that aspect. but let us not forget how important this is in the context of enlargement, because then the meaning of the bullmann report will be even more decisive. the new member states particularly need a parallel development of growth, welfare, social rights and the influence of ordinary citizens and employees.
thank you for that answer, but my question was about the un mandate. but danielsson didn't say a word about it. instead, we were told that the eu should act in accordance with the principles of the un charter. but what about the warrant? do you need a warrant? we need a clear answer there. does the eu need a un mandate, i.e. a positive decision by the un, to intervene with its planned intervention force? that's my question.
i think that lars danielsson is playing a so-called dinkelspiel, i.e. he pretends to answer a question but avoids giving a real answer. we have asked a very clear question about whether an absolute mandate is required to take military action. it's not about the general principles. it's not about spirit or any higher values. it is the concrete fact that you have an explicit mandate from the un to take military action. there are actually two answers to that question: no, an absolute mandate is not required, although it may be desirable. or, yes, there is absolutely a need for such a mandate. i wish we could get either a yes or a no.
lars danielsson seems to be trying to incorporate an old swedish expression into the general eu jargon, because i don't think there is a really good translation of 'good morning, ax-head'. lars danielsson's answer to one question after another is similar to "good morning ax shaft". my question was also a yes-or-no question. i didn't ask for police officers and a host of other nice or less nice, sympathetic or less sympathetic, civil crisis management measures. i asked a question about the recommendation that this parliament has adopted and submitted to the council, which is to ask the council to initiate a pilot study of a possible european civil peace corps. will the council take any action on this recommendation? - yes or no? it's very easy to say yes or no. but i may have to take that as a no, just as i took the answer to the previous question as a no. in that case, this parliament, which has unanimously adopted this recommendation, must draw its conclusions from the way in which the council intends to cooperate with it.
unlike my other swedish colleagues who have spoken, i can take this as a yes. it is therefore appropriate to include turkey, while the discussion of the other aspects i raised in my question will be carried on elsewhere. i think it was particularly interesting to hear the council representative mention the close link between nato and eu military crisis management cooperation. it is not very common - especially not in our home country sweden - to make this connection between the eu and nato clear. sometimes not even in the military cooperation. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my strong irritation at the response that my swedish left-wing colleagues received after all, namely that it would be a small group discussing the un mandate, neutrality, non-alignment and turkish involvement in crisis management. i would not like to say that a majority of the swedish people is a small group. i also know that these issues are being discussed in all the member states.
i have a supplementary question concerning the forces which are part of the eu task force. it is a fact that british forces, among others, have depleted uranium weapons and that these weapons should also be used by the eu crisis management force. does the presidency have any opinion on the appropriateness of this?
the farmer asks an important question. i think we can be clear in our answer and possibly help danielsson a little. i heard the swedish prime minister in several interviews at christmas say that any change to the swedish constitution, in this case the swedish freedom of the press decree of 1766, would create a domestic political crisis. prime minister persson wants neither a domestic political crisis nor a change in the press freedom regulation. i would like mr danielsson to confirm that it is the prime minister's absolute intention that the swedish constitution will not be changed in any way.
i am well aware that the presidency does not control the agenda entirely on its own. however, initiatives may be taken in respect of work in progress. we can also put pressure on the commission to come forward with proposals more quickly and more effectively. i would like to see a review of the agricultural policy as such. export subsidies make the worst of transportation profitable. there are a host of other subsidy schemes that favour the mismanagement of resources and the neglect of animals. i know we have a flawed legislation but it is better to enforce compliance with laws that already exist than to wait for further new laws.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we all remember the ghastly container with 58 dead chinese found in dover last summer. recently, we saw drowned people wash ashore on the spanish coast. such tragedies occur every day all over europe, though not always in such spectacular forms. the leagues that profit from exploiting the desperate inclinations of people and smuggling them across borders under terrible security conditions must of course be punished. this is an inhuman activity. this requires joint action at eu level. but, mr president, the initiative proposed by france only addresses a small part of these extremely complex issues of migration and refugees. despite beautiful declarations of global responsibility, eu member states have not been able to agree on a common asylum and migration policy. the only thing they seem to agree on is repressive measures. the smugglers will of course be punished, and airlines that take on board people without valid documents will be fined. it is unreasonable to leave it to flight attendants to assess people's protection needs. you also have to ask why people would risk everything they own to be smuggled into an unknown country under uncertain conditions. is it really possible to enter the eu legally when we require visas from 130 countries? i don't think it was. the eu is building a fortress europe. the liberal group would have liked to see a more comprehensive programme on migration issues. this calls for a common policy. the report drawn up by the rapporteur is an important modification of the french proposal, as it attempts to take account of the nuances. the leagues will certainly be punished, but there are people who are hiding refugees for no profit, because they are convinced that the refugees are risking their lives and limbs if they are sent back to their home countries. relatives, friends or individual organizations should not be punished for this. you have to make a distinction. it is also important to stress that the purpose of this proposal for a directive is not to make it more difficult for people to seek asylum or immigrate to the european union. with the amendments tabled by the liberal group, we will support ceyhun's proposal in the hope that the council will meet and agree on a common european strategy on asylum and migration.
in writing. - (sv) the proposal for a council directive on assistance for illegal entry, movement and residence is another proposal in the legal arsenal of repressive measures. although member states have agreed to establish a common migration and asylum policy, every effort is being made to table proposals that are clearly aimed at making it more difficult for people to enter the european union, whether they are refugees or jobseekers. many europeans choose to hide people, often unknown to them, who have been smuggled or have managed to cross the eu border on their own. people who act, without any profit motive, for people who fear for their lives, should not be punished. this kind of humanitarian aid is perfectly legal today, in sweden among others, and should not be criminalised. europe needs a common migration and asylum policy with a humanistic approach. we have a duty to help people who come here seeking refuge, whether they are refugees from war zones or asylum seekers fleeing political repression. europe must also change its attitude to legal immigration and open its borders to third country nationals wishing to find work in the union. the basis is that people must be able to travel freely within the union without being stopped by a restrictive visa and work permit policy. a positive policy towards asylum seekers and immigrants will help us to tackle organised crime and the human tragedies of smugglers.
in writing. - (sv) as we are in favour of a common asylum policy at european level, we support the ambition to take common decisions to combat trafficking in human beings, provided that actions for humanitarian reasons are not penalized in any way. we do, however, believe that the framework decision on joint sanctions needs to be improved.
in writing. - (sv) we swedish social democrats believe that agricultural subsidies must be drastically reduced. we therefore oppose certain of the demands made in the korakas report. we welcome the commission's proposal to increase the fines for overproduction but we do not support the request of the committee on agriculture to maintain the compensation percentage (amendment no 12). we also oppose the request for the creation of new community aid for producer organizations in amendments nos 18 and 19.
in writing. - (sv) we social democrats believe that the union's aid to agriculture must be drastically reduced. we therefore oppose certain of the demands made in the izquierdo rojo report. we do not support the request of the committee on agriculture to extend for two years the economic aid for improving quality and marketing (amendments 14, 15 and 17). we also reject the proposal for the creation of a sustainable aid for the nuts and dried fruit sector through a new flat-rate aid per hectare to maintain the income of producers, as proposed in amendment no 22.
(sv) mr president, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, i would like to make a statement on our vote against the bullmann report in the final vote. i would like to say that mr bullmann and i had excellent cooperation in drawing up the report. however, there were some passages which we considered essential, in which we underlined that a meeting in stockholm should also discuss reforms important for an increase in european competitiveness. i am referring to greater liberalisation, a better business environment and better education and lifelong learning. this passage was rejected as a whole, considering its totality. that is why the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party voted against a joint motion. mr president, i would add that, having been a member of this house for only a year and a half, i have not yet learned all the customs of parliamentarians. perhaps i made a mistake in not having informed the group of the party of european socialists fully of our final choice. i would like to present my apologies, which i will also present directly to mr bullmann.
(sv) mr president, mr commissioner, i say the same thing as mr dupuis: yes, we are talking about human rights violations in china. unfortunately, the situation seems to be getting worse. increase our cases of torture. a penalty of death is constantly applied. freedom of expression is restricted. the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, to which i belong, is very concerned about this situation and calls on the commission and the council to increase pressure on china on human rights issues. we have great hopes that the swedish presidency will be able to reach a joint orientation at the geneva meeting within a month and there adopt a resolution on china. the possibility for each one to practice his religion is strictly limited to china. the catholics were systematically persecuted. the mesquitas of the são incendiadas. in tibet, the oppression of the tibetan people, particularly of many buddhists, continues. as tortures, as camps of rehabilitation and as prisons with unacceptable conditions, but do the exceptions, constitute a rule. we know today that there are in tibet at least 600 political prisoners, most of whom are monks and nuns. in the past year, we have been able to watch on television from around the world the continuing offensive launched by the chinese regime against the falun gong meditation movement since its ban in 1999. after these bans, tens of thousands of falun gong followers were arrested. at least 137 people died in the chaos. cases of torture, rape and ill-treatment are also reported by the thousands, while thousands of people remain in labour camps and an uncountable number have been sentenced to prison after summary trials. this is totally inadmissible. falun gong has been called the malignant sect, but we can imagine that a reason for the hatred of this peaceful movement resides in the threat it poses to the communist system, by bringing together so many people. however, the falun gong adherents are totally peaceful, with other political ambitions beyond that of being able to exercise their fundamental rights - rights enshrined in the chinese constitution and the international conventions to which china has subscribed. (applause from the audience)
(sv) mr president, we liberals will never accept the death penalty, no matter what part of the world we are in. even more revolting is the fact that journalists risk being sentenced to death for doing their job. the newspaper frontier post published a letter of recommendation in january that all of the paper's staff be arrested and charged with blasphemy. essas pessoas correm o risco they see mortas. the fundamentalists have set fire to the newspaper's offices in peshawar. this case illustrates the tragic situation in pakistan, where freedom of expression and human rights are not respected. the country is increasingly marginalized in the international community. as regards the islamic law, as well as the support of the military to the taliban regime, no afghanistan, suscitam inquietações. the situation in pakistan is very worrying. what does the commission intend to do to support groups active in the defence of human rights and the establishment of the principles of the rule of law?
(sv) madam president, the president of the commission has said that 'we are afraid of being able to punish even the best pupils in the classroom', as was the explanation on the serious representation of the eu in ireland. actually, this is a curious idea. serious but natural is the best student in the classroom as a model - when you're in school, you're like that. the irish economy is performing excellently. last year, growth was 10 per cent, unemployment was below 4 per cent and, in addition, the country had a considerable budget surplus. a poor man has been transformed into a celtic tiger. a warning from the eu to ireland is, in addition to being hasty, because it ignores a situation in the country. ireland is a small country dependent on external trade, whose economy is closely linked to that of britain and the united states. for this reason, the fall in the exchange rate of the euro affected irish inflation more than that of other eu countries. inflation fell from 6% in november to 3.9% in january, and all indications are that it will continue to decline. the netherlands currently has a higher rate of inflation. as the commissioner himself recognised, a policy for ireland does not jeopardise the functioning of the emu. it is a risk referred to in article 99 of the treaty and therefore an argument for the ground. ireland accounted for only 1% of the eu's total gdp. for ireland, the threat of inflation comes mainly from the outside, but the eu and the commission require internal measures to reduce inflation. the eu's attitude is politically insensitive and does not contribute to strengthening confidence in the european union and emu, mainly in the countries that are forging monetary cooperation. the hostess asked mr solbes mira: why are you not in ireland?
(sv) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a criticism of the union's economic policy in ireland is controversial. on my part, i believe that there are good reasons for supporting the recommendation of the ecofin council. as the guidelines of economic policy, around which all the eu member states are united, their objective is to prevent us from falling back into runaway inflation and our catastrophic budget deficits of the 1980s, which brought with them a backlash, a crisis and unemployment. ireland is the first member state to begin to seriously fall short of its inflation targets. having regard to the background to the crisis of the 1990s, the eu's reaction is understandable. the situation in europe is now improving. nobody is minimizing the fantastic growth of ireland. on the contrary, they constitute one of the best examples of how community cooperation can really contribute to significantly improving conditions in a member state. but we cannot forget the experience of the crisis of the 1990s. we cannot hesitate to believe that the fight for growth and full employment can and must be accompanied by a clear responsibility for price stability and budgetary equilibrium. why can't ireland go its own way? indeed, the problem is that we live in an internationalised and interdependent economy, in which the evolution of one country influences the evolution of another. while for just a small country to violate the directives that it itself has approved, a problem can seem small. but there are worrying signs that other countries may be doing so, which is why it is important to give the alert a flag. no meu país, a suécia, there are those who seek to use a criticism of ireland as an argument in anti-european propaganda. i'm not home! we are entering emu, we are losing our economic independence. the eu claims to have the power to decide on our taxes. i consider this propaganda to be absurd. the criticism of ireland is not that of the tax cut, but that the cut is taking place in a situation which could contribute to an overheating of the economy and to a reversal of inflation. a eu made a recommendation - there is no instrument of power to control ireland's fiscal and budgetary policy; that is, despite everything that the swedish opponents of the european union say.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the bse crisis shows, among other things, how quickly trust can disappear. it's going to take time to restore trust. one reason is that bse is only the latest to have occurred. it is also about long-distance transport of live animals and many other things that need to change as part of a change in the whole of the eu's common agricultural policy. for all these reasons, far-reaching measures will be required, which may have a very long-term impact and at several levels, if confidence is to be restored. on the whole, i think the commission's proposal is a good one. it's dramatic, but it's still sober and balanced. above all, it is necessary. the commission is talking about reducing production and thereby avoiding overproduction and meat mountains. it will require a transitional period, but the ambition is right and marks the beginning of acceptance of more market-based economic principles. the commission also talks of a review of the cap in 2002. i believe that this work should be able to start as early as this year. the precondition for the eu to come forward must be changes to the cap, although this will of course require a few years of transition. we can no longer produce for the meat mountains, but we must produce for consumption. the question is whether the commission's proposal is sufficient to restore confidence - probably not. that said, more will need to be done. i think that some of the points in the commission's proposal are not so good. this is the cost-sharing between the eu and the member states - currently 70% for the eu and 30% for the member states. this is part of the legal basis but it is something that must be changed as soon as possible. instead, the costs should be allocated on a 50-50 basis for at least two reasons. on the one hand, it is a question of budgetary reasons, to create the possibility of completing this whole operation. more than 40% of the eu budget is already spent on agriculture. it's not possible to go beyond this level. on the one hand, it is actually reasonable to have a different distribution. we have long known about the problems and their causes. yet, different countries have done very different things, and those who invested to avoid this crisis have borne the cost of it themselves. it is reasonable that those who have done little, and perhaps in some cases nothing at all, are now themselves bearing a greater share of the costs necessary to deal with this crisis.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me begin by saying that i am a little surprised to see this report in the plenary, because we in the committee on women's rights and gender equality first decided that it would only be adopted in committee. i hope, moreover, that the bureau and all the political groups are aware that the numbering of the recitals and paragraphs in the report differs between the language versions, which means that in any vote in plenary tomorrow it will be extremely difficult to know what we are voting on. as regards the content of the report itself, i do not think that the impact of globalisation on women should be dealt with in the light of the eu's needs for an ageing population. it's not human to start at that end. i welcome the personal views of mr avilés perea on the issue of refugees, asylum seekers and immigrants. i fully agree that they should enjoy human rights, but as far as the content of this report is concerned, it is not enough in relation to all the other texts. we cannot therefore vote in favour of the report in any vote in plenary tomorrow. i also appeal to avilés perea to withdraw the report and to bring forward the discussions and the result of the vote in the committee on women's rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to congratulate mr gemelli on his report. the commission's proposal represents an important step forward in presenting a more focused programme of development aid. the activities can only be effective if they are more concentrated and result-oriented. the six priority areas identified in the commission's proposal are well chosen. the resolution also contains a number of important additions and comments. parliament stresses the environmental aspects of all development more than the commission proposal does. it stressed, inter alia, that a large proportion of the rural poor majority is highly dependent on the natural resource base and that strengthening natural resources, forests, pastures, agricultural land and water resources must therefore be an important component of any poverty reduction strategy. another important comment from parliament concerns the commission's fifth priority, transport. the parliament's comment on this is important, namely that the focus should be broader and thus not just on roads but also include access to information and communication technologies and modern energy carriers. the poor countries were never given any real chance to participate seriously in the development of industrial society. the risk of large regions being left out of the new economy emerging around information and communication technologies is now high. helping to develop capacity around these technologies must be an important component of any development strategy. in general, there is a tendency to take technological issues too lightly in poverty work. i hope that the commission will take constructively to the various recommendations in the gemelli report, particularly on those points where we point out the need to look at the priorities more broadly. in any event, we shall have the opportunity to return to these questions in connection with the budget.
in writing. - (sv) the european union's strict visa policy is a major obstacle for people wishing to travel to europe. the tightening of visa requirements in recent years has inevitably led to an increase in human trafficking and so-called illegal immigration to the member states of the european union. people who have entered the european union through trafficking networks, or by any other means, have often experienced tragic situations along the way. once they arrive in the union, they are deprived of all rights and social protection. the list of countries whose nationals require visas to enter the eu includes more than 130 states. the countries which are exempt from this obligation are not even among the 50. this practice, which makes the requirement to have a visa the rule rather than the exception, is not worthy of a democratic europe. the basic rule must be that people who wish to enter the union have the right to do so freely, and not the other way around. europe must change its attitude towards immigration. in a few years' time, the union will face a pressing problem of labour shortages. it is therefore important that we accept and welcome people who are seeking a better future in the eu member states. a more generous visa policy is also a necessary condition for us to be able to pursue a common humane policy towards refugees and asylum seekers. a policy that accepts immigration can help us to tackle organized crime and the human tragedies caused by smuggling networks.
in writing. - (sv) i have today voted in favour of the haug report on the proposal for supplementary and amending budget no 1/2001 presented by the council, particularly in the wake of the bse crisis. this is despite the fact that the other swedish social democrats intend to vote against the proposal. this difference in attitude is not due to opposing positions on agricultural policy. on the contrary, we fully agree that radical reform is needed, including, in the long term, increased responsibility for the costs of bse and other crisis phenomena on the part of the member states. this is a view which is also reflected in the report. the reason for this difference in vote is rather that i was involved in the work on this matter in the committee on budgets and i see no other way than today's negative vote to influence agricultural policy. the additional budget does not mean that we will go beyond the budgetary framework, but that the margins provided for by respecting the ceiling of this budget will be reduced. it is also a matter on which parliament has no right to co-decide - which is itself questionable and is called into question in the report. a negative vote does not therefore result in any real change today, but only in a delay. the 'no' vote will therefore delay the provision of the resources needed to carry out the tests and eliminate the sick animals in the context of the bse crisis, as will the second part of this supplementary and amending budget, namely the extension to montenegro of the mandate of the european agency for reconstruction in kosovo/serbia. in its report parliament sets out specific requirements for a reform of the agricultural policy. these demands are in line with the view expressed by my social democratic and liberal colleagues and myself in an article in the göteborgs-posten last wednesday. parliament will now make a strong demand for this, and all swedish social democrats are very happy about that. so this is not a fundamental difference in our view of agricultural policy. on the contrary, i am in full sympathy with the action of my swedish social democratic colleagues. we simply have different views on the effect of voting against this particular report.
in writing. -the report discusses the budgetary consequences of the bse crisis. the tests, market interventions and the purchase and destruction scheme for untested bovine animals over 30 months old will be co-financed by the eu and the member states. the report rightly stresses the importance of reforming the common agricultural policy to achieve 'environmentally, economically and socially sustainable agriculture in the sense of agenda 21'. it also stressed the responsibility of the member states in dealing with the bse problem and the need to consider alternative financing methods in the event of an outbreak. it is high time to move away from agricultural production which is aimed solely at generating the greatest possible profits and which does not take sufficient account of the quality of the products and the interests of consumers. swedish agriculture has not yet been affected by the bse crisis, which is clearly due to sound animal husbandry and feeding practices. we believe that the member states must take on a larger share of this problem, which is largely due to shortcomings in national legislation. we therefore support amendments nos 4 and 5 tabled by mr mulder, which provide for an equal (50-50) distribution of the compensation paid to farmers in connection with the bse crisis between the eu and the member states. we also support amendments nos 1 to 3 tabled by mr graefe zu baringdorf, which stress the need for agricultural reforms and greater responsibility on the part of the individual member states. we support the report with these few reservations.
in writing. - (sv) we have voted against amendments nos 23, 25 and 53. our position towards the european union is fundamentally positive. as swedish liberals, we see european integration as an opportunity to solve problems that have an impact beyond our borders, such as those related to electronic networks and communication services. however, we also believe in the value of the principle of subsidiarity, which means that a decision should be taken at the level closest to the people it affects. we think it would be too far-fetched to ask member states to merge their national supervisory authorities and to require them to set up advisory offices for the public. it seems to us also quite un-liberal to force member states to make certain companies give up their rights of way to others at their request. we have voted against the three amendments in question, as we consider these to be matters of national concern.
- mr president and mr commissioner! europe has always been a continent of paradoxes, and it remains so today. as walls are being torn down in europe, new walls are being erected to prevent people from ever getting to europe. as the eu's external walls grow, more and more people are falling into the hands of unscrupulous people - middlemen who profit from the anxiety, fear and will of people fleeing to survive and provide a better future for their families. we know that hundreds of people have lost their lives in the last year alone in the hope of finding a better future on our continent - off the coast of turkey, in spanish waters and in dover; children clinging to buses and lorries. a few days ago, a young kurdish man was shot by police in a medium-sized town in sweden. we don't know exactly what happened. what we do know is that he had no valid id and was to be deported. mr president, i would like to thank you. asylum policy is a common concern for the eu, but the disparate, and in some cases desperate, proposals that the european parliament receives on its table threaten basic humanist values. it must be clear that any refugee who wants to stay in the eu must have his case thoroughly examined. european leaders should reflect on why the smuggling of people into europe is increasing so dramatically. the un secretary-general has been very clear in his criticism of the eu and the eu's obligation to protect the rights of asylum seekers. the imposition of visas on some 130 countries, commissioner, is not worthy of democratic europe. the basic principle must be that people have the right to travel freely within the eu. the commission, mr vitorino, should work to reduce the number of visas - that is what schengen cooperation should be about. mr president, i would like to thank you. we in the eldr group regret that no overall asylum strategy has been presented. we also regret that it is not linked to the labour market and immigration policy aspects. as things stand, there is no overview and no overall vision. tougher measures, threats of expulsion and visa requirements do not fundamentally solve these problems. i am a strong supporter of the eu and have long called for common rules on asylum and refugee policy, but we liberals are not prepared to accept a fenced-in europe. mr president, the iron curtain must not be replaced by a more modern version of electronics! (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. - as a swedish christian democrat, i voted against this report. any initiative to reform the common agricultural policy must be supported, even this modest proposal for a moderate reduction in sugar quotas put forward by the commission. we believe that the european union must open up its agricultural sector to the third world. the committee on agriculture is therefore wrong to advocate the continuation of the policy pursued by the european union, based on subsidies and customs barriers vis-à-vis the rest of the world.
in writing. - we voted against the kirkhope report on the liability of carriers and we call on france to withdraw its initiative on the harmonization of penalties for carriers bringing third-country nationals into the territory of the member states without the necessary documents. the council's initiative is one of those fragmented proposals whose sole purpose is to prevent people from travelling to the european union. we cannot accept that the responsibility for passport controls should be delegated to private transport companies. it is not wise for airport and port registration staff, air hostesses or drivers to take it upon themselves to decide who can enter the european union. this is precisely what will happen if the provisions of the schengen convention and the kirkhope proposal on sanctions are implemented. the right to asylum under the geneva convention must be a cornerstone, both in the context of schengen cooperation and in the common asylum and immigration policy of the european union. the sensitive sanctions proposed by the council represent a major threat to the right of asylum. the many people who are now fleeing war and oppression to the external border of the european union would never have been able to get here if new or stricter sanctions were imposed on the carriers. the european union must not build walls to the outside world to ensure freedom of movement within its territory. the european tradition of a generous refugee policy, in which the right to asylum is guaranteed, must characterize the continuing cooperation within the framework of schengen and the common policy on immigration and asylum.
in writing. -{sv) we swedish christian democrats, while recognising the problematic nature of the proposal, nevertheless choose to refer it to the council and the commission, asking them to draw up a proposal which includes more than a general solution concerning the european union's asylum policy. the current proposal is problematic because the examination of the asylum application risks being left to the carriers, without the carriers having the necessary knowledge or administrative competence. the right to claim asylum may therefore be impaired, especially given that refugees often have difficulties in obtaining a passport and a visa.
in writing. -(sv) a common policy on the temporary protection of expelled persons is positive, especially to ensure that all member states follow up and take care of people forced to flee war-torn regions. it is important, however, that this temporary protection, which is valid for a maximum of two years, does not imply a threat to the right to seek asylum. the right of asylum under the geneva convention, and therefore the right of permanent residence, must always be protected. provisional protection in the member states should not prevent individuals from applying for asylum upon arrival in the member state responsible or during the period of validity of such protection.
in writing. (sv) the european agricultural model is aimed at a common agricultural policy. but that does not mean that we accept the way the present agricultural policy has been structured, which is based on large-scale production and relies on substantial subsidies. we are also not in favour of protective tariffs on third world products. we are not going to vote for the amendments, but we are going to vote for the amendments which are not in the report. a new common agricultural policy should be based on rural development, organic farming and small-scale production. the agricultural sector must be inspired by the idea of long-term and sustainable development, for example in relation to the environment and the economy.
- mr president and mrs commissioner! korhola has done a very good job. it was a good proposal from the commission and it has improved since the environment committee went through it. i hope that after the plenary vote things will be even better. it is clear that the environmental problems of our time and of the future must be solved at all levels. some of the issues are european, some are national, but frankly, the vast majority will be local. it is part of democracy that our citizens have the opportunity to influence and, of course, the right to all the information necessary to be able to be citizens in their society. that is why we want amendments nos 6, 16 and 30 to be adopted in plenary tomorrow. the time limit for the authorities and companies to reply to questions is set at two weeks, in severe cases four weeks. this is in line with the position adopted by parliament in the so-called cashman report on transparency in the union. it is also important that amendments nos 19 and 20 are considered, which state that the public authorities have a responsibility to help the individual citizen or organisation to obtain information. they simply need help to find the right words, write the right words, speak the right words, and ask the right questions. this is a service of the government of a democratic country.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too join in the chorus of applause and on behalf of the united left group i say that we support the report and think that a good proposal has been better made. the right to access information on environmental matters is not only a right but also a matter of power. in many environmental issues, the public interest in a good environment is being pitted against strong economic private interests. the right to information is fundamental to the ability to form opinions and influence policy. that is why it is also a matter of democracy to have transparency in environmental matters in good time. the proposal we are now discussing is based largely on the aarhus convention, which we consider to be an unusually positive and forward-looking example of international cooperation in this area. the legislation we are now discussing does not cover the eu institutions, but these will be addressed in a later proposal. regarding the negotiations on transparency under article 255, it seems unfortunately that the result could be much worse than that set out in the aarhus convention on the environment, and such a result would in fact be completely unacceptable. furthermore, as regards the future rules, it is important that other institutions, such as the european investment bank, are also fully covered by the aarhus convention, as their activities have a fairly large impact on the environment in various ways.
i thank commissioner fischler for his reply and note that next year the place of birth and place of rearing will be indicated in respect of the origin of meat. will the name of the individual farm be given or just the place name? my question is based on the lack of confidence that more and more consumers have in the agricultural industry. the meat industry in europe is no less affected at the moment. it is therefore important that this knowledge of the origin of meat and other foodstuffs be as up-to-date as possible. let me tell commissioner fischler about a company in my hometown of mora in the dalarna. the company, called siljanet innovator is anders lindberg has introduced computer labelling, which is now being patented, and which is about traceability of meat back to the individual farm. this was updated at a conference in brussels on 6 march.
- thank you, mr. speaker. i would just like to inform commissioner verheugen that last autumn, in the morillon report on turkey, the european parliament called on turkey to withdraw its occupation forces from northern cyprus. this proposal of mine was adopted by the committee on foreign affairs and the plenary. i would ask commissioner verheugen to ask foreign minister cem for clarification on what he has said and what his intentions and those of the turkish government are. i consider the information which has come to light in connection with today's question to be very serious.
- mr. speaker, i have to go. i would like to begin by congratulating the president on having managed the opening of this debate so well that we actually have a document to discuss at all. but i would also like to express my disappointment that members of this parliament, especially members of the committee on the environment, do not have the capacity to accept the democratic process which began three years ago and which is now to be completed, but are trying at the last minute to destroy this document. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done, even though i have not always understood the path she has chosen, how she has come about and why the ambition seems to have fallen below the level it was at the beginning. we know that our use of fossil fuels is not a sustainable use of energy. that's something we all agree on, actually. we have known about this problem for at least 30 years and now it is time to do something about it. i've said it before and i'll say it again: parliament gave its support to an acidification strategy three years ago. now is the time to make this strategy a reality. that is what this directive is about. it is not just about acidification in sweden, norway or denmark. it is about half a million people who die every year in different parts of the world because of the use of fossil fuels. this is all those who suffer from chronic diseases, such as chronic bronchitis, due to the burning of fossil fuels. it is therefore not just a question of tightening up the limit values, but also of the health of our citizens. this is something that members should not forget. it is indeed possible to maintain a good level of energy service and at the same time work towards a better environment. we're on our way. we have the chance to set the pace if 314 members have the courage to take a stand tomorrow in favour of the more ambitious alternative. it is hardly surprising that the council is putting forward a compromise in a text which is more watered down than the one parliament approved at its first reading and had wished to see. it is also clear that we should make the same demands again at second reading in order to put pressure on the council and secure a good negotiating position in the inevitable conciliation. we know that we must act today if we are to see any results in the foreseeable future. we must dare to set strict limits for all types of installations, old and new, large and small. the council's limits do not go as far. the council seems to have lost faith that we can develop new technology at all. it is essential that the existing old installations are covered by this directive and that they are also subject to strict limit values. nothing would go as planned if too many exemptions were granted. nothing would remain of the high ambitions. therefore, small installations must also be covered by the directive. it is also important to point out that the directive sets a framework for the liberalisation of the energy market that we are witnessing today. without such a framework, the energy market in europe is in total anarchy. minimum environmental requirements are necessary to create common rules of the game. the requirements we now place on ourselves in the union are also requirements for future members of the union. today and tomorrow we have the opportunity not only to stop dangerous emissions but also to improve public health and lay the foundations for a successful enlargement of the union in the future.
thank you, mr. speaker. much of what was said in the previous debate is also highly relevant to this directive. these two documents form the basis of the acidification strategy we adopted three years ago. when measurements were taken monday in my own home, the acidity level was higher than it had been for a very long time. acidification is still a problem that we cannot help but notice. i would like to begin by thanking mr myller, who has done an incredibly solid job, and the colleagues in the environment committee, who have helped to bring us a proposal that now looks really good. the problem is that the path between committee and plenary in this parliament is sometimes quite bumpy. the closer we get to the day of decision, the more fearful some of us seem to become. once again we see the conflict between industry, employment and the environment emerge. many former environmentalists are turning into national and regional conservationists. they're embracing their old coal-fired power plants back home. the responsibility and the long-term vision of how we can have a good living environment also in the future are suddenly gone. at the first reading in parliament we supported the emission ceilings proposed by the commission. in this context it should also be noted that the ceilings and figures presented by the commission were in fact based on the countries' own reporting to the commission. there were no numbers that were plucked from the air or made up. some today seem to deny these figures. the figures were not overly optimistic and it also turned out, as myller said earlier, that the economic calculations were in fact in line with reality. when the council then comes forward with its views, it is not entirely unexpected that the result will be much smaller, very close to the figures of the gothenburg protocol. in this context, i would also like to recall that the commission - at least initially - refused to sign the gothenburg protocol because it considered it to be too weak and too low-ambition. i really hope that the commission will now show that it supports what parliament has expressed, particularly in the committee on the environment. if we take the council's line, we are in fact choosing a poorer health for our citizens in a situation where children and asthmatics are among the most vulnerable. we also choose to exceed the critical load levels on several hundred thousand more hectares of land. the list could go on and on. i hope that tomorrow we will have the courage to accept the proposals of the committee on the environment.
- mr. speaker, i have to go. the acidification of forests, soil and waterways is the single biggest environmental problem in my country. almost all acid rain comes from the combustion of fossil fuels used in energy production in other european countries. acidification is thus an 'imported' problem in our country. the natural environment in large parts of the northern eu has a low buffering capacity. therefore, insurance losses are very harmful to denmark, sweden and finland. great efforts are made annually to reduce the damage by calcifying lakes and streams. without having access to the exact figures, i would venture to say that over the years sweden has invested more in reducing acidification in economic terms than some member states have invested in reducing acidifying emissions. in some areas, the sensitivity to acid rain is extremely high, such as in southwestern sweden, in some mountainous areas of northern sweden and, not least, in southern norway. i am addressing all of you, members of parliament from different member states. to save valuable wildlife in these areas, we need your help. we appeal to you to put the matter in a european perspective and help us with the major acidification problems. reducing emissions from combustion is also a major health issue in several eu countries. many environmentalists in my country put their hopes in the european union. the un has proved to be a poor organization for pursuing european environmental problems. i believe that taxation is a national issue. national parliaments must choose the best path forward to meet the proposed national emission ceilings. i cannot therefore support the proposal for eu taxes on emissions. i would also like to comment on the unemployment argument. overall, good environmental and health conditions do not lead to unemployment. in the long run, efforts to improve the environment and health are a good investment. costs are reduced and the efforts are leading to an improved economic situation. the situation in russia today would be much better if it did not have to inherit the environmental disaster and the ill health that the collapsed communist system left behind. the council's common position is noteworthy. the council is not prepared to set a date for the entry into force of the measures. then we know how the directive will be complied with: it simply will not be followed at all. parliament should therefore re-adopt the level of ambition against acidification set by the commission in the so-called emission ceilings. with parliament and the commission on the same page on this issue, the council's position is almost embarrassing to the governments of the member states. finally, i would like to thank rapporteur myller for her efforts to achieve results in this important environmental field.
the rapporteur. - mr. speaker, i have to go. the commission's proposal for an action plan to increase energy efficiency is welcomed. at the same time, as rapporteur, i can say that the plan in its original form has many shortcomings. i hope that the proposals contained in parliament's resolution will be a valuable addition and that mr de palacio, as the commissioner responsible, will adopt our proposals. the examination of the action plan has made it very clear how energy saving is neglected as a policy area and in society in general. many people are probably aware that we need to change the focus of energy policy, that we need to reduce our heavy dependence on fossil fuels. however, when asked how this will be done, the answers are usually few. some are proposing renewable energy. very few would say that the transition would be achieved, not least through more efficient use of energy. the reason, of course, is that knowledge of what can be done is lacking. furthermore, there is a lack of sufficient economic incentives to facilitate investment in more efficient energy use. one big problem is that the energy savings are invisible. when we invest in a wind farm, it is clear to everyone what the money is used for. if we invest the same amount of money in energy conservation, it's perceived as much more diffuse. i therefore hope that the proposal to make all the eu institutions, that is to say the buildings in which we operate, symbols of good administration, will be adopted. we could start with this house. the potential for energy saving and household use is very large within the eu. in my view, the commission is being too cautious in its assessments. at least 30 percent of today's energy use could be saved by rational behavior. if the environmental costs of energy production and consumption were also included in prices, the potential would be even greater. it is against this background that the report calls for the internalization of environmental costs and the tackling of the problem through various types of taxes, not least a tonne-kilometre tax on heavy trucks and a tax on bunker oils. similarly, it is important to promote fiscal incentives for energy-efficient vehicles and buildings, or equipment that contributes to better housekeeping. there is much to be done in this area to increase incentives for energy conservation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is particularly important in the current situation of liberalisation of electricity markets. the liberalization is excellent, but it has led to such low prices that, for example, there have been problems with the backpressure. the report calls for a series of new directives to stimulate energy efficiency in various areas. this applies to the construction sector, cogeneration, various types of electronic equipment and the transport sector. another important proposal is to link intelligent energy use to the so-called lisbon process. the lisbon summit set the goal of making the eu the most competitive and productive economy in the world. such a programme is significantly delayed if environmental aspects are not covered. these could be subject to a requirement whereby energy efficiency increases annually within the union by, for example, 2,5%. even if environmental aspects were not taken into account, there is a strong case for putting energy efficiency on the agenda in the context of the lisbon process. a more efficient use of energy and natural resources would make an excellent contribution to the competitiveness and productivity of the union. mr president, i would like to thank you. we must not forget the outside world either. if these aspects are important to us, it is also important that they are brought to the fore in the discussions with the applicant countries in the enlargement process, which of course also applies to our assistance. in the course of the report, i have become aware of the importance of working longterm and systematically on these issues. that is why i have drawn up, together with three members, mcnally, turmes and van der laan, an initiative, 'energy intelligent europe', which has already received the support of many representatives from different political groups and member states. the aim is to stimulate the debate on energy efficiency in various ways and to propose initiatives that should be taken by the eu and the member states to make our use of energy more intelligent. it is therefore appropriate to return to these questions.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i've been looking at futurum, a website for debate and dialogue that just opened, and it's nice. this morning, 76 citizens from different countries had chosen to take part in the debate. of course, there could have been many more, but it's a good start. the question, of course, is what will happen to these debates. will they live their own lives until 2004, when the council will again be shutting itself behind closed doors in marathon negotiations on a new treaty? the foreign minister's speech indicated that this would not be the case. but it is important to tell citizens already now how these views will be taken up and channelled so that there is a real broad debate and not just empty words. i am sorry if we are too loud in this house, but this is really important for us across the group boundaries. the citizens, like us, would need to know how to channel this. will there be some kind of convention where we, as elected representatives at various levels, can really contribute to the formulation of the new treaty on the basis of these views?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have two points of view. the first concerns the method: i think it is of central importance that the power over the treaties is vested in the national parliaments. if power is transferred to the european parliament, this will be a decisive step towards turning the eu into a state, which i am opposed to. i am therefore also sceptical about a convention method. if such a method is to be used, it will be a convention of national parliaments to discuss the treaty. my second point is about the content. i believe that it is not enough to discuss the points raised in nice. the debate should instead focus on a democratic reform of the european union, which would bring full transparency to legislative work and reduce the number of officials, especially in the commission. today, there is a unique situation where civil servants have the decisive influence over the content of legislation, which is a democratic problem.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the parliament's representative in nice summed up the result as a disaster. it is impossible to understand how one can, with calculated courage, incorporate a future conflict between large and small countries in the treaty. it is even more difficult to understand how the council can refuse to introduce a reference to the rights to which all the member states have previously subscribed. how can the citizens understand that their elected representatives do not want to affirm the rights they are supposed to stand for politically? a weak treaty could be a danger for an enlarged eu where many different legal traditions are to be brought together. we want to see greater ambition in reaching decisions on who is to do what and who is to decide what and how, and on rights and democracy. the debate with citizens must be directed towards the key issues for the future of a more mobile europe. it takes a democratic convention, not just a website, to create an open debate and open decision-making. the presidency gives the impression of avoiding the core issues of the european debate. this is tantamount to evading its european leadership responsibility. take the opportunity to contribute to a democratic europe with a democratic european parliament, which i hope the presidency will respect.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the lisbon decisions were special: on the one hand, they were characterised by a clear right-wing economic policy of deregulation and privatisation. on the other hand, they were characterised by a left-wing policy of full employment, which thus became for the first time an official objective of the eu. the social agenda, the social community, the fight against poverty, lifelong learning for all, etc. were all natural elements of a left-wing policy. i was quite surprised at the time. i wondered how one could at the same time reconcile or balance, as lindh said, right-wing and left-wing politics. the picture is now clearer and i see that the disagreement on economic policy persists. right-wing politics are clearly dominating the stockholm summit. stability policy, liberalisation and deregulation of the internal market are at the heart of the debate. the social profile is very weak. the stockholm meeting was to focus on employment, but there are no proposals for any significant measures to tackle the high level of unemployment which currently affects 14-15 million people. they want to empower women to enter the workforce. it's good, it's good. it also wants to increase employment for the elderly, raise the retirement age, etc. however, the proposals are primarily aimed at increasing the employment rate, not at reducing unemployment. that's two different things. the 15 million unemployed in europe today, who are already in the labour force, do not benefit much from the addition of new groups to this labour force. my group considers this very serious. the swedish government should of course also be concerned, but unlike france or portugal, it has chosen not to create its own profile, but instead to implement as loyally as possible what the commission and the large member states want. when the swedish government once led the campaign for sweden to join the eu, it was said that the objective was not only to preserve swedish welfare but also to pursue a social welfare policy throughout europe together with other left-wing forces. now it's the other way around. the right-wing policies are being promoted within the eu and swedish welfare policy is in danger. this is happening despite the good economy, despite a majority of left-wing governments in the council and despite a left-wing majority in the swedish parliament. even under optimal conditions, we have not come close to a social europe in the last year. what if the economic situation deteriorates and we get more bourgeois governments in the council? the swedish presidency has run out of time. in conclusion, i wonder if there really is nothing that the swedish government could give priority to at the forthcoming employment summit for those who are unemployed here and now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the lisbon process is supposed to create the most dynamic economy in the world. open coordination has been chosen as the method, and i thought i would share my experience with you. sweden has participated in a number of summits and processes. since the essen summit in 1994, the importance of lower taxes on labour and greater flexibility has been discussed. in practice, sweden has done the opposite. as with its voluntary exclusion from the euro, it ignores what was agreed. instead, they increase the tax burden and continue to inhibit entrepreneurship. in stockholm, we should compare and learn from each other. what does it look like? yes, there is talk of an increased employment rate, but the truth in sweden is that despite three years of economic boom, more people are now out of the workforce than in the early 1990s, when we experienced the worst recession since world war ii. at the same time, the real unemployment is hidden in labour market policies and temporary mass education initiatives that do not lead to quality jobs. in addition, a shocking absence for sickness affects the statistics. if we add the latent jobseekers and the underemployed, unemployment in sweden is 17 per cent of the labour force compared with just over 5 per cent officially reported. the lisbon document talks a lot about knowledge. in terms of knowledge, sweden is in danger of melting down, despite all the talk about lifelong learning, because we are already missing the start. 34 percent of our high school kids are missing out on full grades in math, swedish and english. at the same time, the quality of education is being challenged as free schools and increased competition are leading to the opposite of the lisbon intentions. the swedish university is in crisis. sweden certainly has many people with a university degree, but it lacks people with real excellence. that's why the socialists are lowering taxes for wealthy immigrant specialists and raising taxes for resident low-educated swedes. talking and planning is one thing - especially if you get to do it in meeting rooms in other parts of europe - but implementing and changing requires more conviction. the commission is now calling for action, not least for national structural reforms and increased liberalisation at eu level. instead of making meaningless compromises and drawing up beautiful texts, i shall continue to criticise the european model, which has so far failed to create enough new jobs, but which condemns too many to longterm unemployment, exclusion, poverty and marginalisation.
in writing. - (sv) the council's compromise proposal is likely to result in an increase in emissions for the four forms of air pollution covered by the directive. for the european union as a whole, these ceilings are higher by 6% for sulphur dioxide, by 10% for nitrogen oxides, by 17% for volatile organic compounds and by 10% for ammonia. so far, no analysis has been made of the environmental consequences of the council's proposal, nor has there been any assessment of the cost or economic benefit. however, it is clear that this compromise will not reduce emissions sufficiently to meet the partial environmental target for 2010. the text of the so-called gothenburg protocol to the convention on transboundary air pollution was signed in december 1999, six months after the commission presented its proposal on national emission ceilings. all the member states have signed this protocol. in some cases, the ceilings indicated in the protocol are lower than those proposed by the commission. the council's compromise is therefore also, in some cases, below the values proposed by the commission and can therefore be said to be anything but ambitious. the levels of pollutants and critical levels of acidifying air pollution will therefore continue to be exceeded in large areas of the union, and a significant proportion of the eu population will remain exposed to pollution levels below who air quality guidelines. there is no justification for further lowering the level of eu ambition in this area by delaying the content of the directive as the council has just proposed. that is why we voted in favour of amendment no 10 and followed the line taken by the rapporteur.
in writing. (sv) we would like to point out that the reason why we voted in favour of the original text of the wijkman report a5-0054-2001 point 26 (viii) is not that we are in favour of common taxes at eu level, which are super-state. the reason is that we want the commission to take this text into account so that we can perhaps agree in the future on transnational solutions to the question of fuel taxation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by welcoming lindh to the house. the lisbon summit was held about a year ago. everyone, including myself, considers lisbon a great success. the meeting linked a number of policy areas economic policy and employment and social policy in an interdependent manner. we know that both employment and welfare depend on economic growth. but there's also a reverse addiction: the way we design welfare is important for employment and growth. social policy is a productive factor. a year ago the commission presented an excellent document to lisbon. this time there is also a document which is excellent in some respects, but i must still make some criticisms of the commission. i have no objection to the matter, but i find the document unbalanced. the prodi speech today was balanced, whereas the commission's documents are too focused on the economic aspects. i would like to see more room for employment and social policy. i hope that economic policy will not be allowed to dominate the stockholm meeting. it is important to address issues such as full employment, employment issues in general, good work including the working environment, skills development, employee influence the crucial importance of lifelong learning and demographic developments which should lead to older people also being able to develop and remain in their jobs. finally, the stockholm and gothenburg meetings should be linked and environmental issues should be integrated in this process with economic, employment and other policies in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is a strong concern within the peace movement that the enormously rapid build-up of military capacity will prevent the commitment to long-term conflict prevention measures, as was presented by some 40 peace organisations to the swedish and belgian presidencies last year. an example is the famous civilian peace corps, which parliament has called for on a number of occasions and which is mentioned in paragraph 5 of this motion for a resolution. i have long insisted on the swedish presidency that this matter should be raised, because i believe that it should be an important swedish profile issue. sweden wants to be a country of peace. for a relatively long time, i received negative answers. but now, suddenly, i received a letter from the president-in-office of the council before she left for murmansk. in it she writes: "i hereby pledge to you in writing that we will bring the peace corps into the picture once we have the structures in place". this is perhaps a somewhat unusual way for a president of the council to make a statement to parliament. i have to accept that, however, and therefore assume that something will happen with regard to the civilian peace corps. if not, i trust that my colleagues in parliament will take the matter seriously.
i thank the council for its reply! the decisions taken in the eu are very important to us as european citizens, because they affect our daily lives. it is therefore also important, as the council agrees, that citizens have greater opportunities to follow and evaluate the political debates, so that they can then go to the polls. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the elections. we're all agreed on that. now that my country, sweden, holds the presidency, this is of course even more offensive to me when the council meetings are held abroad. i am naturally pleased with the measures taken by the council and with the fact that the work of analysing how to increase transparency will continue. the internet and electronic means of communication can probably be used much more than they are today. the debates can be followed live not only on television but also via the internet. this is advice to the council.
the starting point for my question is article 45 of the schengen agreement. it says that anyone who enters a hotel in another schengen country must be able to identify themselves and prove their citizenship, but the only document that a swedish citizen has that proves citizenship is the passport. my question is whether there is a formal exception to article 45 of the schengen convention for sweden, because it must in such cases. my second question, if there is no such exception, is whether it is not ultimately the union authorities who decide what type of identity documents are accepted.
i must admit that the presidency's answer seems to be quite clear in itself. but i have been informed, partly through danish newspapers, partly through the swedish publication från riksdag & departement, and also through my membership of the sas euro bonus system, that passports will also be included after the entry into force of the schengen agreement. i therefore have a supplementary question. i assume that what the presidency has said here is correct, namely that no passport will be required: is the presidency prepared to ensure that information is disseminated widely and effectively? unfortunately, i am not sure that you will read all the minutes of the meetings here that passports will not be needed at all after the entry into force of the schengen agreement?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to warmly thank the former minister of foreign affairs of finland, mr väyrynen, for his meritorious work. the swedish presidency made a statement on the general situation in ukraine on 7 february this year, highlighting in particular the disappearance of journalist georgiy gongadze, whose fate concerns us all. ukraine will soon be a neighbour of the eu. the report by mr väyrynen deals with our immediate neighbourhood in the context of enlargement. in ukraine, moldova and belarus, we can observe a similar development with increased political unrest, anti-democratic tendencies, economic decline, increasingly authoritarian regimes and decreased political pluralism. as first vice-chairman of the european parliament's delegation to these three countries, i am concerned about the developments. i have had the opportunity to meet various representatives of the country, such as the young mayor natalia gnatyuk and the leader of the youth movement of the united greek catholic church andriy yaniv. their message to us was: don't forget the importance of ethics and religion to the development of our country! i would like to ask two questions of commissioner patten, who is doing a very meritorious job in foreign policy for the eu. firstly, i wonder how the tacis programme and the partnership agreement can help to strengthen ethical and moral principles, not least in the field of business, politics and civil society - something which is necessary in a country like ukraine. secondly, i wonder whether, given the common direction of developments in both countries, it is sustainable and reasonable in the long term to treat ukraine and belarus as differently as we do today. we can isolate one country, but not the other?
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as the rapporteur points out, biotechnology offers enormous positive possibilities. this is likely to be most evident in the medical field, but opportunities exist in a number of other fields as well. however, biotechnology also raises a number of new and very difficult questions to which we must respond. these include ethical issues in the medical field, environmental and consumer issues in the cultivation of genetically modified crops, and global justice issues in the area of patent law and the dominance of large multinational companies in the industry. these issues must be taken very seriously if a credible overall policy is to be established in this area. the committee on the environment's opinion points to a few key areas. patent law must respect the united nations convention on biological diversity, which establishes the right of developing countries - indeed, all countries - to their genetic resources. there must be a strong independent and open public research in this area, so that research is also carried out on what is not of immediate commercial interest, as well as on the problems and risks of the technologies. it is also about transparency in research. as regards the controversial issue of the cultivation of genetically modified crops, it must be noted that the adoption of directive 90/220/eec does not mean that there is sufficient legislation in this area today. we still lack the necessary rules on labelling, traceability and liability. such rules must be a prerequisite for considering the introduction of large-scale commercial cultivation of genetically modified crops. we also point to the risks of not respecting genetic secrecy and of abusing the possibility of taking genetic fingerprints, for example by denying people employment or insurance. that's how inequality in society increases. we believe that it is crucial that these types of problems are also highlighted, precisely in order to develop the positive potential of biotechnology.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. purvis' report is an excellent document. there are great opportunities in biotechnology, but there are also considerable risks. we live in a democracy. it means that the fears and the agonies of our citizens must be taken seriously. we can only do this with a lot of open information and debate. however, we must not let these fears of the risks of the new technology overshadow its potential opportunities for man and the environment. they say we can reduce pesticides in agriculture. i would rather draw attention to the possibility of using biotechnology to design new pesticides and chemicals that work where they are supposed to work and break down when they are supposed to break down. we must have a truthful and open attitude to both opportunities and difficulties. in the field of food and agricultural production, we must have a profound respect for the citizens' self-evident right to information about the food they eat. fundamental to a democracy is the informed free choice for which the citizen is responsible. i am very pleased that paragraph 62 is included in the report, which deals with the protection of the individual's privacy in relation to the use of genetic information. properly used, biotechnology can contribute to ecological, economic and social growth. used incorrectly, it can be dangerous, like any other technology.
in writing. (sv) we in the swedish social democrats believe that nuclear energy is not an ecologically sustainable source of energy. for this reason we cannot support the financing of new nuclear power stations as stated in paragraph 26. on the contrary, we support the aid to increase safety at the nuclear power stations that are currently in operation.
in writing. - (sv) we, the swedish christian democrats, would like to point out that we voted against the second and third parts in the split vote on paragraph 36. it states - wrongly - that 'europe now has a clear framework for the release of gmos, a framework which ensures a high degree of consumer and environmental protection' and - equally wrongly - 'so that the continuation of the de facto moratorium is no longer justified'. we also supported, among other things, amendment no 8, which warns against a development which would lead to individual farmers or entire nations becoming dependent on certain large companies because of genetic patents. the christian democrats would like to stress that personal genetic information is a matter of fundamental private rights and therefore must be protected so that no third party, such as an insurance company, an employer, public authorities, commercial interests and others, can access or use it. that is why we supported the amendments in this direction, in particular amendment no 27.
- mr. speaker, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen, the roth-behrendt report is excellent, and i welcome the limitation of animal testing. the commission is also proposing a total ban on the marketing of cosmetic products tested on animals, to take effect five years after the adoption of the directive, even if alternative test methods are not available. this line may risk temporarily limiting product development in the cosmetics industry, but it will greatly increase the incentives for the development of alternative testing methods that do not involve animal testing. the proposed animal testing ban is not enough, however, as the industry can simply place its experiments outside the eu. that is why the marketing ban is also necessary. such a ban prevents producers in non-eu countries from gaining market advantages by allowing them to continue using animal testing. on the contrary, competition would force the development of other methods. as a liberal, i have a strong sense of individual rights. i take the liberty of including the right of animals not to be subjected to unnecessary suffering. i also feel strongly about the consumer's free and informed choice. it is therefore important that citizens are given the opportunity to express their views on matters by means of detailed and accurate labelling. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to pay particular attention to amendment no 39 in this connection, which proposes that animal-tested products should be labelled with the words 'tested on animals'. with a marketing ban and a ban on animal testing and the other measures that the environment committee has advocated, i think we are making good progress, which i am glad of.
- mr. speaker, i have to go. our group thinks that roth-behrendt has done a very good job. we support all the important parts of the report. we think that this question, in view of the main issue of animal testing, has been dragged out far too long. this decision to effectively ban animal testing for cosmetics should have been taken years ago. it is not justifiable - ethically and in the eyes of the voters - to test cosmetics on animals. it's partly a luxury management. nor is there any doubt about the general opinion on this matter. i also believe that if we are to force manufacturers to find alternative methods - they have had many years to start using such methods - then they must know that there is a fixed number of years before the ban comes into force. we know that alternative methods are coming in many areas, and that there are thousands of ingredients to choose from in cases where these methods are not fully developed. we therefore support a comprehensive ban on these tests. however, for such a prohibition to be effective, it must be combined with a marketing ban. only a combination of marketing and testing bans can be really effective, which is why we naturally support it too. as a counter-argument, we are told that the wto could object to this. we believe that this is not at all certain and that it is simply not acceptable that the wto should prevent the introduction of stricter animal welfare and consumer protection rules. that is what we must fight for: the right to stricter, more progressive legislation! we therefore consider that this cannot be an argument for not pursuing this issue further. on the contrary, if the eu implements this ban, it may also open the door to a global development which means that more countries can follow and adopt the legislation we have and the methods we have developed for alternative testing procedures. we also support the other parts of the report. we think that greater consideration should be given to allergy sufferers. allergies are a major and growing problem affecting not only those who use the products directly but also those close to them, if these people are hypersensitive. we therefore support the tightening up of the use of allergenic substances. we also think it is reasonable to have strict rules on the list of ingredients and to indicate both the date of manufacture and the date of expiry. in these words, i would like to say that we in the gue/ngl group will vote in favour of all the main points in this report.
- mr. speaker, i have to go. pvc has unique qualities as a plastic. it's strong and durable, which makes it suitable for a number of applications. however, pvc also has other characteristics, namely that it creates an unusually hazardous waste. chlorine is one of the main components, lead and cadmium are used as stabilizers, and phthalates are added to soften the material. this creates very serious environmental problems when it comes to the waste stage. we welcome the fact that we have a green paper on this subject, but hope that it will soon be followed up by a more comprehensive legislative initiative. i believe that the sacconi report can make a very valuable contribution to such a legislative initiative by the commission. we are convinced that voluntary agreements are not enough, but that real legislation is needed. what should be done? first, the overall use must be reduced while substitutes are favoured. it's the only way to reduce the amount of waste. secondly, a system of responsibility for recycling and the costs of recycling must be introduced for manufacturers. dangerous stabilizers, heavy metals such as lead and cadmium, must be banned as soon as possible. it is important to combine this with a stop on imports in order to make the measure comprehensive. in this context, the question of voluntary agreements comes into play. a voluntary agreement cannot mean a stop to imports. this means that it is actually the most modern industry that benefits from having an import ban and legislation in this area, because they get protection for their more environmentally friendly production. it will be more efficient and more environmentally friendly than a voluntary agreement. we want the use of phthalates to be monitored and preferably reduced. this is particularly the case for use in certain medical devices. we also want to make recycling possible on a larger scale. but this requires a functioning labelling system, and it is only to recognize that the recycling we have today is largely a failure. on the whole, we are very satisfied with the report by mr sacconini. we have therefore tabled only a few amendments. we think it is reasonable to set a date for the phase-out of cadmium, as is done for lead. the reason for this is, as i mentioned earlier, that in the absence of legislation there is a risk that the measure will not be sufficiently effective if this is not combined with a stop on imports. it would therefore be consistent to mention a year for cadmium in the same way as lead is mentioned in the report. i have also written an amendment with the greens which deals with the substitution principle, i.e. the substitution of less dangerous substances for chemicals. i think it is important to inscribe it as one of the fundamental principles of the whole of the union's chemicals policy. it is therefore appropriate to mention the principle of compensation in this context as well. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good work he has done and for the good cooperation he has had with other groups.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i feel it is extremely important that budgetary guidelines address what is large and important. we have indeed committed ourselves to welcoming new member states in time for the 2004 european elections, and most of us would probably agree that this is our great and historic commitment, which should also be reflected in the budgetary guidelines. i think that this is not sufficiently clear in the part concerning the commission. our commitment to those countries now negotiating membership means that those who meet the copenhagen criteria in the negotiations are also entitled to become members. this is of course a matter of considerable uncertainty. we do not know which countries they will be, or how many there will be. we do not know, therefore, how many new languages will be added to the budgetary guidelines for the buitenweg programme, and how many new languages will be interpreted and translated into and from them. this point is worth emphasizing. this future is only three years ahead of us. the enlargement process is not only a commitment to be met by the candidate countries, but also a commitment to be met by the eu. in this context, i believe that two things must happen immediately. one is that the commission must come back with calculations of the budgetary effects of different variants of enlargement, depending on which countries, and how many countries, are involved. the second is that we can no longer put off the question of language, but must take it seriously. buitenweg has dealt with this issue in an excellent way in its guidelines. i assume that it will also be powered by this during the year.
in writing. - (sv) in paragraph 25 of the resolution, where e-learning is mentioned, the commission is invited to 'examine ways of establishing an appropriate legal framework to complement and strengthen the actions undertaken by the member states by providing them with real european added value'. in view of the opinion of the swedish christian democrats on the principle of subsidiarity guaranteed in the maastricht and amsterdam treaties and out of concern for that principle, i voted against this invitation. legislation on education matters, in this case e-learning, cannot be the responsibility of the european union. the reason for this request for the extension of the legislative powers of the european union by a "european added value" is a traditional way of trying to gain influence to obtain more powers and more legislative functions for the european union, it is a move towards more centralisation. this is not a valid argument. the union's task is to limit its activities and concentrate on its areas of preference.
i thank the commissioner for his answer. if i understand correctly, a swede does not need to carry an identity document proving that he is a swede, even though article 45 states that it must be checked whether the traveller is a citizen of a schengen country. consequently, swedish citizens are today exempted from this rule when travelling in other nordic countries. is this for real?
i hope that commissioner vitorino does not feel burdened by too many questions about the schengen agreement and the nordic passport, but i would like to follow up on what has been said by my colleagues sjöstedt and krarup. swedish identity documents do not indicate citizenship, but have nevertheless been used within the nordic countries. does the schengen agreement mean that swedish identity documents will no longer be relevant and can be used within the schengen area? in that case, this represents a change and a deterioration for swedish citizens. is that understood correctly? i can't interpret vitorino's answer any other way.
i have to thank commissioner patten for that clear answer. in another, more informal nordic context, i have had the privilege of raising this serious issue with the commissioner. it is my view that the commission has received assurances from the highest russian level that no deployment has taken place. i would nevertheless like to follow up with two questions: how did this information reach the media with such high credibility, and was this at all a subject of discussion with president putin at the stockholm european council?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a good report and for the sensitivity she has shown in taking the arguments of the various political groups and listening to the disability movement and disability organisations. she has done an exemplary job as rapporteur. people with disabilities are discriminated against today. the free movement, which is the foundation of our cooperation, is much more difficult to exploit for people with disabilities when it comes to seeking employment and, for young people, studying in other countries. the discrimination in this area is clear. the same applies to the labour market. the unemployment rate among disabled people is very high. the access to information that we often discuss today is also more difficult for people with disabilities to achieve. we need to take an offensive stance. all of this is preventable. disability is not a static phenomenon. it's the environment that's broken, and it can be changed. today, for example, we have sign language interpretation. we can design buildings differently, we can design workplaces differently and make them more accessible to people with disabilities. this is possible because it is about changing the environment. we can change. moreover, the change must affect all policy areas. it is not just social policy, transport policy or labour market policy that can change, but all policy areas. in the labour market, where unemployment is about three times higher for disabled people, it is important that when creating indicators to improve the chances of different groups of people getting work - the elderly, women and others - we also include people with disabilities. many have said that a key element of integration is changing attitudes in society. i come from the school world myself. it is important that people with disabilities are not hidden away, but included in the school world so that everyone can receive education and training on equal terms and so that we see that people with different conditions can work together. it's very important to change attitudes. finally, it is important to integrate disability organisations and voluntary organisations into the work. let the year of disability be the starting point for an offensive in the formulation of new directives and a new action programme, so that we can have a europe without barriers and with equal opportunities for all.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is a pleasure to welcome the prime minister back and to see that he is accompanied by several of the swedish ministers. in swedish media, the prime minister has summed up the stockholm meeting as a european summit at its best. given the meagre result, one wonders what a failed summit looks like. for those of us who read the papers and the conclusions, it's unclear if anything else happened other than putin hosting the summit. the final document, which is 15 pages long, describes mainly what it intends to decide at a later date. it was decided to launch a competition to determine which country has the most children in day-care centres and to complete projects already started by the commission. most obvious, however, is what was not accomplished. no concrete dates for the liberalisation of the electricity and gas markets in the union were agreed. the swedish presidency has given up completely on the question of liberalizing the postal services and, as we know, no community patent has been granted. football was played for a longer time than the issue most affecting europeans today, namely the agricultural crisis, was discussed. i think that the council should evaluate and consider the role of these summits. will they play an important institutional role in resolving and deciding important issues that have become stuck in other councils, or will they develop into a jigsaw with increasingly meager and more muted conclusions? it is worrying that the lisbon process, which got off to a good start a year ago, is now being watered down. the forthcoming spanish presidency has an important task to ensure that lisbon will be something concrete and not just words on paper. the situation is exactly as the president-in-office of the council admits: the work is not proceeding fast enough to maintain the pace of change. when you listen to baron crespo, you understand that the social democrats in europe are not having it so easy at the moment. when the european economy is slowing down, there is no reason to stop reform, but rather to show more action to achieve competitiveness and increased prosperity. i have two questions for the president-in-office of the council. one point in the conclusions deals with the forthcoming wto negotiations, and i can agree with what is being said. i would therefore like to repeat the question which was dismissed last time as too national and which concerns the tobin tax. does the presidency have any views on the tobin tax, or should we interpret the swedish ministers' unruly dealings with the attac movement as a position in favour of an international tax on foreign exchange transactions? my second question concerns enlargement. it is said that the enlargement negotiations are moving forward and are one of the most urgent priorities of the presidency. will you succeed in your goals? what is meant by a 'political breakthrough' in the negotiations? can the presidency present the eu's position at the gothenburg summit on the remaining sensitive and difficult areas so that the negotiations and the conclusion of the negotiations will be possible for the most successful candidate countries in 2001?
mr president, i would like to thank you. in my view, the stockholm summit was focused on developing the internal market, that is, on the economic liberalisation mentioned earlier. social issues, especially unemployment, remained almost untouched. the european union is also committed to the development of a european employment strategy. however, there are two different forms of employment policy. the first is to increase the supply of labour by increasing the labour force, i.e. by increasing the employment rate, the second is to reduce the number of unemployed. these are two different policy areas. in stockholm you devoted all your efforts to expanding the workforce by bringing new groups into the labour market. this would be achieved by reducing the number of women who are pregnant at home in europe and by keeping older people in the labour market for a few more years. i am not in any way opposed to measures which increase the supply of labour, but no one can claim that they are of direct benefit to the unemployed. on the contrary, the 14-15 million unemployed are facing increased competition for jobs by the emergence of new groups, while their wage situation is being squeezed. it would have been possible to combine these two areas of employment policy, in which the aim is to increase overall employment and combat unemployment, by also proposing a reduction in the normal working time to 35 hours per week, or six hours per day. it has been argued that a reduction in working hours does not lead to new jobs, but this is not the case for low-wage jobs where there is a very clear link between reduced working hours and more jobs. furthermore, a reduction in working hours is a pleasure for all those who are already employed and makes it easier to combine work and family life. i am actually calling for action on the unemployed. it is not too late, as there are still a few months left of the swedish presidency. i would like to call for measures to be taken specifically for the unemployed and to help them here and now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating the president-in-office of the council on the success of the stockholm summit. i think more swedes than i were happy that sweden was finally able to host the eu leaders. in stockholm, the aim was to create a competitive europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. no, unfortunately not to the extent required, as the president-in-office of the council has also admitted. the reform of the eu is too slow. it was a failure that stockholm could not agree on a timetable for deregulating the energy markets. however, they did manage to agree on the creation of a common financial market, which was long awaited. we liberals now assume that the council is prepared to act so that we can get a solution which can also be accepted by parliament. it is a question, mr president-in-office, of democratic anchoring and openness. the overall vision of the swedish presidency is to bring the eu closer to its citizens. this is a very good ambition. i am therefore surprised that the first step towards a thorough reform of the agricultural and food policy was not taken at the stockholm meeting, since this is perhaps the most discussed issue at breakfast tables around europe, including - as i understand it - at the prime minister's house. finally, i would point out that the swedish presidency is now at half-time. one thing is becoming increasingly clear: it is becoming increasingly problematic for sweden to be outside the emu. my question to the president of the council is therefore: what difficulties does the council consider that a long-term uk, danish and swedish emu presidency would create for a more cohesive union? i do not want a domestic policy answer, but a more principled position from an eu perspective.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by welcoming the prime minister of sweden once again to the european parliament. i also want to congratulate you on a successful meeting in stockholm. i shall be dealing with the lisbon process. there has been a debate here about whether or not the process is a success, and criticism from the right wing that it has not been a sufficient success. however, this depends on how one views the council meeting. if the future progress of europe is measured only in deregulation, it is clear that the meeting may not have been a success. i myself, as a friend of deregulation, would have liked to have gone further along this road. the most important aspect of the stockholm meeting, however, was the balancing act, i.e. the deregulation that was achieved was balanced with a policy of employment, social security and justice. we will never be able to create a europe for the citizens unless these ingredients are also included. gunilla carlsson said that we had a difficult time in the european social democracy. let me name these 'difficulties', which are really about a social democracy with a fairly good economic development and responsible for the political development of virtually every country in the eu. the difficulties are probably to be found elsewhere on the political spectrum, namely among gunilla carlson's friends. i regard the stockholm meeting as a success, not least in relation to the drafts that were available from the commission, because the balance has now been restored. there are clear employment objectives, sub-objectives, employment objectives for the elderly and this one addressed to herman schmid: there is a link between a reduction in unemployment and an increase in employment! i would argue that employment targets are more important than unemployment targets, although they are both important. in sweden we have combined unemployment and employment targets. this, combined with an active labour market policy, means an increase in labour supply but also a reduction in unemployment. it's important that we get to the bottom of this. it is also important to introduce childcare as a social right, in different forms in different countries, but also to enable men and women to participate in the labour market. it is about good work, not just creating more jobs, but jobs where health and safety is good, where the influence of workers is great and where the opportunities for skills development and advancement in working life are there. all these ingredients were present at the stockholm meeting. this was the first step in a process that will continue for many years. it was also very important because this first impression also meant that the process could continue in barcelona. finally, i would like to make a connection between the gothenburg summit and the ecological dimension, which is the next step. link this to the open method of coordination and we have a policy of unity.
mr president, the president-in-office of the council! i welcome the addition to the stockholm agenda of the incorporation of sustainable development and environmentally-friendly growth into the lisbon strategy. i think the amendment is the minimum of decency. what does that mean, politically speaking? maybe it's just words? both the council decisions and the commission's discussion papers on sustainable development presented after the stockholm summit place too much emphasis on economic policy and competitive growth. the structural indicators of the ecofin council were fully adopted, but not a single environmental indicator was included, not even the commission's proposal for energy efficiency indicators, nor any indicator for greenhouse gas emissions. in that sense, the stockholm summit was a disappointment. the fact that the united states is now threatening to withdraw from the kyoto protocol is scandalous and eu leaders must consider tangible measures to show... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. given the short time available, i'll just get to the important stuff first. minister klingvall has just announced that she intends to help to achieve agreements in three areas, precisely in the three areas where the european parliament has said no. we have voted against the reports by mr ceyhun, mr nassauer and mr kirkhope. it is quite shocking that the presidency does not respect parliament's position. i myself think it is quite clear from today's debate that the responsibility for an overall policy in this area should lie with the commission. alarming figures on population trends are presented europe is shrinking. we are expected to reduce by 10% in the member states and by 20% in the candidate countries. we are going to have a shortage of labour, both of more and less skilled labour, and both of short and long term. our external borders are under intense pressure. the fact that europe must open up to labour immigration is a conclusion that even the most vehement opponents have accepted. however, we are not allowed to know anything about how this will be done - nothing about the design of the system, nothing about the quota system or the green card, whether these openings and solutions will apply only to highly educated people or whether they will also apply to the less educated. does the council have any concrete solutions in this area? should we let crime and the harsh reality of the world decide? we look forward to the proposals that the commission will present in this area. the commission seems to be best placed to deal with this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the two swedish ministers and the commission for their comments. some people describe europe as a europe that shuts out. they like to call it "fortress europe". we, the others, who want to create a humane europe that takes account of people in need of protection and who want a humane policy on asylum and refugees, use the concept of freedom, justice and security. i share the view of both the commission and the presidency that the current shortcomings in the area of asylum and refugees are linked to the problem of our lack of a common policy. at present, different policies are followed in different countries. the policy we must build must be based on international conventions, protection needs and family reunification. i also felt that the presidency would weigh up parliament's views on the question of the liability of transport operators, which was discussed at length in parliament during the last partsession. at least that is how i understood it very clearly in the speech. i also think we should distinguish between labour immigration and asylum and refugee policy. the latter is based on the need for protection of the people. the fact that we now, all of a sudden, see that we will have a shortage of labour in the coming years, and that is about our need for labour. we talk far too little about integration policy in this context, since the key element of asylum and refugee policy is an integration policy in which we take care of the people who come here in need of protection. today, however, we see that these people are largely excluded from society, that they do not have the same rights and that they are not exploited in the labour market. they are very much part of the 14 million unemployed. i would like to begin by saying that before we talk about labour immigration - and it is possible that it could also be a question of labour immigration - we should focus on integration policy and a common asylum and refugee policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is about how loyal swedish prime ministers adopt the propaganda language of the unified eu liturgy. freedom, security, justice - but there is no such thing! freedom at gibraltar for those who drown trying to enter the eu? freedom on the polish eastern border, where the soviet border is now being used physically to act as the eu's external border in the other direction? is that freedom? security? when we're all being monitored by the sis registry, which knows everything, even if we have any sexual peculiarities? justice when all the police officers who are working on this say that the identity checks that will become mandatory because of the schengen agreement will affect those who look non-european? klingvall and bodström! there's a word for this, a dirty word: "fortress europe! this is what you're building, what you promised you wouldn't build! what if you built the other way, instead of just gliding along with what the federalists and big power builders in this institution are doing?
i'm here on behalf of mikhail papayannakis. i thank the council of ministers for their reply, which i think was good in many ways. i have a supplementary question concerning the demands now being made on the albanian minority in macedonia for increased influence and some form of self-government or federation within macedonia. does the council of ministers have any views on the demands of the albanian minority in macedonia?
i have two supplementary questions to put to the council of ministers. the first concerns whether the council shares the commission's view that the eu treaty precludes a tobin tax on transactions, i.e. that a tobin tax would be prohibited under article 56 of the eu treaty. is this also the view of the council of ministers? my second question concerns the fact that many in the swedish government are said to be in favour of a tobin tax. does sweden, as a member state, have any plans to raise this issue in the eu council of ministers or is the positive attitude towards the tax more principled than practical?
i would like to ask the council a question about the slight trend towards the tobin tax introduced by sweden between 1986 and 1991, i.e. the turnover tax on share transactions. what was the result of this type of transaction tax?
i would like to thank mr danielsson for his reply. i am not at all surprised by this clear distinction between the areas of eu competence, which is in itself correct and correct. i would like to remind you, however, that the proposal for a new law in the netherlands on physician-assisted suicide is a matter of serious concern in many countries. history has shown the danger of such a development. i would point out that this bill actually allows children from the age of 12 to take part in physician-assisted suicide with the consent of their parents and also gives children from the age of 16 the right to self-determination without the consent of their parents. this is a question which we in a europe where the austrian debate has raised questions of human dignity cannot ignore. i would like to ask you, however, whether the question of this law in the netherlands has any bearing on the debate on values in the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for an excellent report. as a shadow rapporteur, it is always nice to have a good dialogue with a rapporteur who is receptive to the views and proposals being put forward. it is of course important to safeguard the interests of air passengers in this matter. i therefore think that the final result of the report is entirely positive. the amendments adopted by the committee are in no small part from the ppe-de group and have strengthened the position of passengers. we already have a regulation setting the limits of airline liability in the event of death or personal injury. this was a very important step in view of the level of the 1929 warsaw convention, which is definitely too low. the aim of the present proposal is to bring eu rules into line with the new montreal convention, which will hopefully enter into force at the end of 2002. the revised regulation will bring significantly improved protection for european air passengers. however, when they fly with foreign airlines, they may still face limited liability under the warsaw convention, as it will still apply to countries that have not ratified the montreal convention. this brings us to the constant difficulty, which always occurs in international conventions, that in a transitional period we will have two overlapping systems. it is therefore of the utmost importance that our member states ratify the montreal convention as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in the public debate i often hear that it was the farmers who fed their cows to cows that had died by suicide. unfortunately, they did, but farmers had no way, at that time and with the system we have, of knowing exactly what they were feeding their animals. when we discuss the feed and food chain, we must ensure that the whole chain, from a to z, is permeated by a number of concepts: openness, transparency and information. we have a chain with many links and with large distances between each link. the same goes for feed. there is no reasonable possibility today for a normal farmer buying feed, whether that farmer has a small or a large operation, to know what is in it. he has no laboratory at his disposal, and with the present state of the feed, neither the appearance, smell, nor taste can give him any information about the contents. this requires much greater transparency and much more precise information for farmers. i think that this proposal is too complicated and that in the long term we should be able to find common principles for feed and food which are somewhat simpler and somewhat more understandable both for the farmer and for the final consumer of the food, such as a descending scale declaration of content, exact information on request. however, given the current situation and the fact that we are at the beginning of this food safety process, the eldr group will vote in favour of this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are looking to china now in the hope that the incident with the american plane will be resolved without too much rhetoric and political polemics. however, even apart from this incident, the reports from china are close. it is almost always about the abuse of its own citizens. observers worldwide agree that the human rights situation in china is deteriorating. it is about the situation in tibet and in xinjiang, and about the widespread increase in torture, the persecution of pro-democracy activists, unionists and dissidents. it is about the frequent use of the death penalty and the fight against freedom of expression on the internet. it is not least the arrests, torture and harassment of falun gong practitioners. the chinese regime's goal of cracking this movement will not succeed. the persecution must stop immediately and dialogue must begin. parliament is unanimous on the situation in china. i know that the commission shares this view and commissioner chris patten has repeatedly defended human rights in china in this house. the world's most populous country systematically violates the rights of its citizens. europe cannot stand by and watch this happen. the signals coming from the council, however, are contradictory and hypocritical and contribute to weakening the international struggle to change the chinese regime's policy. this division benefits no one but the chinese regime, at the expense of the chinese people. the council must therefore come together and show that all the talk about unity is not just talk, but can also be expressed in action, and support the resolution against china in geneva in a few weeks' time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. even if the worst-case scenarios of our ongoing climate change are not painted, the people of the poorest countries are the ones who are affected the most. it is therefore highly remarkable that the country that accounts for more than a quarter of the world's total carbon dioxide emissions is not taking part in the reduction. it's terrible and it's a big disappointment, but it's hardly surprising. it was hardly a coincidence that president clinton failed to enshrine the kyoto protocol in the us senate. time and again, most recently at last year's climate conference in the hague, the united states has shown its unwillingness to negotiate the american way of life. president bush has now taken the lid off his mouth and openly said that he will not participate in the kyoto protocol because it "excludes 80 percent of the world and would seriously damage the american economy". it is deeply disturbing to see the world's largest democracy knowingly and willingly sacrificing the long-term interests of the majority of the world's population on the altar of its own greed.
mr president, i would like to thank you. president bush's decision is deeply tragic. for more than a decade, negotiations have been under way on measures to protect the climate. the united states has been involved all along, and has consistently forced compromises, not least on the part of us europeans. when you quit now, it's like throwing ten years of negotiations out the window. this puts the whole system of international environmental negotiations at risk. bush says the u.s. economy would suffer. at the same time, we know that the united states consumes more than twice as much energy per unit of energy produced as the eu average. the potential for energy savings in the united states is enormous. what happened is deeply tragic. the us action places a particularly heavy responsibility on us europeans to take the lead in climate action, because the work must continue, with or without the us. then we can hope that the political leadership of the united states will come to their senses. the positive contribution of the united states is absolutely essential in the long term if we are to stabilise the climate. therefore, mr president, we must not stop at criticism and condemnation of the united states, because we also need dialogue to achieve a change in bush's decision in the long term.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the vatican is not exactly known for its progressive views on sexuality. not only do contraceptives empower women worldwide to control their own bodies, but condoms could also save tens of thousands of lives in aids-stricken countries in africa. this is opposed by the vatican, as is the attempt to stop the possibility of abortion for raped women in, for example, bosnia. in view of this, it is tremendous to read the report showing how catholic priests have abused, raped women and nuns. the vatican has known about this since 1994, but it has tried to downplay the incident and silenced the women when they tried to tell, or forced them to have abortions. some have reportedly contracted aids. this is not an isolated incident, it has happened in at least 23 countries, and there is only one word to sum it up: shameful, shameful, shameful! the vatican must immediately punish the perpetrators, apologize to the women affected, thoroughly investigate what happened, and publish the full report.
the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your contribution to the debate on the future of the european union. this is a day i never dreamed of, to stand before you at this crucial moment. the european parliament's plenary session today and tomorrow is an important event for the institutions of the european union and the member states, but above all it is an important event for the citizens of europe. at this meeting parliament has the opportunity to take a decisive step towards bringing the european union closer to its citizens. for the first time in the almost 50-year history of the union, it is within the bounds of possibility to adopt treaty-based rules on public access to parliament, council and commission documents. i would like to thank the european parliament for its energetic and persistent work to bring about new and better rules on transparency. during my visit, i have had the great pleasure of meeting several of you personally, and i know the great efforts many of you have made on this important issue. too many citizens in today's eu feel that the administration of the eu institutions is dusty, old-fashioned and over-bureaucratized. to tackle this, we need a modern, efficient and functioning union, where citizens' transparency and participation are the obvious foundation on which all work rests. there are various ways of improving the transparency of the eu institutions, but by far the best and most effective way is to have generous rules on access to documents in combination with open registers. such rules increase public confidence in the institutions and allow citizens to participate in the decision-making process. the air is cleared when everyone knows that all the documentation on the decision-making process is available for review, and usually also accessible. the european parliament early on stressed the importance of greater transparency in the eu institutions. in a resolution of january 1999, parliament described the importance of increased transparency as follows: the move towards greater openness and transparency is essential to the success of the future of the eu, as it helps to clarify the eu's political choices, promotes a wider and more balanced input into the political process, reduces the extent of corruption and abuse of power and generally promotes greater acceptance of eu decisions among european citizens.i am convinced that the european parliament's resolution set a standard for the implementation work now completed, which the commission was obliged to take into account when drafting its proposal for a regulation. for example, the parliament's statement made it practically impossible to exempt documents received by the institutions from the right of access. i am speaking here today as the representative of the council, but i am also the prime minister of the swedish government. when the treaty on the multi-country accession of sweden to the european union was signed in corfu in june 1994, the european council stated that the new member states were at the forefront of transparency and open governance and welcomed the additional stimulus that could come from the new member states in these respects. sweden has tried to live up to these hopes, for example by taking the initiative at the previous intergovernmental conference to inscribe in the eu treaty basic rules on openness and transparency. as the presidency of this six-month period, we have felt that we have an obligation to lead with full force the work of implementing the rules actually written into the treaty of amsterdam. the treaty of amsterdam established a right of access for citizens to european parliament, council and commission documents. this means that citizens have a treaty right to access these documents. the new rules now before parliament will have much greater stability and impact than the current rules, which the institutions can change or even abolish at any time by acting unilaterally. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the work of the last few months has been very intense. all the parties involved have invested enormous time and resources in the work to establish good transparency rules. the representatives of parliament have, in particular, been vigorous and persistent in their efforts to bring about such rules. i would like to thank in particular the committee chairman, mr graham watson, the rapporteurs, mr michael cashman and mr hanja maij-weggen, and on behalf of the commission, mr michel barnier. there are several reasons why both parliament and the swedish presidency have pushed the negotiations so hard. first of all, there was a political commitment to be ready with the new transparency rules by may this year. it is therefore our duty to do everything possible to meet these expectations. in the end, the credibility of the eu is at stake. the council and parliament must show the citizens that efforts are really being made to bring about good rules within the promised time. secondly, we need new and better regulations. the rules which citizens have had to accept so far have a low standard status, since they are based on the internal rules of procedure of the institutions, and they have major shortcomings. for example, the rules do not cover documents submitted to the institutions: nor is there any right to extract parts of documents. of the institutions, only the council has so far set up a public register, and the current rules make it time-consuming to get documents out. another example of the shortcomings of the current rules is that the list of privacy grounds is not exhaustive. the proposal on which parliament has to give its opinion is a clear improvement on the current legal situation. it is a proposal that is timely. in many cases, documents will be available directly via the internet. this has long been a demand of the european parliament and this demand is now being met in the new proposal. documents previously available will also be made available on request. the time available to the institutions to respond to an application has been reduced. access shall be granted as soon as possible and at the latest within 15 working days. the institutions are obliged to provide the citizen with all the services he needs to access a document. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. another improvement is that the new rules apply to all documents held by the institutions. no exception is made for certain categories of documents, such as documents relating to defence or security matters. this improvement is also the result of the initiative of the european parliament. of course, the new rules in this section are designed to guarantee confidentiality in cases where this is justified for defence or security reasons. the compromise text on which parliament is now to take a position is thus a step forward for the europe of the citizens and for democracy. the new rules will significantly improve citizens' access to eu documents. i am convinced that in the long term the new rules will also bring about significant positive changes in the institutional management culture and in the attitude of officials towards the public. the new rules will help the union to gain confidence and democratic legitimacy. access to the documents of the institutions is the lever needed to achieve these objectives. as the presidency, our task has not been to transfer to the institutions the national rules on the publication of documents, either in sweden or in other member states. rather, our task has been to blend the best of the different member states' management cultures and historical experiences, taking into account the institutions' own experiences and the need for special adaptations. we have succeeded in this in the council, together with the commission and representatives of parliament, and it is now up to parliament to finally adopt a position on a text which is the result of 15 months of intensive, hard and finally fruitful negotiations. however good the new rules may be, they must be gradually adapted to new requirements. it is therefore good that the european parliament, in the course of the negotiations, took the initiative of a provision on the review and evaluation of the new rules. the proposal requires the commission to present a detailed report on the practical operation of the new transparency rules by 31 january 2004 in good time for the next parliamentary elections . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. anyone who has followed the dramatic negotiations of the last few weeks knows that the proposal for a regulation, which has been drawn up with the responsibility of all the institutions concerned, is balancing on a knife-edge. i am convinced that this plenary session can be hailed as the meeting at which parliament took advantage of a unique opportunity to bring the union closer to its citizens. it is a historic decision, also because it is not the member states in an intergovernmental conference but the institutions themselves that are now responsible for the future of the union. the very fact that the institutions were able to reach agreement on a particularly difficult issue, but one which was crucial for the citizens' confidence, and within the time promised by the treaty of amsterdam, gives hope for the future. the european parliament now has the final say. i am convinced that future generations of europeans will remember what happened on 2 and 3 may 2001.
commission. - mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of clear standards for public access to documents is absolutely essential, not only for the proper functioning of the community institutions but also, as has just been said, to strengthen their democratic legitimacy vis-à-vis the citizens of the union. the commission therefore considers the draft regulation we are discussing today to be particularly important and significant. i am pleased to note that after many months of intensive work, the representatives of the three institutions have succeeded in producing a text which, in my view, is both clear and balanced, and which has received the assent of the committee on civil liberties of your assembly, the committee of permanent representatives of the member states and the commission itself. it is now up to your assembly to decide freely on the outcome of this work. at this point, mr president, i would like to thank very sincerely the rapporteurs, mr cashman and mrs maij-weggen, and mrs hautala, the co-rapporteurs, the members and mr watson, chairman of the committee on civil liberties, for the work they have done over the last 15 or 16 months, with great availability and great tenacity. i would also like to commend the efforts made by the swedish presidency of the council, madam minister - yourself and all your colleagues - who have successfully tried to reconcile the views, and we know that this was not easy in the first place, and to make the draft regulation compatible with the different administrative traditions of the member states. as the rapporteurs have just pointed out, the draft regulation is a considerable step forward from current practice and thus brings the community system closer to that of the member states which are most advanced in terms of transparency. of course, ladies and gentlemen, the text is probably not perfect. likely, he will not be able to satisfy everyone fully in every respect. i have just heard mrs hautala use a symbolic expression about russian dolls. i do not think, madam rapporteur, that if you open all the boxes you will find mr solana. i think mr. solana has a much higher dimension and personality, much more important, than what you showed earlier. but the truth is, once you start opening the boxes or the russian dolls, and you realize there's something in there, then it's gonna be hard to stop. that's probably how your image is accurate and symbolic, on that point at least. in the commission's view, ladies and gentlemen, this text is in fact the balance between the specific characteristics of each institution and the practices of the member states. from this point of view, quite frankly, it is the best compromise possible. the commission therefore formally accepts all the amendments tabled today by the rapporteurs and approved on 25 april by the committee on civil liberties, chaired by mr watson. i hope that the european parliament will also follow the advice and recommendations of your rapporteurs so that we can adopt this regulation and make it really operational as soon as possible. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the nature of the documents produced and held by each institution, and the volume of documents they deal with, really reflect their specificities, their roles, which are both different and complementary. and of the three institutions, the commission is by far the one which deals with the largest volume of documents, documents of a very diverse nature precisely because of its role as initiator of legislation, guardian of the treaties and guarantor of community law, of respect for community law as well. the commission is fully aware that it will therefore be the main responsible body for implementing the regulation on public access to documents. it is precisely because of the dual objective of ensuring the widest possible public access to documents and ensuring compliance with community law that the commission has decided on the system to be used in respect of the sensitive case of infringement proceedings. the commission wishes to state here, and will also state to the council, that in a spirit of compromise and as proposed by the rapporteurs, mr cashman and mrs maij-weggen in particular, it can accept that infringement procedures are not among the exceptions provided for in the regulation, as it considers that this approach does not prejudice the exercise of its responsibilities in respect of monitoring compliance with community law. i believe that by implementing this regulation we will be doing a service to the institutions and the citizens of the union. it is with full awareness of the importance of this text that i want to assure you that the commission is determined to apply it and to apply this regulation diligently and effectively, not just because it is its duty, but because, i am deeply convinced, and it is in this spirit that i have personally worked alongside you and the presidency of the council since president prodi entrusted me with this dossier, i am deeply convinced that this text is intended to considerably strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the union's institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and all those involved in this process! the european parliament will shortly be voting on the proposal for a regulation on public access to eu institutional documents, drawn up jointly by parliament, the council and the commission in the framework of the so-called tripartite cooperation. this new regulation is a step towards a more open, more democratic eu by making the work of bureaucrats more transparent to the public. the starting point is that all documents should be accessible to the public. of course there are exceptions to this general rule, just as there are to the swedish principle of publicity, but the exceptions have been considerably reduced compared to the original proposal, and are now limited to the strictly necessary to protect mainly military and security interests, business secrets and information on the private life of individuals. each case shall be examined individually and a new examination shall be carried out in response to each new request from the public. the refusal to disclose a document may only be made if it is established that disclosure would harm the interests of citizens. in previous proposals, it was sufficient to state that disclosure could potentially harm those interests. for the convenience of the public, there shall be a register of references to all documents and, as far as possible, both the register and the documents shall be accessible via the internet. these are some of the progress achieved in the tough negotiations of recent months. there are still critics of the compromise. they should bear in mind that most eu countries have nothing close to the swedish principle of publicity, and that some of them find the issue incomprehensible and its importance overstated. to vote against the proposal because it has not achieved 100 per cent of what was desired would be frivolous. does it make sense to go hungry just because you haven't had a three-course meal? the requirement to review the proposal before the 2004 european elections is a prerequisite for citizens' support. this will allow for the text to be improved later in the event of political opposition, so voters can influence the issue, including through the way they vote. the result achieved has been presented as a victory for the swedish presidency, and since the swedish government has had openness as a profile issue, it would have been a clear failure for the government to have to leave the walkover to the next presidency. i would like to complete that picture, not take away the victory of the swedish presidency, but complete the picture. prime minister göran persson has made a name for himself as a proponent of the intergovernmental model, a model with little transparency for citizens. a theoretical but relevant question in the context of the transparency debate is what the outcome would have been with persson's intergovernmental model. how much transparency would the citizens have had then? the original proposals of the commission and the council were totally unacceptable from the point of view of transparency and from the point of view of the citizen. the answer is given: parliament is the institution that has stood up for openness and has been able to be used as a lever in the negotiations in the council. without the parliament's hard work for greater openness and the co-decision procedure, such a good result would not have been achieved. i would like to conclude by expressing my warm thanks to michael cashman, hanja maij-weggen, graham watson, heidi hautala and cecilia malmström, to commissioner barnier, who has done a great deal of work in the commission, and finally to the committee secretariat.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, and i would like to thank the commission, the presidency and the council for a constructive work. the first question to ask is whether this is the best proposal that parliament can come up with. the answer is no! there are details in this document on which we have comments and which we wish would be better. this applies, among other things, to questions concerning sensitive documents. there may also be comments on the way the process has been conducted, that it has sometimes been conducted behind closed doors, which is generally the case with the conciliation procedure. although there have been some treatments, the procedure is not particularly open. the second question we must ask ourselves is whether this proposal is a success, even a considerable success, in relation to the situation we have today. my answer is an unconditional yes! that's a considerable success compared to the current situation. i cannot reasonably understand those who say that it is a setback. that all incoming documents are now public - they are not today - is that not a success? the fact that in principle all documents should be registered - that is not done today - is that not a success? that the rules of confidentiality that we have, that we recognize must exist and that exist in all the countries that have reached the very top in this area, are relatively few and, moreover, quite visible is that not a success? the answer is an unqualified yes! furthermore, the processing time must be short for an individual seeking access to a document. the internet will be used to a greater extent and the processing time will be limited to 15 days, which means that the process will be relatively quick. if the individual is not satisfied with the decision, there shall be a right of appeal and review. this, if anything, is a success! in addition, the national rules will apply in those countries which have a better legislation than the one now proposed. there will therefore be no retreat for those countries which have more open legislation. all of this is a considerable success. it would therefore seem very strange if this parliament were to vote against a proposal which does not go all the way to the finish line. however, we are almost there and have the opportunity to follow up this in annual trials. in addition, an audit will be carried out in a few years. we in parliament will of course say yes to this proposal! citizens want more transparency in the institutions. this proposal represents a clear improvement in the transparency and thus also in the democratic process within the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it should be a happy day when the european parliament votes on eu rules on transparency and access to documents, but there are too many crumbs in the cup of joy. the reason for this is the wording of sensitive documents which makes it possible in the future to classify not only sensitive military documents but also more general documents on security and perhaps also on other policy areas. the wording on sensitive documents is too general and too lax. as for the documents which will be classified in the member state of sweden, for example, will the commission not be the one to decide in future? if so, it is a serious infringement of the swedish constitution. i also agree with what has been said about the procedure itself, namely that it is very difficult to understand that negotiations on such a sensitive and important matter have taken place between the committee, the council and the commission, out of the view of ordinary members and the public, in an informal process which i would describe as very dubious.
mr president, i would like to thank you. transparency and the right to access documents are central elements of a living democracy, but the proposal we are now going to vote on on access to documents in the eu is a disappointment. in some areas, it is even worse than the practice already in place in the eu. the negotiations on the proposal itself have also been a display of a lack of transparency. the normal parliamentary procedure has been disregarded and significant parts of parliament, including our group, have been excluded from influence. respect for national rules on transparency is not guaranteed by the proposal. an eu regulation is superior to national rules. in addition, paragraph 14 of that regulation states that the member states must be loyal to its content. article 5 further states that in cases of uncertainty, member states shall ask the eu institutions for guidance in deciding whether eu documents may be disclosed. it is therefore not true that the swedish principle of publicity is guaranteed by this proposal. on the contrary, the court of justice of the eu has the final say in disputes arising in this area. extensive and partly vague exceptions are made to the rules on access to documents. whole areas such as security policy, internal documents and documents from member states are in practice excluded. the so-called "sensitive documents" don't even have to be reported in the diaries. these exceptions greatly undermine the improvements made by the proposal, such as the requirements for diaries, access to electronic documents and time limits. in this debate, the european parliament's access to classified documents has also been dealt with, alongside the public's right to documents. it's an unfortunate confusion of issues that should not have happened. i do not see that the advantages of this proposal clearly outweigh the disadvantages. it is not time to finish this work, it is not finished. the settlement should proceed as usual.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when the present commission took office in autumn 1999, all the commissioners promised that 'there would be new times'. the work would be promoted by openness and transparency and the mistakes of the santer commission would not be repeated. the general debate in 1999 was very much about openness and transparency. several of us took the decision to make the eu more open. transparency and publicity are essential elements of democratic and efficient administration, and if citizens can follow the decision-making process in the eu machinery, trust is also increased. we also know that there is a clear correlation between high levels of transparency and low levels of corruption in an administration. the regulation we are voting on tomorrow is a compromise between transparency-friendly countries in the council of ministers and parliament. in many ways, it's a step forward. it provides european citizens with a coherent set of rules on how they can access documents. it sets out important principles, which several of my colleagues have been keen to see. however, it also contains a number of shortcomings which we liberals regret. there is a kind of rubber clause which concerns so-called sensitive documents which must be dealt with in a special way. this is an unfortunate rule and one that can be interpreted arbitrarily. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to what would apply in relation to national law should a conflict arise. in some member states, such as sweden and the netherlands, there are more far-reaching rules on access to documents. in sweden, the tradition of openness goes back to my party friend, the liberal anders chydenius, in 1766. what happens if a document is secret in brussels but public in stockholm? the government and the swedish prime minister have said that swedish law applies then, can you trust that? the presidency has a very great responsibility, namely to ensure that dutch legislation, but above all the swedish constitution, is not eroded and that no self-censorship is instigated by the swedish authorities. it is obvious that there is a fear in the commission and in some member states that the public will be over-informed. those of us who believe in openness must constantly fight to prove otherwise. transparency is not dangerous, it is democratic and effective! the liberal group sees this as a compromise which makes some progress but also contains some shortcomings. we are voting yes tomorrow as the first step in the long journey ahead of us in opening up the eu institutions to citizens. this is where further efforts are needed, and we will test the limits of legislation. we are also taking the lead in bringing about even better rules in a few years' time, because after all, transparency is the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on the part of the verts/ale group, we are glad that we have at least managed to agree on a resolution, although we would naturally wish it to be stronger on certain points. fifteen years after chernobyl: nuclear safety and its health effects is the subject of this resolution. chernobyl is a constant reminder that we cannot continue to ignore the dangers of nuclear power and it is the clearest warning yet of the threat nuclear energy poses to our very existence. i would like to say to the previous speaker that it is not communism that has invented accidents, but that accidents have also occurred in the united states and japan. i think we can agree on that. the un department of humanitarian affairs estimates that 9 million people have been directly or indirectly affected by the chernobyl accident. in belarus, 18 percent of the total population lives in a highly polluted environment. these figures are staggering when you consider what they mean to individuals. the children, as commissioner wallström mentioned, are the most vulnerable. the world health organization reports that the annual rate of thyroid cancer in children in the gomel region of belarus, and in the most affected areas of ukraine, exceeds normal values by nearly a hundred times. the question is whether we have learned anything since then. does the precautionary principle apply today? the eu funds are still being allocated to complete the nuclear reactor in ukraine and euratom is still spreading its teachings on the legality and excellence of nuclear power. it is of course good that the eu is contributing to nuclear safety, but should we not also at some point provide funds for the closure of nuclear power stations? i would like to ask commissioner wallström whether the commission has any plans to ask the applicant countries to close their nuclear power stations before they can become members of the european union? i also want to join the earlier question about the eu's security standards, what do we say to the candidate countries when they ask about this?
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we all know that euro notes and coins will be introduced on 1 january next year. twelve of the national currencies of the member states are disappearing and being gradually replaced by the new single currency. the names kohl and delors should be mentioned in this context. it is strange that not all member states have yet realised that the internal market cannot be fully effective in the long term if it is fragmented into a variety of national currencies. we all know the benefits of the single currency, that is, economic and monetary cooperation. the use of the euro on the european continent has already brought economic stability and benefits, promoted economic development, increased consumption and investment and created new jobs. i believe that the single currency will stimulate greater mobility to an extent that will lead to a whole new europe in ten years' time. the euro is a great step forward in european integration. the euro will become one of the largest and most important currencies in international trade. in a few years, 300 million people will have this new national currency, which will be as usable outside the eu as the dollar is today and can be used for direct payments without change. the euro is already an international reserve and transaction currency and will remain so to an even greater extent in the future. the importance and importance of the euro as an international currency will unfortunately also make it attractive to organised counterfeiters. the increasing sophistication of equipment for such operations has reduced the complexity of counterfeiting. against this background, it is important to have comprehensive and effective anti-counterfeiting protection in place well in advance of the euro's entry into circulation. the potential for the euro to spread is enormous and extends beyond both the eu's external and internal borders. the conditions for protecting the euro against counterfeiting must therefore be adapted to this new dimension and also be equipped with a legal framework which will enable us to get the support of all the eu member states, institutions and bodies and the international organisations concerned. the three proposals for legal acts on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting dealt with in the report are complementary. unfortunately, the legal basis is based on two different pillars, the first and the third. in the long term, it would be desirable to include provisions based on article 29 teu in title iv of the ec treaty, so that adequate decisions can be taken in a uniform manner to solve the problems that cannot be solved by other measures. the first draft act is an initiative of the government of the french republic and is based on title vi of the ec treaty. it is therefore a question of criminal law protection and of europol's units having access to the information and data they need to carry out their work. the amendments are intended to incorporate some of the texts which have been omitted and to correct certain terminological and other ambiguities. the second, and in some ways more interesting, proposal for a council directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on article 123 (4) of the ec treaty. this legal basis allows the scope of the regulation to be extended only to those member states which have adopted the euro as their single currency. the proposal is to set up a system of information exchange, cooperation and mutual assistance. my main amendments concern the need to have a counterfeit analysis centre at eu level and a national centre in each member state. it also mentions the need to establish a permanent technical and scientific centre for the analysis and classification of counterfeit coins and, not least, the need for the exchange offices, which deal with banknotes and coins on a daily basis for their customers, to carry out adequate checks on their authenticity. otherwise, the citizens are the ones who suffer, and they are left totally unprotected when they receive counterfeit coins and notes. there is no way they can compensate for such a loss anywhere else. how can a citizen carry a monitoring device the size of a large pc in his pocket? even if someone is willing to pay for a device - it's not that big of a sum, about the price of a pc - it's not practical. i therefore think it is much more appropriate to check banknotes and coins at the exchange offices. this is a position that parliament should definitely take in order to protect the citizens. the third proposal is based on article 308 of the ec treaty and is aimed at the member states which have not adopted the single currency, namely the united kingdom, denmark and sweden. they must also be covered by the safety regulation we are working on, otherwise it will not work. i am sure that the citizens of these countries realize that they too must be involved in these decisions. however, they must also realise that if they are not members of the club, they cannot participate in the decisions on the same terms as the members. however, those who join the euro can do so on the same terms as other members. unfortunately, those who don't join the movement don't have the same influence. whether or not to join is indeed a decision that one must have the strength to make, and on this point i would like to call on my own country, sweden, to try to gather the strength to make this decision as soon as possible. it is not about anything other than political leadership. we can compare this with france, for example, which, at the time of the maastricht treaty, approved it with a smaller majority than sweden. france, however, has managed to make its decision, unlike sweden. this is something i deeply regret. i would like to conclude by saying that the proposals contained in the council guidelines are aimed at ensuring the effective protection of the euro and i therefore welcome the proposal as a whole.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. we shall now deal with the question of synthetic drugs. europe is a world leader in the production of synthetic drugs. it's not something to be too proud of. large quantities of lsd, amphetamines, ecstasy and other synthetic drugs are produced every day on our continent, either for domestic consumption or for export to third countries. this large-scale and often organised production is a disgrace to europe and undermines our credibility in the international fight against organised crime. this initiative against synthetic drugs should therefore be warmly welcomed. the proposal is based on a highly developed analytical method, applied by some laboratories. the production process and production methods of synthetic drugs give them certain common characteristics, which make it possible to identify a link between synthetic drugs seized at different times and in different places. such information can help the police to identify illegal drug production centres or networks. the method provides the police and the judiciary with an excellent tool to call in the drug factories. the first decision concerns the establishment of the system of specific forensic profiling. member states are obliged to send samples of certain batches to certain laboratories. unfortunately, today such facilities exist only in sweden, germany, and the netherlands. the idea is that as soon as a laboratory in a member state has the necessary competence, it should be included in the system. this broadens the scope of competence throughout the union. the second decision concerns the actual transmission of samples of controlled narcotic substances. member states are obliged to allow the consignments to pass through their territory. the consignments must be transported in a manner which ensures the highest possible security to ensure that the samples transported are not misused. it should also be stressed that these are milligrams, that is to say, extremely small quantities, which can hardly be misused because they are so extremely small. it should be pointed out that the initiative only concerns the fight against the large-scale organised production of synthetic drugs, which is prohibited throughout the eu. so it is not at all a question of the sensitive debate on what should be allowed on the street, for personal use, etc. this debate is not at all concerned with this, but with the organized production of synthetic drugs. it should also be stressed that the proposed system is not definitive. it's not perfect in every way. i know that. it would be preferable for all countries to have their own laboratories for forensic profiling, but as the technology is only developed in a few countries, this is not the case at present. at the same time, it would be a grave mistake not to take advantage of the opportunity to acquire the production units that exist within the union. as regards the transport system itself, i think it would be good, as some countries, such as france and spain in particular, have also been in favour of, if these samples could be transmitted electronically. i share that view. the report also states that the transport mode must be continuously reviewed. in my view, however, it would be completely wrong to use such arguments to prevent the introduction of the system now. this parliament will certainly be extremely important in pushing forward the issue of electronic transfer, but i really hope that spain will not use it as an argument to stop the transfers. that would be deeply regrettable. fortunately, the committee recognised this and the report was adopted unanimously. i regret that there are some countries in the council which have not realised that it is just as well to start now. these are actually slowing down the law enforcement. as i see it, it is simply irresponsible to put the cart before the horse in the fight against organised crime simply because we do not have the perfect system. this is the same argument we heard earlier when we discussed openness and transparency and where sweden offered europe a compromise. now there is every reason for us to do the same thing together. i hope that both parliament and the council will support this initiative, and i would like to thank the young nils hänninger of the ministry of justice in sweden who has put forward this idea. i would also like to congratulate the swedish presidency on this decision, which is likely to be the first binding decision in the field of drugs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. roth-behrendt has done an extremely good job for a long time in fighting bse, or tses. we have now finally reached the point where we may have some sort of order and stop the chains of infection that we know exist in this context. i would like to take this opportunity to ask us to think more long-term. sadly, mankind still does not know why, where, and when prions go "mad", when this prion disease occurs, and for what reason. the situation requires a certain humility on our part. at the moment there is another discussion on animal by-products, and it now looks as if a new round of debate is about to begin. we tried to make a cow that's a vegetarian an all-eater, and it gave us bse. at the moment we are at a point where i suspect that out of fear, panic or for other reasons, political populism perhaps, we will try to make the pig a grazing animal, a vegetarian. it would also be good if we looked a little grand at our own history. our ancestors knew very well that you should not eat animals that have died by suicide. it is in modern times that we have become so far removed from biology that we have begun to engage in such experiments. i would like us to be calm and quiet, to show a little humility in the face of the food disasters that have befallen us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this regulation aims to coordinate and facilitate the movement of pet animals within europe. the case may at first sight seem trivial, but we swedes remember it more than twenty years ago, when the retired swedish ambassador to portugal refused to leave his home in lisbon because his life partner, an old angora cat, would have to be quarantined for a long time to be allowed to enter sweden. these rules are primarily intended to protect against rabies, a disease that has been associated with great mystery and fear in folk belief. it's not for nothing that the disease is called water phobia. ireland, the united kingdom and sweden have been free of rabies for several years and the proposal for a regulation is therefore primarily relevant to those countries, even though the incidence of rabies has decreased throughout europe. however, we must take into account that the rules are designed to provide adequate protection against the spread of rabies primarily to rabies-free areas. after mad cow disease and foot-and-mouth disease, rabies cases in the uk, for example, due to changes in eu regulations, would create great distrust of the eu organisation. during the course of the case, the legal basis has been amended. the reasons for the amendment are that the regulation aims to protect public health. however, animal diseases, including those affecting companion animals, can also be very aggressive and cause great suffering. one example is aggressive forms of canine disease. i would therefore like to ask commissioner byrne: do you think that the safeguards provided for in other ec directives are sufficient to allow member states to take action against infectious diseases which can cause great suffering among pet animals? it is inexplicable to many that the rules for the transport of animals for commercial purposes are less stringent than for the same species of animals as pets. the undersigned therefore submitted to the committee a proposal for the commission to revise the existing regulation on trade in animals with a view to seeking harmonisation with the rules of this proposal for a regulation. this was also the committee's decision, but i would draw the attention of the bureau and the secretariat to the fact that the wording of the present proposal on this point has changed. many people believe that puppies and kittens cannot be infected with rabies and can therefore cross the borders of europe freely. it is therefore important that the proposal for a regulation in this part has been clarified. this is not least to curb the black trade in puppies and kittens without rabies protection, which is clearly taking place today. apart from dogs and cats, only domestic ferrets, the english ferret, can spread rabies from their pets. there is now scientific evidence that rabies vaccination of domestic ferrets works. according to the swedish state veterinary institute, domestic cats should continue to be vaccinated in the same way as dogs and cats. however, during the committee's deliberations, the list of measures was completely removed. however, the animals should be included in annex i, part a, together with the dog and cat, and if this is not supported, the animals should remain in part b as proposed by the commission. to leave out tamed animals is not responsible. we must remember that it is children and young people in particular who keep domestic animals as pets. finally, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr evans, for his excellent work on this matter.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission and ecofin's action against ireland was hasty and excessive. it has damaged the eu and the emu, not just ireland, as has been pointed out earlier. the opponents of emu in the non-euro area countries have been given extra wind in their sails. "that is what the national freedom to determine its own fiscal and fiscal policy was worth", the opponents of emu in my country cheerfully exclaim. i am sure you will soon hear herman schmid expressing something similar. there is a worrying trend towards total centralisation within the euro area countries. the relative weakness of the euro against the dollar seems to have triggered some overreactions. monetary policy is of course common, but fiscal, budgetary and tax policy cannot and should not be managed in detail from brussels. emu is an instrument for increasing the economic power of europe and that requires a certain acceptance that all the euro countries are not moving at exactly the same pace at the same time. the next time we have a case like ireland's, i hope, commissioner, that the commission will think twice. the emu must not become an iron cross for europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. olle schmidt is absolutely right. i would point out that when the economic situation changes - and the american trends will certainly also affect europe - a corresponding change in economic policy is of course necessary. i therefore agree with the many speakers, led by the rapporteur, mr giorgos katiforis, who have highlighted the need for public investment in education, research, environmental improvements and the like. it seems that, as philippe herzog also pointed out, there is dogmatic opposition to such a change. despite changing economic realities, policy must remain firm. in this context, it is important for individual countries to be able to trade more freely, and here i understand olle schmidt's concerns. i am very pleased that my own member state, sweden, is outside emu and therefore has the freedom of action which enables it to pursue a more realistic economic policy in the light of the changes in the economic situation.
commission. – on behalf of the commission, i should like to confirm the commission's position on the two amendments proposed to the common position. amendment 1 would allow bse-free member states to act unilaterally against imports of live animals. that is against the principle of community rules and superfluous since the common position includes harmonised rules for the marketing of animals in the light of the bse status. amendment 2 would make it more difficult to establish a clear epidemiological picture of the incidence of bse in contradiction to parliament's resolution of last november. for those reasons, and also with a view to putting in place the proper legal framework for the control of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies…(applause, calls of "encore!")…. transmissible spongiform encephalopathies without delay, the commission cannot accept either of these amendments. i hope that my pronunciation of this word with which i am not very familiar was clear to parliament.
as regards amendment no 4, the final version has been modified in terms of the text adopted in committee. this amended wording goes further. the original version ended with 'in order to try to achieve harmonisation', the new version ends with 'in order to harmonise'.
i would like to make an oral amendment to move 'tam iller', ferret in english, from part b of annex 1 to part a.
i would like to point out for the third time that amendment no 4 has been given a different wording in the final version than in the version adopted in committee. i myself wrote the amendment to the committee and it has been given a different, more far-reaching wording in the final version. i hope you'll look at it and make an adjustment.
in writing. on international journalists' day, 3 may, the european parliament voted rules which will conceal many eu documents. the eec/epc group is dissociating itself from the outcome of the closed negotiations and today we voted against the compromise between the european parliament and the major political groups, the council and the commission. the rules on transparency in the eu were discussed behind closed doors and the result shows unfortunately that the eu institutions see citizens as opponents rather than allies. the rules on which documents can be excluded from public access are so vague that it will not be difficult to withhold almost all documents without exception. internal documents are not defined and may be withheld if their disclosure would significantly affect the decision-making process. member states requiring the classification of documents also require that they not be registered, without it being clear which rules will govern this procedure. documents relating to the common foreign and defence policy may be withheld from the public in their entirety, as may documents relating to internal security. the rules will have an impact on all member states, with the result that the national ability to achieve greater transparency in member states' political processes will now be subordinated to the common sets of rules of the union. public debate on this subject was almost non-existent, and the closed procedure under which the rules were established did little to contribute to the project of bringing the union closer to the citizens. the result is that the rapporteurs have been hiding in the shadow of the swedish presidency in the hope that transparency and the public interest would be covered thanks to the long tradition of transparency in public administration in sweden. but it is clear that the swedes have engaged in a conciliation struggle which has secured consensus in the council rather than safeguarding the interests of the citizens. in other words, the swedes advocated the legalization of the regulation rather than defending the interests of the citizens, and today the european parliament has followed their example. the commission and the council can now relax, while the european parliament, for its own interests, has managed to give the public access to certain confidential documents without any guarantee that any document will be released. we cannot say that this is in the public interest, and it is now becoming clear that the citizens were hostages in a battle to defend the interests of the european parliament itself, in which the european parliament ultimately chose to sacrifice the hostages.
in writing. - (sv) we voted for the cashman report in favour of new, clearer rules for public access to public documents of the european institutions. the compromise which the european parliament is adopting today represents a major step forward towards greater transparency and greater efficiency in the institutions. in addition, the new rules are significantly better than the current situation with regard to public access to documents, which is not regulated by any law. at the same time, we see a number of problems with the new rules. sensitive documents classified as confidential, for example in the name of general security, are exempt from the principle of transparency and do not have to be entered in the registers. the author of a sensitive document is the one who decides whether the recipient can make it public. these rules are in total contradiction to the principle of swedish-style transparency, which has marked our administration for over 250 years. the swedish presidency has assured that the special rules on sensitive documents will only apply to documents relating to foreign and security policy. nevertheless, we see a major risk that they will eventually also include documents relating to other areas, for example cooperation under the schengen agreements and the common policy on refugees. we are also concerned that the swedish constitution, which has its roots in 1766, is threatened by ambiguous european rules. the introduction to the text states that the aim is not to amend existing legislation in the member states. at the same time, the commission obtained at the last minute that the reference to national legislation be deleted. we hope, however, that the commission will keep its promise and defend the right of the member states to take the decision independently to publish documents. throughout the decision-making process, the commission has opposed progress in transparency and the right of citizens to have a look, in favour of confidentiality. this shows that this outdated institution remains marked by bureaucracy and continues to balk at change. it is to be hoped that the new regulation on public access to documents will be an important step towards even clearer rules, rules which can form the basis of a modernised administration, where transparency and the right of access are self-evident. the regulation provides that a review of these rules will take place by 1 january 2004. we shall vote in favour of the report today, convinced that it is just one more step towards a more open european union. the european people's party will continue to work to advance this issue.
in writing. - s{v) i abstained on the vote on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. the compromise, worked out under the swedish presidency, has the effect of introducing the principle of transparency for the first time in the eu, and of adopting accessibility rather than confidentiality as a general rule. from a swedish point of view, i am afraid that this text agreed by the three eu institutions will lead to a weakening of our principle of transparency and our legislation, which dates back to the 18th century. this concerns in particular article 5 on the need to consult a european body in the event that the swedish authorities are uncertain about whether or not to apply the confidentiality rules. i am afraid that in such a situation the swedish authorities will censor themselves and will only reluctantly go against the directives given by the union, because they do not want to come into conflict with the european institutions. if so, european legislation on the principle of transparency could lead to a decline in public access to documents in my country.
in writing. -{sv) following a short but intensive procedure in the committee on civil liberties and human rights, the european parliament adopted a compromise proposal which was negotiated by a few members, the council, the swedish presidency and the commission. we are aware that this is a difficult and sensitive subject in many respects, not least because certain documents must be classified as confidential and kept out of the public eye, and the rules on openness and transparency differ widely from one member state to another. we regret, however, the way in which this matter has been dealt with in the committee on civil liberties, in this case by a procedure which is not in parliament's rules of procedure, or which has not been practised before. the result was, from the first reading, a conciliation procedure between the european parliament, the council and the commission, without members or the public having the opportunity to follow the proceedings. this is a curious fact, given that the subject was precisely one of transparency and the right to look. the greens/efa group believes that the issue of transparency should have been dealt with in a longer procedure, which would have given european citizens a better chance of following the development of the case.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we all know, tobacco smoking causes very serious adverse effects on public health. it is important to note that these negative effects affect not only smokers themselves but also those who are exposed to smoke, allergy sufferers, and many others. smoking also leads to a sharp increase in health-care costs in many countries. as politicians, we have a duty to warn of the dangers of smoking, to reduce the harmfulness of tobacco products and to try to tackle misinformation. i believe that the compromise we have reached with the council of ministers is a clear step in the right direction in this area. in the gue/ngl group, for example, we are particularly pleased with the requirements for lower tar content, nicotine and carbon monoxide limits, clearer warning texts and the requirement for companies to account for additives. we regard the results in these areas as major progress. in two areas we would have liked to see action taken more quickly, but we believe that at least we are on the right track. this concerns the ban on misleading brand names, which does not specify a year for implementation, which we would have liked to see. that's a future mission. there is at least a commitment to that in the future. we would also have liked to see more rapid progress on banning the export of tobacco products which are not authorised under eu rules. it is a little inconvenient that it is possible to export things which we consider to be hazardous to health in our own countries. we would have preferred to see a simultaneous ban in the eu and an export ban on these products, but at least a ban has been set for 2007. the swedish snus has been discussed earlier in this conciliation, and we believe that a good solution has been found in that area as well. it means that the exception for sweden, to keep the traditional snus, is maintained without opening up the market in other eu countries. we believe that other eu countries have the right to refuse this product if they want to give it up, as many of them certainly do. on the whole, we are very satisfied with the outcome of the conciliation and believe that the rapporteur has done a good job. if you want to be a little critical, you can say that the eu has a problem with credibility in terms of tobacco policy as a whole. perhaps a billion euros a year is still spent on subsidies for tobacco cultivation. if we are to have more credibility in the fight against the harmful effects of tobacco smoking, perhaps it is time to start phasing out these subsidies.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the council adopted most of the proposals adopted by parliament at first reading. we got through the main points of principle, such as the fact that the user level, i.e. those who challenge the animals, should also be covered by the control. this is a success, as about two thirds of all animal feed in the union is produced on farms. what the council, and possibly the commission, has not taken note of, however, is that we have replaced the word 'contaminated' with 'contains foreign substances'. this isn't really a play on words. the term 'contaminated' must be defined scientifically as substances and/or bacteria which have been introduced from outside, whereas 'contains foreign substances' also includes those which are naturally formed, for example during storage, when fats oxidize and mycotoxins are formed. there are a lot of substances that are clearly unsuitable in feed, but they don't come from outside. they have arisen in natural processes that should not have occurred. you must not let the hay mould, it will be dangerous. i have accepted all the amendments which call for it not to be called 'contaminated' but 'contains dangerous substances'. we have also adopted amendment no 24 from the first reading, which deals with community control. in this case, the council referred to a settlement reached with bart staes after we had started work on the report at first reading. i have now amended the amendment to incorporate the wording of the tse regulation adopted at the last plenary session in brussels. we should strive to create clear, uniform and easy-to-understand legislation. i have therefore chosen to copy verbatim the wording of the tse regulation on community control. it is easier for those who are to administer and enforce the laws if at least the standard provisions which appear in directive after directive are worded in the same way. i think it's very important. bart staes will be tabled an oral amendment in this area which involves some extension, and which i can accept. it is vital that we have a comprehensive control system throughout the union. it is not a matter of much concern, though it is hard work, to establish good laws throughout the food safety chain that we are now working on. the big problem is control and compliance. the good laws, my dear colleagues, are a good thing, but they are only words on paper unless they are monitored and enforced!
- (sv) mr president, with the two proposals we are now considering, an important step has been taken in reducing the amount of waste from electronic equipment. instead of throwing away all the household appliances and computer components, as is now the case, we are laying down the legal basis for individual collection and recycling in all the eu member states. the basic principle of the recycling proposal is that the recyclers are paid. it is not sufficient that the costs of collection and recycling have not been passed on to consumers. these costs must be included in the total cost of the product. it is therefore important that the costs of collection and recycling are integrated into the price of the product as a separate, visible contribution. only when these costs have been integrated into the price are the actual environmental costs reflected in the price. it is also important that every company pays the cost of its products. such a scheme does not constitute an obstacle to practical cooperation in the field of collection and recycling. individual economic responsibility is however more efficient and fair than a common economic responsibility. an individual system for new waste favours producers who use the best materials and make products with a simple construction so that they are easily recyclable. the environmental benefits of products are a product development incentive. the rapporteur is aware that the various political groups have succeeded at an early stage in reaching compromise on several important areas. we greatly appreciate it and we believe that the position of the parliament in the further negotiating circle with the council has been strengthened. we support the objective of increasing the number of products collected and the number of products that can be recycled. as regards the second proposal for a directive on the restriction of the use of dangerous substances in electronic equipment, we think that the environment committee could have gone further with its amendments, particularly as regards the ban on fire retardants. recently we have read alarming reports on the increase in these substances and the dangers they may pose to health. we also believe that member states should already have the possibility of imposing stricter requirements on such products. the commission has recently turned a blind eye to the swedish authorities' insistence on strict environmental standards in the area of dangerous substances when purchasing 400 000 computers. we find it totally unacceptable that the commission and the eu procurement rules prevent member states from imposing stricter environmental requirements on product development in this area.
- (sv) mr president, i too join in the many congratulations which we would like to extend to our own shadow rapporteur, mrs van brempt, for the excellent but difficult work she has done. i think we have achieved good results, although in certain areas we have to meet stricter requirements. the most important is, however, the establishment of producer responsibility, which in my view means the greatest environmental gain. i also regard your proposal as a step forward for all progressive and environmentally conscious companies that are already working in this way. they are given the opportunity to develop their ecological ideas and products in an environmentally friendly way, which is comparable with other companies. mr de roo and mr sjöstedt have spoken well on the subject of dangerous substances, but i would like to mention the bridged fire retardants. it's a pity we couldn't get on the train any further. the scientific evidence that these substances are dangerous and have an effect on health has also been scientifically demonstrated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is curious that we are uncertain about your problem and are limited to two types of fire retardants. we know that these substances are dangerous. we know that children get attention deficit disorder and other types of disorder such as weight loss can occur when these substances are in the body, even though they have never been asked to get these substances in their body. the directive on dangerous substances is based on article 95 and the directive on waste electrical and electronic products on article 175. i can't understand that. when we discussed a similar directive on concept vehicles, most members saw this directive as a model for the future, but the memory left many clearly in the dark. i would like to see this issue brought into line with the theme of this evening, namely sustainable development. here again, the internal market is determining how far we want to go in the field of the environment, and countries that want to go further are being punished. that's not right.
the rapporteur. - (sv) mr president, the swedish version of amendment no 5 is incorrect. in the case of the disabled, all the necessary help is needed. in the english version, the wording is correct. the english text is therefore desirable as the basis for the vote to be used.
in writing. (sv) we swedish members of the moderate group believe that this directive contributes to the protection of the environment. the basic principles of the directive on the responsibility of producers for the products they produce and on the possibilities for consumers to choose environmentally friendly products are also of particular importance. the wording of article 7 is somewhat vague. we interpret it as follows: the financing referred to in point 2 concerns very generally the conversion of electrical and electronic equipment into waste. the member states will thus be able to opt for collective financing, for example through taxes, as an alternative within a decade. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community. after this period, derogations may be granted only if they are approved by the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
- (sv) madam president, as rapporteur of a report on sustainable development, i have long awaited this day. i am pleasantly surprised that the president of the commission has mentioned both the political level, which i consider very important, and the local level. as both levels of cooperation, we are all one step ahead. the european union has also had to deal with the global level and it is good that we are clear about that. i would like to hear more concrete cases. what does this strategy mean for the union's actions in the field of trade and investment? finally, should we consider it as an overarching policy instrument for all the activities of the union? how should we approach a strategy for sustainable development?
- (sv) madam president, i thank the president of the commission for a proposal which has a vision of the future in a political landscape which is too often shortsighted. i regret, however, that your proposal comes only a few weeks before the gothenburg summit, making a real dialogue with all those involved impossible. my first question to mr prodi is how he will ensure that the follow-up and further development of the process after the gothenburg summit will be the subject of as wide a dialogue as possible between the various parties. mr prodi gave a valuable signal to the outside world by saying that sustainable development must be seen on a world level. my second question is, how is the short-term strategy affected? the eu's activities in a whole range of areas - trade policy, fisheries policy, energy policy and so on - naturally have repercussions on the situation in other countries. it is not just a question of internal affairs, which are then dealt with by other countries. the whole thing must be integrated. what will your process look like?
- i thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that the overwhelming majority of irish economies are making it clear that the problem is one currency and one uniform economic policy in countries with totally different economic situations. i have a supplementary question for the commissioner. it was judged that the irish economy would have benefited from a higher interest rate and a stronger, higher-denominated currency. do you think that the current situation would be more favourable for the irish economy?
- i like the very short halt. mijn vraag luidt as follows: but what about the case of ireland, which has become the only country in emu with a significant economic weight in the common currency? do you think that the irish case is less serious because it concerns a country of less economic importance?
- (sv) the main factor for change is that the wage differential is being made visible, not only at national level but also in every enterprise and in every economic sector, in other words at the level of wage negotiations. the level at which an analysis of men's and women's wages is necessary to take measures against discriminatory wages. sweden and finland already have legislation requiring employers to draw up annual plans for equal treatment, including the plan for equal pay for equal work. the commission on women's rights and equal opportunities voted yesterday evening for a proposal to introduce this system throughout the union. i would ask the commissioners if they are prepared to support your proposal.
- (sv) mr president, when the shipwreck of the erica was reported, the commission took a whole series of measures. that's good, but it would have been much better if the accident had been prevented, instead of the other way around. two things are interesting about you. ten eerste was de erica registered in malta. this is not the first time that a vessel flying the maltese flag has suffered shipwreck. the commission has therefore set out the main priorities for the accession negotiations. secondly, erica was inspected by an italian classification bureau. the controls by your bureau were inadequate. evidence of this is also that the elephant sun also died by that agency was inspected, less than a year after erica's son. therefore, the stricter requirements on classification agencies are one of the main elements in your proposal on which we have to take a position. a good arrangement would have a lot of questions raised by your classification bureau, and a decision by others. other measures are also needed. the rules for a double-booking should be as strict as in the us. rules alone are not sufficient, however. the devil sun was only eleven years old and had a double bow. the vessel was however poorly maintained, had a poorly trained crew and had been prohibited from sailing three times before the accident in a dutch port. the strengthening of port state controls and the improvement of minimum standards for vessels and classification agencies are also of the utmost importance. the commission's proposal is a crucial step in the right direction.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i shall concentrate on one area, namely environmental issues. there are concerns about cooperation between the us and the eu in this particular area. i appreciate the clarity that the swedish presidency has shown in its opening remarks on these issues. there is a growing consensus among experts on the problems of global warming and its consequences. moreover, it is clearly the responsibility of the rich world to reach international agreements by ratifying the kyoto protocol. the united states has a special responsibility, since it is the world's largest emitter. the question is how to act. will our actions result in a markedly anti-american attitude? no, of course not! however, we should continue to be clear and frank in our dialogue with the united states on these issues. the fact that the united states has not ratified the convention should not prevent us from moving forward on the eu side. we must take the lead in the world in ratification and continue the dialogue with the united states to bring it into the future. this must be our attitude. the gothenburg summit is a great opportunity to highlight these issues. in addition to the visit by mr bush, sustainable development is also the main theme of the gothenburg summit.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution. this initiative and the way it has been classified represents, in my view, a wrong way of dealing with constitutional issues in the european parliament, which are as fundamental as those of the european decisionmaking mechanism as a whole, with a proposal to abolish the pillar structure in the legal field in favour of the community method with full co-decision rights for the european parliament. the posselt report has not been considered by the committee on constitutional affairs, which is a clear defect. the wording of paragraph 33, for example, is very unclear and, moreover, is not supported by any argument, as this is a matter as important as whether or not the european union should have a special unit dedicated to the protection of european borders.
in writing. (sv) we believe that the guidelines for alcohol policy should be decided at national level. issues such as taxation, monopoly on the sale of alcoholic beverages, advertising, restrictions on their importation and the age limit should all be decided by the member states. the stihler report is a council recommendation on this subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - (sv) the swedish alcohol policy differs from that of the other member states. restrictive sales of alcoholic beverages, prohibition of advertising and high age limits for purchasers are important means of containing the harmful effects of alcohol, both among adults and young people. it's a system we want to preserve. the stihler report on alcohol consumption among children and young people, which is very detailed, is a good example of the union's penchant for meddling in every detail. we are convinced that the european level is not the right one to decide on such precise rules, for example on how to dispose of alcohol in shops. work to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol on young people and children must be adapted to the rules applicable in the various member states concerning the sale of alcohol. we shall therefore vote against this report.
in writing. - (sv) i voted against the sturdy report. the reason is that this proposal is still based on the wrong principle, namely that of carrying out redistributions as part of an excessive european agricultural policy, instead of tackling it in a coordinated and radical way. we move problems to new areas, or we don't deal with them. the report also relies on increased financial commitments for the eu and taxpayers, in favour of the food production sector, in this case, to promote the sale of beef to consumers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to thank you. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a very balanced report. the best thing would have been if the committee on women had not had to make any special gender-specific comments on the design of pension systems - if we had lived in the best of worlds where gender equality prevailed. however, this is not the case. the injustices that women suffer throughout their lives are also reflected in their later years. it is gratifying that the committee on employment has incorporated the main points made by the committee on women. someone has said that "if men had been consistently disadvantaged in pension systems, the fundamentals would have been fundamentally changed long ago". the committee recalls the objectives of the lisbon process, as does cercas. women's right to their own income and thus to economic self-determination is very important. today, the female employment rate in europe ranges from 38 to 71%. in general, more women must have the opportunity to work. in addition, both women and men should be able to choose freely between gainful employment and a break from professional activity to care for family members. the co-taxation of income in many member states, as well as the lack of child and elderly care, are a few explanations for why many women are unable to enter or remain in the labour market. an important principle is that care for children and relatives should be compensated in pension schemes. a more equal europe also means a fairer europe, a europe that can cope with both employment and future pensions. improving gender equality can only be achieved through a change in fundamental attitudes and in cooperation between men and women. a more equal distribution of responsibilities for home and family can lay the foundations for a more equal working life and a labour market characterised by equal opportunities and equal pay for equal work. this also leads to a fairer pension system.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think there are many good things in the commission's report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a good job. there is a lot of talk about solidarity and security. that is precisely what we should be talking about in the case of pensions. nevertheless, there is great concern about the pension debate. my colleagues have expressed concern about some important points. in my home country, sweden, we have already begun to adapt to this type of change, and a significant part of our future pension system will be linked to a supplementary pension based on what happens in the capital markets. in sweden, most people have started buying and selling shares. over the past year, many of them have experienced firsthand the risks of buying stocks. many have lost large portions of their savings and are now wondering whether the same thing will happen when you have a pension system that is heavily dependent on what happens in the capital market. there's a concern that it's going to be an unfair system. above all, there may be a concern that it will be an insecure system. our group has tabled an amendment for tomorrow's vote in which we ask that at least the impact of the new system be evaluated and then the effects on solidarity in society be examined. what about security? how are the women? several speakers, including jensen and lancker, have pointed to women as a particularly vulnerable group, and in many countries i believe that women could be put in a difficult position by the system now being introduced. i would also like to mention our amendment no 13, which calls for a general increase in the retirement age as a way of solving future pension problems. it is tempting to try to increase not only the level of employment and the employment rate but also to reduce the pressure on pension systems. however, it requires that people are able to work until a high retirement age. in some countries this may work because there is already a relatively low retirement age, at least for some of the retired population. but in my country and in the other scandinavian countries, where there is already a relatively high retirement age of 65-67 years, there is now talk of raising the limit to 70 years. i think that's unrealistic. most people are worn out by a long working life long before they reach retirement age. in that situation it is stupid and inhumane to try to pressure people to remain in the labour market. finally, i would like to say that i find it regrettable that neither the commission nor the report we are discussing today makes any mention of the applicant countries. it is a problem for the future, but when we talk about pensions, we are talking about the future. there should have been a discussion, of course, about what a system of the kind we are now trying to introduce will mean for the poor candidate countries.
thank you for your answer. it is in a sense a positive thing if it is to be interpreted as meaning that the eurogroup does not really take any decisions either. my first supplementary question is: is it really the case that no real decisions are taken in the eurogroup, or are the decisions already taken when the matter reaches the ecofin, which only has to follow what has been decided in the eurogroup? my second question is about the future. the presidency is aware that there have been proposals from some quarters, not least from belgium, to develop the so-called informal euro council and to add more functions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency. so my second supplementary question is: can we be sure that the eurogroup will not in fact take over more and more real power in the future? it is very important for the countries outside the euro to be able to be outside the euro area in practice without losing control over what does not directly concern the euro.
thank you for your answer. as president-in-office of the council, i am certainly referring to eu documents received by nations. the eu has now adopted a new regulatory framework, a regulation, on the basis of article 355, which provides a more solid legal basis. the regulation talks about loyalty to eu rules. it also says that you should ask for guidance in unclear cases. if the commission and the court of justice of the european communities find, on the basis of this regulation, that a country cannot, at national level, disclose eu documents which are classified at eu level, the community legislation may be contrary to the swedish principle of public access. does the president-in-office of the council consider that such a scenario is out of the question? if so, why?
i would like to thank the swedish presidency and i would like to thank mr danielsson for his reply. i would also like to thank you for the dedicated work that has been done to give the eu a new attitude to the principle of public access to eu documents, a principle of publicity. but i do have one question. can we see a development in sweden where swedish officials are imposing self-censorship in situations where there are different assessments in brussels and at european authority level in relation to sweden as to whether the confidentiality rules should be applied or not? this question of self-censorship and of being able to have one's own swedish opinion when a different assessment is made in brussels is a relevant topic of discussion.
i would like to thank the swedish presidency and lars danielsson for the detailed reply and the very generous closing remarks. the european parliament's decision to make a written declaration on the holocaust, following up on prime minister göran persson's initiative to hold a stockholm conference on the subject in january 2000, shows that we are happy to see the member states establish a national, or even a european, day of remembrance. i would like to point out the unique opportunity and the special authority which prime minister göran persson has as president of the european union at the moment and as the initiator of this conference, to get even more countries than those just mentioned by mr danielsson to set a date and perhaps find a common one. i welcome the work being done to combat racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism. my concrete follow-up question is: is the prime minister prepared to update during the remainder of the swedish presidency - if only informally - the possibility of an anniversary in various countries to commemorate the holocaust?
in writing. - sv) i voted against the report for the following reasons: article 308 of the treaty does not constitute a legal basis giving the european parliament the right to deal with the matter at this time. the statutes are discriminatory from a democratic and financial point of view by setting high thresholds for who wants to be considered a european party. this does not guarantee justice for minorities, nor does it guarantee their protection. finally, there is the obvious danger, in the direction of american policy, of recognising the right of companies to give financial support to those recognised as european political parties. the ratification of the treaty of nice by the parliaments and governments of the 15 member states will take place at the earliest by the end of 2001. only then will the question of the financing of european political parties be dealt with in depth by the european parliament. today, the decision is rushed. this decision will be examined by the luxembourg court of justice in order to determine whether article 308 of the treaty can actually be regarded as a legal basis. i am convinced that today's decision will then be declared unconstitutional and annulled. article 308 reads as follows: 'if action by the community should prove necessary to attain, in the functioning of the common market, one of the objectives of the community, without this treaty having provided the necessary powers of action for that purpose, the council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, shall take the appropriate measures.' for a party association to be eligible for tax-funded grants at european level, the european parliament considers that it must obtain at least five per cent of the votes in at least one third of the member states, or be represented in the european parliament, the national or regional parliament in one third of the member states. the commission does not want a relative number but a definite number of member states (five, regardless of the size of the union). the democratic threshold is set very high, far too high, by the european parliament, and that is striking. large groups of citizens, who have representatives in this institution, can be excluded from this tax financing of political parties at european level. the wording of article 3 on the vision of european political associations and national parties shows a vision of the future which i cannot share in any way: 'of the party or its national components'. the european parliament has therefore defined national political parties as future 'national components', a kind of regional organisation of what will be called european political parties, which deserve to be supported by the funding of european taxpayers. the christian democratic party of sweden, led by birger ekstedt at its launch in 1963 and by alf svensson from 1973, and founded by generous, persevering pioneers who were true to the primary meaning of the christian conception of man, ethics and the idea of the family for society, represents something much more important and essential to democracy than what is described as "a national component".
by hand. the pace of the imposition of sanctions on israel, madam minister anna lindh! in the edition of today (16 may 2001) of the french newspaper "libération", one of the most well-known pacifists in israel, the writer david grossman notes that, for those who do not believe in miracles or appreciate catastrophes, there is only one way to alter the situation in the middle east, namely "international pressures". it also affirms that it is israel, as occupier, which bears the principal responsibility, but that it is israel which most accurately represents its external pressures. since the us never does anything that israel dislikes, there is an important international role that the us represents. the eu is by far the largest donor of financial and administrative aid and the largest supporter of the palestinian authority. the politicians of the eu claim that the union should be represented by a political correspondent. why should we not accept the challenge, doing what the united states does not want to do, but what both the palestinians and the israelis who want peace are asking us to do, namely, putting concrete pressure on israel? in the light of international law, there are formal grounds for the application of economic sanctions against israel, as a commission confirmed violations of the eu association agreement, in that products originating from illegal israeli settlements in the occupied territories are sold to the eu, indicating as country of origin 'israel'. is it really true that a new eu intervention force is not designed to protect the interests of the eu super-power, but, as the foreign minister anna lindh used to say, serves only to make peace in the world, because it does not propose to deploy in the middle east, along the only line of legal separation between israel and palestine, which is the 1967 border? unfortunately, when today the minister, mrs anna lindh, presented to the european parliament the eu's policy on the middle east, nothing was heard. foremost among them are the words, but nothing concrete, nothing that could in any way put an end to the bloodshed and illegal occupation of palestine by israel. but tragically, sweden's own voice has remained silent on palestine. the work of the former swedish foreign minister, sten andersson, was not taken up by his successor, anna lindh, but by his danish colleague, mogens lycketoft, who spoke out against the violations of human rights and international law by israel. the minister anna lindh therefore seems to have capitulated to the forces that dare not confront israel and the usa, both as president-in-office of the eu and as swedish minister for foreign affairs. it is a pity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the treaty of nice is usually marketed as an enlargement treaty. i mean, it's not right. the institutional issues of enlargement have not been resolved by the treaty of nice. moreover, most of what was decided in nice has nothing to do with enlargement. as the report points out, the distribution of seats in the european parliament must be rearranged, as there is direct discrimination against hungary and the czech republic. it can be done in the accession treaties, just as these matters can be regulated in general in the accession treaties, as they did for example for sweden, austria and finland when we entered the european union. the treaty of nice is really about something else. it is about strengthening the power of the large eu countries at the expense of the small ones. all the applicant countries, with the exception of poland, are therefore also losers, since they are small countries in the european union. the decision-making process in the council of ministers is becoming more complex, not easier. the other main features of the treaty of nice are the increase in the supremacy of the state and the abolition of the right of veto in several areas. there are also some distinctly federalist elements, such as support for european political parties and the new process of appointing the european commission, which makes the commission increasingly resemble a government with a prime minister. the real content of the treaty of nice is that an enlarged union will be dominated by the same large countries that dominate today's european union and that the march towards a federalist state formation in the eu continues, even if the pace of development is not as fast as some in this house would wish. it is therefore not difficult for my party and for me to vote against both the treaty of nice and the report on which we are going to vote tomorrow. it is important to note, however, that there are also some positive elements in the report. among other things, open ministerial meetings are required. it would have been reasonable to have taken such a decision in nice, i.e. to open the legislative assembly to public scrutiny. the distribution of seats in the european parliament must also be changed, which is a necessary democratic requirement. but we don't believe in the convention method. we don't really see the point of having a convention to work out the next treaty amendment. if, after all, there is a convention, we believe it should be a convention of those who decide on the treaty, namely the national parliaments. we hope that the swedish presidency and the swedish government will not shrink an inch from the view that it is the national parliaments which should have the right to decide on the treaties and that it is they who should guide the development of the treaties. what would you have done in nice? we would have liked to see the eu democratized, the power of officials and the commission reduced, the power of national parliaments increased, the council of ministers more open and transparent, the dominance of the free market over environmental and social considerations changed, and the dogmatic monetarism which is the basis of monetary union reconsidered. now we see how the social democratic governments have begun to fall around the eu. nothing really has happened to the foundations of the eu during the time we have had a 'red-green' dominance in the eu. the opportunity is about to pass, and the foundations of the eu have not changed in either the 'red' or the 'green' direction, which we regret.
mr president, i would like to thank you. obviously, there is a lot to be said about the treaty of nice. it is positive that the formal obstacles to enlargement have been removed and that the union is now constitutionally ready for its important task of unifying europe. we now hope for a clearer timetable and, hopefully, a date for the summit in gothenburg in a few weeks' time. but there are some major problems with the treaty: decision-making is not becoming easier, more efficient or more understandable to citizens. it also leaves much to be desired in terms of democracy. too many decisions will continue to be taken behind closed doors in the council - without democratic control, transparency or participation by parliament. the method of the igc is a bit like the papal election. for several days, the delegates are locked in to negotiate while the outside world eagerly awaits the white smoke, a sign that the compromise is complete. in the meantime, nobody knows what's going on. but now the next treaty will have to be prepared in a different way, together with the citizens. it is important to remember these solemn speeches when the plans for laeken are being drawn up. maybe it's a convention after all. it is no secret that the majority of this house is in favour of it. this is the most open and democratic way of preparing proposals. now, however, rumors are swirling that there will be a convention without government representatives. what's it gonna be then? a discussion club, an alibi that the ministers then go over in the usual way? that's not a good solution! it is also time to turn our backs on nice and look ahead. we do that in the european parliament too, perhaps not so much today, but we will do it. some heads of government do too. i also hope that more heads of government and ministers will take part in the debate on the future of europe. the foreign minister spoke of the concept of federalism and the different emotions it evokes. that's true, and the content is of course more important than the concept. federalism, however, with its various interpretations, is a vision of a more democratic europe. different visions of the european project are necessary for the european debate, so that citizens will eventually know what issues to take a stand on.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to add my voice to the praise that many members have paid to seguro and mendez de vigo. i share corbett's view that if the rapporteurs had not done such a good job, there would have been a high probability that parliament would have recommended a 'no' to nice. although i share the criticism, i think that a no is much worse than a yes. the reason is that the important enlargement process would then have been delayed, which is something i do not want to happen. i agree with much of the criticism. the main criticisms are that the treaty of nice is more difficult to understand, which also affects the ability of citizens to participate in the european debate. it's a difficult treaty that's hard to understand. in addition, it risks becoming inefficient by making it more difficult to take decisions by qualified majority. it is true that more areas are covered by qualified majority voting, but these are not so heavy. the really important areas were not included in this form of decision-making, which is unfortunate now that the union is enlarging. this is something we have to change. we need more decisions by qualified majority and the co-decision of parliament. the second criticism concerns the transparency and the way in which the treaty was negotiated. i've heard some people compare the negotiations to a papal election where you lock yourself in a room and then come out with a compromise. no outsiders were allowed to participate in the process. let's not do this again. let us start the convention, and let it be the starting point for the next igc. that does not mean that we should not have national debates with organisations and others. in this context, i also think it is important that we take responsibility as politicians. we must not make the institutional debate the main issue, but we must start with the issues: what do we really want to do with the eu? how is this to be done? what tools will we use? we need to start the debate on the slow motion.
mr president, mr president of the council! the nice intergovernmental conference will make possible the enlargement of the eu. that was also its main function. the treaty will be ratified by all 15 national parliaments of the member states in 2001, no matter how dissatisfied and critical the majority here in the european parliament is. therefore, we swedish christian democrats believe that paragraph 42 on the european parliament's consent to the accession treaties for the candidate countries could be worded much more positively and welcomingly. how will paragraph 42 be received in estonia, poland or cyprus? my party cannot accept paragraph 25 either, which opens the door to the introduction of a european taxation system of its own - and with qualified majority voting rules. all historical experience shows that new levels of taxation and new levels of decision-making on tax collection lead to higher taxes and less money left for citizens. another key issue for the decisionmaking powers of each national parliament and government is defence policy. the christian democratic party of sweden cannot therefore accept paragraph 34, which calls for defence policy to be included in the so-called closer cooperation. at the same time, my party would like to welcome two historic improvements proposed in the report. firstly, it is time to improve the transparency and control of the council's work by the citizens and the national parliaments, and to make the council's meetings open when the council acts as legislator. in order to be able to speak about democracy and not just about diplomacy within the eu, we must have this openness, that is, we say yes to paragraph 11 and amendment no 68. finally, the principle of subsidiarity needs to be clarified. we therefore say to the ppe amendment 77 on the delimitation of the powers of the eu.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. i can forgive the previous speaker for speaking too long on this subject. five minutes to debate sustainable development in a 25-year perspective is not much, and it's an art to be able to stick to that time margin exactly in the second. the question is what do we mean by "sustainability strategy"? is this a new political ploy we are trying to invent here in parliament? no, it's not that. it's a legacy that goes back further. we have a mission since the decision was made in rio almost 10 years ago that every nation should maintain a sustainability strategy. what is sustainability? what are we really talking about when we talk about sustainability? we're discussing the future of future generations. we discuss what kind of development, what kind of life we want for future generations, in other words how their lives are to be managed in terms of social issues, ecological development and the economy. however, we must bear in mind that it is easy for us who live in a relatively small, rich part of the world to say that we want to leave behind a legacy with a situation as good as the one we have. the desire of the vast majority of the world must be that their children have a better life than they have. the process in parliament of producing this document, which is nevertheless to be a kind of background, contribution to the gothenburg summit, leaves a lot to be desired. parliament has had to run a kind of parallel race with the commission in order to produce, or at least to have the opportunity to express its views on how this development should be. it's not satisfactory. the commission may have had plenty of time to do so, but parliament should be given a real opportunity to discuss these issues - not just from an environmental point of view. the whole of parliament, committees dealing with social or economic issues and all other committees actually concerned should be involved. otherwise we will confine the question to an environmental issue, which it is not. as regards the policy areas which it would be desirable to deal with in such a document, particularly in view of the direction that the question is to take in gothenburg, i think we must start from the ecological perspective. both the social and the economic aspects are of course important, and we know that they govern our lives. however, without a well-functioning planet in ecological terms, it will be very difficult to discuss economic and social issues. it simply requires that we have an ecology in balance. the commission's text, which we believe is based on the current economic systems, may not be entirely satisfactory. it's like you haven't understood the beauty of the crow song. it's about using the economy that exists. it's about trying to set the boundaries you want for the market. it is a question of finding the instruments that we ourselves can use in our own budget and in our own procurement. if we are to develop a sustainability strategy for the european union, we must take account of the problems within the union, but it is absolutely impossible to isolate the union from the rest of the world. we have to see ourselves as part of the planet, of the global context. what we do in the union affects our environment. we should not export things we do not want ourselves. we must review our trade relations and our agricultural policy and the negative effects it has on the development prospects of other countries. we also have a responsibility in international trade relations. without the local perspective, there is no sustainability strategy. the beauty of the work on agenda 21 was that it provided and provides opportunities for ngos, local actors, municipalities and citizens to participate in the process and understand what it is all about. finally, it is a matter of individual responsibility and the need for a change in behaviour in all areas. the commission, but of course also the council, must think about how to encourage and make people feel involved, so that this is not just a message from above. finally, i would like to say something about political leadership. it is necessary that the message to be given in gothenburg is clear for this to work. it can't just be an empty manifesto. there must also be evidence that the commission and the council really want to go from words to action.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. sustainable development involves many factors. it's very easy to write about beautiful dreams and use big words. i would like to see the council in gothenburg dare to point forward. at the same time, i would like to see a bold step taken to look at the eu's own accounts, at its own subsidy system. blokland mentions it in paragraph 5 and hulthén in paragraph 33 of his report, namely that we need to review agricultural subsidies. thankfully, the commission's message is a little more pointed. it says: 'in the 2002 review of the cap, quality should be given more weight than quantity.' agriculture is still europe's modernising force, insofar as it is agriculture and forestry that represent our cultural heritage, our recreation and our biodiversity. it's about chemicals and plant nutrients in water. it's about air and public health. then you have to ask yourself: how sustainable is the european union's own system of agricultural subsidies? is it not time to use some of that money for sustainable development, for rural development, for the conservation of biodiversity, for the removal of chemicals, for food that we can eat with joy and security? what if the european council dared to take such an initiative and pointed its hand and said: "this is where we're going!"
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to say a few words about the commission's proposal on sustainable development. it is clear that it could have gone much further in many areas, but i must say that it was sharper than expected and that it contains several proposals which, if implemented, will really make a difference to current environmental policy. i would like to highlight in particular the demands to restrict road transport, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to eliminate harmful subsidies, to change the procurement rules in an environmentally friendly way and to adapt agricultural policy. if this is done, it is a major step in change. the question now is whether these concrete proposals will survive the council meeting in gothenburg. i hope they will do so, and that these proposals will not be removed from the final document, but that they will remain and that the general arguments may be shortened. i think that this can be a real contribution to changing this policy. i wish the swedish presidency good luck with that. however, in one area the proposal is inadequate, namely in terms of international cooperation and relations with the world trade organisation and environmental rules.
mr president, commissioner, president of the council! i should like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for their excellent reports. it is of the utmost importance that this issue of sustainable development now stands high on the political agenda. it is a question of solidarity, that is solidarity with future generations, solidarity within the eu with poorer regions and poorer people, and global responsibility, the way the eu acts in trade and development policy towards the rest of the world. sustainable development is relevant to all policy areas. it is known that it concerns transport policy, agricultural policy and energy policy, but it also concerns social policy. i do not share the views of the previous speaker on this. social policy is also part of sustainable development. good social policy and a fair economic policy are important. sustainable development is also about a variety of approaches. it is not that the current methods of legislation are bad. the legislation must continue. the legislation we have in the eu must be better implemented. we must use the tax instruments, as has been pointed out many times by parliament. the new thing is that we are going to integrate the ecological aspects into the so-called lisbon process. the next council meeting in barcelona in the spring will not only deal with economic, social, lifelong learning, investment and industrial policy issues, but will also be a 'sustainability council' by integrating ecological aspects into policy. the important thing is this new strategy which is being developed and which we warmly support in this parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, hulthén and blokland, on two important reports, not only for us who are here today, but also for future generations. of course my group fully supports these two reports. both demonstrate the need to integrate environmental, social and economic policies if we are to achieve sustainable development. but it must be done now and not be a goal for the future. the cardiff process is good, but it is too slow. the fact that there must be a break in the trend - to put it mildly - is also quite clear. as environment minister kjell larsson says, political courage is now needed in all institutions and in all camps. the commission's document on integrating environmental policy into economic policy states that there is no contradiction between economic growth and environmental protection. but how is it that increased production and consumption have eaten up all the environmental efforts that we have actually made and are making? such a view is not really outdated. economic development must therefore be adapted to ecological requirements, otherwise there will be no sustainable development. that's a realization we all need to have. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. they simply have to be phased out. we can't afford to keep them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the sixth environmental action programme is perhaps the most important policy document we have to take up during this mandate, as it will guide environmental legislation and policy in the eu for a long time to come. it is also a key pillar of the sustainable development strategy. i would like to commend riitta myller, who has worked very well with the shadow rapporteurs. she has also involved us at a very early stage by allowing us to put forward proposals which she has then taken into account. i think we have raised the level of ambition in the commission's document, particularly in terms of the scope, objectives and timetables of the programme. the commission and commissioner wallström were heavily criticised for the proposal's too tame and low level of ambition. criticism came from all sides, including the two institutions, the council and parliament. i would like to thank margot wallström, however, for the fact that we do have a sixth environmental action programme. we may have forgotten that the commission did not want a sixth environmental action programme in the first place. it was only at the hearing in the committee on the environment, in connection with wallström's candidacy for the post of commissioner, that the promise of a sixth action programme was given. i am convinced that it has taken not only political courage but also a great deal of tenacity and strength to implement this promise, which is important to remember. there are many important points which i probably will not have time to deal with now, but i would nevertheless like to point out that the committee has done a good job in establishing the thematic strategies, objectives, means and timetable in a framework directive, so that the matter can be dealt with in a democratic way in parliament and the council, and so that we can enter into the decision-making process and influence it. i also think it is good that the wording on public procurement, biodiversity, the precautionary principle and the substitution principle has been included in the chemical strategy.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. it has been very exciting to be part of the journey leading up to the decision on strategic environmental impact assessments that we are about to make. the idea behind environmental impact assessments for plans and programmes is old. the original draft directive came in the 1970s. it then covered policies, plans, programmes and projects. however, the commission changed its mind and decided to propose a directive covering only environmental impact assessments of projects. the next step was taken in 1991 when the commission presented a proposal for a directive on environmental impact assessments also for policies, plans and programmes. however, this proposal was born amid a lively debate on the balance of power within the then european community, and it was met with such resistance that it was withdrawn in 1992. the commission did not give up and stated in the fifth environmental action programme that an impact assessment of policies, plans and programmes is necessary to achieve sustainable development. this is in view of the debate which took place earlier today. at the same time, member states were invited to extend the environmental impact assessment directive to include plans and programmes. in 1997, the commission presented a new, amended proposal, which no longer covered policy areas. that was a pity - for natural reasons, policy areas should also have been included. i tried to reinstate policy areas in the text, but unfortunately this amendment did not receive any support at second reading. i hope it will come up in the future. the purpose of the directive is to ensure that an environmental impact assessment is carried out for certain plans and programmes and that the results of those environmental impact assessments are taken into account during the preparation and approval of plans and programmes which may have an impact on the environment. the introduction of the environmental assessment early in the planning process, so that there is room for adjustment, modification or adoption of alternative plans, is of course an excellent tool for all decision-makers. the directive should of course also be seen as a complement to the environmental impact assessments of projects, but as i said, these come much later in the decision-making process. the settlement of the case started in october 2000 and was concluded in strasbourg on 14 march 2001. although the negotiations have been tough, i am satisfied with the final result, which can be summarised as follows. parliament has passed a requirement for monitoring environmental impact which was not included in the council's common position. this means ensuring that corrective action can be taken if monitoring reveals that the efforts have not been sufficient. it is also necessary to be able to identify harmful effects and, as i have said, to take remedial measures at an early stage if possible. a hard battle was also fought over whether the structural funds, the agricultural funds and the funds for the applicant countries should be included in the directive. in the end, however, we got through a political position that this should happen and that the exceptions that exist today only apply to the programming period ending in 2006/2007. i was not entirely satisfied with this solution. an information note, drawn up by commission officials, confirming that this will of course also apply to the eu's own plans and programmes, is therefore attached. another important point that was well formulated was that on crossborder consultation with third countries and public consultation. i would like to thank everyone involved in the work: the swedish presidency of the council for its tough negotiations, the commission for all its expertise and the colleagues who have taken part in the committee and delegation work, in addition to all the others who have taken part in the delegation. thank you all!
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. at this very late hour, i, as rapporteur, should say a few words about this report. first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the good cooperation in the committee. i would also like to thank the commission for a good proposal for a directive on safety belts and child restraints in vehicles. this is an important question. i would like to reiterate that there are a great many people who die in traffic in the member states of the european union. that's about 42,000 people a year. we would never accept such a high death toll in any other mode of transport. we must therefore take action. the commission is now proposing such a measure. we must also remember that children suffer very seriously on the roads. the most common cause of death among children and young people is road traffic deaths. the question then arises: should the eu legislate on seat belts and child safety in cars? my answer is yes. i think it's very important. firstly, there is a legal basis in the treaty. secondly, there is already legislation, a directive, which must now be tightened up because there is a need for it. we know that seat belts save lives. this is particularly evident in the case of children. accident research shows that the risk of serious injury is seven times greater for children who do not use restraints than for children who do. that is why there is a need for this. in addition, today's traffic in europe is very much crossborder. people move in private cars, but also in commercial traffic. both private and professional traffic is increasing across borders. we saw that in a report today. we also have a sharp increase in tourist flows, which means that there is a need for common rules on basic road safety measures. it is therefore important that we have a high level of safety in all eu countries, so that we know what the rules are, as private individuals and as professional drivers, but also for car manufacturers. it is important for them to have common safety requirements so that the rules are clear. at the same time, it is also important for consumers that safety devices become cheaper, which they will be if the rules are common. the commission proposal is a tightening up of an earlier directive which requires all passengers in vehicles equipped with seat belts to use them, all children to be restrained in approved car seats, except where they disappear, children under three years of age not to be allowed to ride in a car without an appropriate car seat, except in taxi cabs, and the use of rearward facing car seats to be prohibited unless the airbag has been deactivated. these are all good suggestions. the committee agrees that it should also be put forward as a parliamentary proposal. however, we have six amendments. in short, the first amendment means that the commission, together with the member states and road safety organisations, should promote an information campaign. in the second, we propose that the height of a child should be the determining factor in determining when a child can use adult seat belts. amendment no 4 would require manufacturers to indicate which car seats are suitable for which car models. we also propose that rural buses used in urban traffic - it is not very common but it does exist - should not be subject to the requirement of compulsory use. we also want the commission, in cooperation with the automotive industry, to develop safer and more user-friendly systems for airbags. it shall also be included in the report on the implementation of the directive to be submitted by 1 august 2004. the council will examine the commission's proposal at the transport ministers' meeting at the end of june. i am very much looking forward to the fact that we can now reach a common decision in the eu and that we can implement a very important road safety measure which is fundamental to road safety in the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too want to support all the praise for hautala, who has really worked hard on this. i can imagine that it has not been easy for me as rapporteur to reconcile all the views, even though a majority of the participants were women. i would point out that reality often precedes legislation. i would also like to remind you that legislation is not always enough, but must be supplemented once we have enacted a law. i would therefore like to highlight the need for gender equality plans and the responsibility of employers in a modern society. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. i think that the last bastion we will soon have left is the employers and their organisations. we've talked a lot about sexual harassment. it is a difficult concept to define, but we now have swedish lawyers trying to work out how to define undesirable, unwelcome behaviour in the workplace by one person towards another. it is exciting to define phenomena which, although old, have only recently been brought to light. we also discussed what we call paternity leave. i would like to point out that you don't choose to be a parent. parenting is something you become when you become a parent. employers question whether you will or plan to become a parent at the time of your employment. work is a part of life, not the whole of life. that applies to men and women, and it applies to children. i hope we can get a large majority behind hautala's proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to thank mr ribeiro e castro for his excellent report. i agree with most of what was said in the debate, not least by the previous speakers. i'd like to make two additions. first of all, i should like to say that i am pleased that the report makes it so clear that the mobility we want in europe must be based on the principle of voluntariness. i would like to emphasize this in the light of the fact that in my own country and in other countries, employment agencies have often been used as a kind of coercive instrument to force, by economic means, a transfer of population between different parts of the country. i hope that such a thing will never be possible at european level. i would also like to stress that i am surprised that no one in this debate has pointed out that we are now discussing technical and practical obstacles to mobility across borders, while large member states are erecting huge practical and political obstacles to mobility between the labour markets of the candidate countries and the current member states. this suggests that there is a political problem, and not merely a practical one, when we talk about mobility in europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to clarify point 11 on which we are going to vote. it is not a question of creating new processes, but of adding the ecological dimension to the lisbon process. i know that there have been some reflections and doubts on this point, but it is a question of adding the ecological dimension to a process which already exists.
we, the members of the various parties in the gue/ngl group, did not vote in favour of the report on the post-nice report. we are opposed to the development of the european union into a state with powers superior to those of the member states in all aspects of policy, as the report recommends in practice. instead of turning the eu into a state, we believe that the eu should be democratized. the democratization of the european union must be achieved by reducing the powers of the commission and introducing openness and transparency in the council's legislative practices. the future debate on european union must also concern the role of national parliaments in the future europe. today, the political debate in europe focuses on national parliamentary elections (with the exception of presidential elections in some states) and this can also be seen in the turnout in the various elections. the role of national parliaments in the decision-making process in europe must be strengthened. we also protest against the militarization of the eu. we insist that the eu should remain a civil organisation and that the special status of non-aligned countries should be respected. we believe that the future intergovernmental conference must reconsider the construction of emu and reassess the democratic deficit of monetary union and the right-wing policies it is pursuing. we demand that the stability pact be reconsidered and that article 56 be reformulated so as to bring the ecb under democratic control.
in writing. -sv) the main task of the nice intergovernmental conference was to make possible the enlargement of the eu. all our 15 national parliaments will ratify the treaty of nice in 2001, although a majority of members of the european parliament do not seem to be satisfied with the text. that is why the swedish christian democrats believe that paragraph 42 of the report presented today, which relates in particular to the european parliament's agreement to the accession treaties, could be formulated in a much more positive and welcoming manner towards the applicant countries. how will this point 42 be perceived by, for example, estonia, poland or cyprus? the party to which i belong cannot accept paragraph 25 of the same report, which opens the door to the introduction of european taxation, based moreover on qualified majority decision-making rules. all past experience shows that the creation of new levels of decision-making in tax matters leads to an increase in levies and therefore a decrease in what is left to the citizens we represent. in addition to tax law, another issue which is essential to the competence of all national parliaments and governments is defence policy. the swedish christian democrats cannot therefore support paragraph 31 of the present report, which calls for defence policy to be subject to 'enhanced cooperation' or 'flexible integration'. the christian democrats welcome two proposals in the report which introduce progress which is both historic and absolutely necessary. firstly, it is a question of improving the right of citizens and national parliaments to observe and monitor the work of the council, since council meetings are open to the public when the council is responsible for legislative action. this is a point which i have consistently advocated in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and which has received growing support there. it now has the approval of the whole of parliament. if we are to talk about democracy - and not just diplomacy - in the european union, this transparency must become a reality. in other words, we are in favour of adopting paragraph 11 and amendment no 68. the second is to apply and clarify the principle of subsidiarity. there is not one european people in the union, but many peoples. there is not one european language spoken, but a multiplicity of languages. there is no common european nation, but a multiplicity of nations. there is no common european culture, but a multiplicity of cultures. on the basis of this observation and on the basis of fundamental values such as human rights, democracy, transparency, clarity of political responsibilities and respect for cultural and linguistic equality within the union, the swedish christian democrats welcome amendment no 77, which provides for a clear delimitation of the areas of political competence of the eu. this is an idea that fits into the logic that our citizens do not want to see the distance between themselves and the decision-makers widened, nor do they want to see the centralization of european politics increased.
the committee on women's rights has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you. when the commission put forward its proposal it said that it had the ambition to go further than the palermo protocol did. i am very disappointed that the palermo protocol has been watered down instead. i think it is extremely important to distinguish between the definitions of refugee, which are not relevant to this particular case, and labour exploitation and sexual exploitation. we now know that about 90 percent of the people trafficked in these cases are women who are intended for sexual exploitation. i understand that the commission and the council, as well as we in this parliament, may find it difficult to cooperate on these issues, especially given the enormous differences in national legislation. in sweden, for the last year and a half, we have had active legislation which also addresses the purchase of sexual services, i.e. customers are criminalised. so we've focused on the man instead of stigmatizing those who prostitute themselves. this is to be seen in the light of the fact that some member states are now legalising brothel activities and thus also pimping. this preserves stereotyped images of women's and men's sexuality and sexual needs. as regards the karamanou report, i would like to say that if amendments nos 3, 5, 6 and 13 are adopted, my group will not be able to vote in favour of the report. the definitions of child pornography that we adopted in the women's committee are much better. in the karamanou report, the definitions are so broad that there is a risk that the maneken pis will have to be covered in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. 140 years ago, slavery was abolished in the united states and russia. now it has been introduced in europe. according to the un agency iom, half a million women are tricked or forced into europe each year to live as sex slaves. the vastly increased trade is more profitable than drug smuggling and is increasingly controlled by an organized mafia. at the same time, over a million children are forced into child prostitution and the growing child pornography industry each year. these children are increasingly exploited by tourists and businessmen, many of whom are strikingly european. despite this grim reality, the penalties for the sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and trafficking in women are negligible compared with those for drug trafficking. it may be two years in prison, compared with 10 to 15 years for serious drug offences. few perpetrators are brought to justice, and even fewer are convicted. we are debating today an attempt to turn rhetoric and fine words, which we have actually been doing for many years, into concrete action. our four rapporteurs have done an excellent job and in a number of respects they are going further than the commission, to which i would also like to pay tribute. it is absolutely necessary to harmonize legislation and to increase penalties. as regards the sexual exploitation of children, our main demand is that legislation should cover all children under the age of 16, which is fully in line with the customary definition of a child in international conventions. the limitation to 10 years may even worsen the situation of children who have just turned 10 years old, since the demand for these children will then increase dramatically. the lack of legislation is not only about taking action against the criminal but also about the absence of laws protecting the victims. we are already many who support the demand to stop the sexual exploitation of women and children, but more are needed. this calls for more men and more governments, and above all for more concrete action.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the statements made by both the council and the commission. i welcome all statements on this matter of animal welfare and animal welfare. i would like to thank the swedish presidency for having succeeded for the first time in bringing about a public debate in the council of ministers on animal ethics. it is a success. animal ethics is about much more than just rules. it is about attitudes and knowledge about animals and how to make them feel good. however, compliance with eu and, in particular, national laws and regulations is very important. on 8 march the greens held a conference on animal welfare here in parliament, and i was pleased to see that margareta winberg was also present. at this conference it was revealed that there is no overall control of the eu's animal transport directives at all, nor any control of their compliance. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, animals are being transported across europe in horrendous conditions with no intervention. the rules on the transport of live animals are well known, for example as regards the limitation of travel time and the requirement of health certificates. however, there is no functioning control apparatus. we have now received the commission's reply to a question i asked. the council has also declared that the transport of live animals must cease... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'd like to report that i was present here yesterday. i arrived at the parliament yesterday at 6 p.m., but unfortunately i did not sign the attendance list because i was busy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr whitehead, who has done an extremely good job. i would also like to stress the unanimity of the committee on the environment. we know that food crises in the eu have caused people to feel anxious about eating. at the same time, this has led to a focus on food and agricultural policy. now we must get this new system up and running quickly. it is of enormous importance. if we have open borders, which we shall have within the union, and a free flow of goods, it is of course important that food can also flow freely. however, this must not mean that diseases and illnesses also flow freely. of course, a common system cannot mean that regional food is not allowed. if we look at the whole chain of measures, it will require, among other things, scientific advice, risk assessment, risk management, control, including control of controllers in the member states. perhaps sanctions will also be necessary in the future. this new authority will not be able to do all this, but it will provide a new, increased strength at the beginning of the chain in terms of scientific advice and risk assessment. we already have a food and veterinary office in dublin which plays an important role in risk management and control. it is now urgent to establish cooperation between these two authorities. in the end, i do not think the european union will get away with it, but we must have a sanctions system at eu level. however, only the commission can deal with this. it is important that we continue to work to be even more efficient. this is a very important step that we must take quickly to ensure that food is safer. but then we must not forget the issue, we must go further and make the system even better in the future.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission's proposal on animal by-products involves a strict separation into three categories. i would remind you that category 1 covers risk material and is covered mainly by the tse regulation which parliament has just adopted for the third time. some amendments go against the tse regulation which we have just adopted. category 1 is for hazardous materials. category 2 includes, inter alia, animals that have died by suicide. the third category includes those classified as by-products of slaughter approved for consumption as a whole. the committee on the environment, like myself, has chosen to support the commission's approach and has tried to improve and, above all, to tighten up the practical regulatory framework. the principles of this report are simple, but the practice is much more difficult. in particular, implementation will be difficult. we therefore call for a strict separation of the material from the three categories. it also requires strict separation of facilities, transport lines, etc. i would add that in future legislation we will probably have to require the same separation of feed mills or lines for different types of feed. it is important to mention that all category 1 and 2 materials must be indelibly marked with colour and odour substances, so that they cannot be re-introduced into, for example, feed production by malice or accident. of course, the same rules as those applicable to domestic production should also apply to exports, re-exports and imports. i am very pleased, together with the committee, that this is the end of 'cannibalism'. this means that pigs can no longer be challenged with their own kind, but i would ask you to bear in mind that the total ban on challenging ruminants with any form of animal protein remains in place and is regulated by the tse regulation, not here. i am personally very pleased that from now on category 2 fat will only be used as fertiliser or, preferably, as fuel oil. i think it is extremely important that we stop at some point the enrichment of heavy metals, pcbs and dioxins. i now hope that parliament will adopt these principles by a large majority. i must therefore turn to amendment no 100 by the ppe-de group. the proposal, which was tabled in committee and voted down, aims to ban all meat and bone meal, with the exception of fishmeal, from all animal feedingstuffs. i'm asking you to think this through. we all know the disaster we caused when we made the idler all-you-can-eat. we can already see the problem with trying to make the omnivore a vegetarian. i plead humility against the very order of nature! we can't manipulate him again! a better way is to vote for the green proposal, now amendment no 64, which requires member states to report by 1 february 2003 on whether they have been able to implement this new regulation accurately and thoroughly. then we'll discuss lifting the temporary ban on meat and bone meal that currently exists. i would also like you to vote against amendments nos 22 and 33. they were actually gonna sabotage part of the cataloging and make it complicated. we do not need to test whether a chicken that has died by suicide should be classified as category 2 instead of category 1. as far as new technology is concerned, i am a firm believer that we should try new technology, never impede its development. i have therefore myself tabled a proposal which was adopted in committee, allowing the use of new methods approved by the scientific committees. this amendment 43 opens up all possibilities for different types of new technology when we get them and when they are approved. i therefore want us to vote against amendments nos 20, 25, 26, 35 and 43 in the parts where they highlight a certain new technology, namely alkaline hydrolysis. it may be an excellent technique, but i do not think it should be written five times in a regulation. it's legal overdoing, to say the least. i would also urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against amendment no 36, which is too restrictive compared with the commission's original proposal. as the text is now worded, serious zoonoses, i.e. diseases affecting both animals and humans, would be exempt from this law. so it would only touch animal diseases. this means that serious infectious diseases such as salmonella, listeria and even tuberculosis would be excluded from this regulation. that would be devastating to public health. amendment no 23 excludes, for example, sheep and goats which have been killed by themselves from the specification as risk material. this is clearly contrary to the tse regulation and is probably impossible in practice. i have chosen to support the amendments on the control of household waste as regards the risks of foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever tabled by the green group, namely amendments nos 102 and 103. it is good if we have clear rules, but perhaps the big question in this context is still not really resolved by these amendments. it is the crash in cannibalism and household waste. i would like to conclude in time by thanking the commission and the council working party for a very constructive, creative and fruitful dialogue and my shadow rapporteurs for their assistance and assistance.
in writing. - (sv) we voted in favour of a report which improves the commission's proposal in many respects and tighten up the legislation. we would have preferred a more restrictive approach to meat and bone meal in animal feed. we therefore voted for amendment no 100, which was unfortunately rejected. the amendment requires member states to ensure that meat and bone meal, with the exception of fish meal, does not end up on the animal feed market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the gue/ngl group could not support the karamanou report on child pornography. we strongly condemn child pornography. we consider this a very serious and very serious crime. that is why we believe that the commission's proposal is better than the report of the committee on legal affairs. it is important that the definitions of child pornography be as distinct as possible in legislation. they must not be allowed to become so large as to impede the work of the police and other authorities. if guardians admit to gross violations of children, their own or others, they should be treated as criminals and not be treated in any way differently. if there is no obligation to report knowledge of actual offences in this area in the member states, we hope that the commission will call for such legislation to be introduced. however, we do not want to encourage so-called moral panic by encouraging citizens to report someone without having relevant suspicions. finally, we are opposed to the proposals put forward by the commission and the committee on age limits. according to the un convention on the rights of the child, a person is considered a child until he or she reaches the age of 18. regardless of age, the degree of vulnerability, the degree of violation and the nature of the abuse must be the guiding principles for the assessment of penalties - this is true regardless of age.
in writing. (sv) the moderators' delegation to the epp-ed considers that the articles on criminalisation in the report on measures to combat the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are partly unclear, which makes it difficult to define the offence. we voted against the report because we do not think that any change in legislation is necessary at this stage.
in writing. (sv) mr president, the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left was unable to support the karamanou report on child pornography. we strongly condemn child pornography. we consider it a very important and serious crime. the commission's proposal is therefore better than the report submitted by the committee on legal affairs. it is important to have as clear a definition of child pornography as possible in a legislative text. these definitions should not be so broad as to be detrimental to police cooperation and other activities of the public authorities. if guardians confess to abusing children, their own or others, they should be treated as criminals and not given any form of special treatment. if the member states do not have the responsibility to report knowledge of the commission of such crimes, we hope that the commission will put forward a proposal to create such legislation. we would not, however, like to create a moral panic by inviting citizens to lodge complaints without having any substantiated evidence. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. according to the un convention on the rights of the child, a child is anyone under the age of 18. the basis for calculating penalties should be the harm caused, the degree and form of abuse, not age.
i just wanted to ask if the written explanations of vote could be taken first. i understand that you must remain in the chamber even when a written explanation of vote is required. or have those rules changed again? my delegation will now remain because we want to make a written explanation of vote. we want to get it registered and then we can get out of here. it would therefore be easier if we took the written explanations of vote first. i want a clarification. does one have to remain in the chamber to give a written explanation of vote for it to be approved or rejected?
thank you for your answer. i was of the opinion that one had to stay even if it was a written explanation of vote. great, then i know and can save time in the future. * *
in writing. -{sv) we swedish christian democrats welcome the initiative to combat human trafficking. we believe that there is a real difference between the concepts of 'trafficking in human beings' and 'trafficking in human beings'. it is therefore preferable to deal with these situations in separate legal instruments, a view which is reflected in our vote. as the framework decision concerns the fight against trafficking in human beings and the sanctions against those who commit trafficking in human beings, we also believe that issues such as the treatment of victims should not be dealt with under this instrument. we have therefore decided to abstain on these points.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the report by mr davies, as i see it, is basically about the credibility of the eu's environmental policy and whether we should really try to achieve the objectives that the union has created. ground-level ozone is a serious air pollutant that poses significant problems for public health and the environment. the targets we set for reducing pollution must be binding, otherwise we risk making decisions a blow in the wind. it is therefore not good to have legislation which only speaks of the objectives to be achieved as far as possible, as the council of ministers expresses it. in this respect, we naturally support the committee's proposal for a clearer wording. our group also supports amendments nos 5 and 23, which state that the targets must be fully met by 2020 and that they must not be exceeded by more than 20 days per year until 2010. without these changes, the legislation will be toothless. another important aspect of the davies report is the stricter requirements for information to the public. this type of air pollution has significant effects on public health. it is therefore important that all available information is made publicly available to the public and voluntary organisations. there must be coherence between eu environmental policies in different areas. we have common air quality objectives and are currently negotiating with the council in a compromise on rules for national emission ceilings and large combustion plants. if this policy is to be coherent, binding rules on ozone emissions are also needed. with these words i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good piece of work, which we will vote for in all its parts.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this report has a somewhat turbulent background. at the beginning, it was a report which i described in committee as a diplomatic declaration of war against the people's republic of china, which was obviously not the intention. thanks to the joint efforts of the committee, the report has been radically changed and now deals more with what it was supposed to be about under the heading. it is generally acceptable to us in the green group, but there are still some problems. one is paragraph 21, which attacks china's population policy, which of course has many different aspects. in fact, however, it is changing quite radically. as recently as just a few months ago, there was even a big report in the new york times - of all the newspapers - that described in very positive terms how this one-child policy is being changed in a rather sweeping and radical way. in that context, i think it is quite unnecessary for us in the european parliament to attack chinese population policy in such a one-sided way as is done in paragraph 21. the second problem is the issue of visas for the supreme leader of taiwan. i have to admit, i find it rather difficult. i have criticised in the swedish debate the fact that these high-ranking taiwanese leaders are not granted visas. on the other hand, i understand that the prc sees this as a change in practice and a more or less indirect recognition of the state of taiwan, which no one has considered. it's clearly problematic. i shall abstain on this point.
i have a follow-up question for the honourable member of the council. you refer to the treaty of nice, but does it not state that, in order to be adopted, all countries must accept it in accordance with their constitutions? ireland has rejected the treaty of nice. if the eu follows its own rules, should it not stop relying on the treaty of nice and realise that it has failed?
you might call that a short answer. i thought, on the other hand, that the eu summits were a matter for the presidency. i am therefore surprised that the presidency is almost unable to answer my question. if it goes as well as we and the swedish police in gothenburg who seem to have prepared for a peaceful summit hope, the matter may not be of any relevance. if, on the other hand, things go wrong, it is strange that the president of the council, who also happens to be a member of the swedish government, has no interest in or responsibility for this. that is remarkable. i wonder who's really in charge.
i thank the honourable member for his unusually clear answer. i am glad of this answer, because i think it is important. i would still like to ask - perhaps with the swedish hat on - why swedish security police systematically videotape peaceful anti-eu demonstrators in demonstrations where there is not a single incident. is it compatible with the normal freedom of speech and demonstration?
since it turned out to be possible to change hats, i also have to ask a question. there have been quite extensive reports in the press, including in the göteborg post, that the us intelligence service has been very actively involved in the preparations for the summit. it is said to have been in place in sweden for several weeks. i don't know if the information is wrong, but it is attributed to named gothenburg police officers, and i have not seen any denial from them either. it would therefore be interesting to know whether the events in malmö were also part of the preparations made together with the american security services. can we get some information on this? if not, the field is left open to speculation, which is hardly in the interest of the swedish government.
i want to thank you for your answer, which was strictly legal and politically correct. nevertheless, i think we must recognize that, despite the fact that parliament is sparsely populated, there is a large and wide public in europe that is asking these questions after the election results in italy. the eu is a union of common values under the treaty of amsterdam, as articles 6 and 7 of the treaty state. if the swedish presidency does not bring up the question of the new government formation in italy and the conclusions that could be drawn from previous actions towards austria, i believe that in the long term there will be a popular request in various ways that we must study what has happened in italy and what parties and values are there. but let me say this: may it not be that what happened in italy is because it is a big country and in austria because it was a small country!
i would like to ask a follow-up question on what the president-in-office of the council said about judicial cooperation. belgium takes over the presidency from sweden. belgium is about to introduce drug legislation similar to that of the netherlands. so my question is: what are the real conditions for cooperation against drugs and the fight against drug use and trafficking, given that the netherlands has a very lax and frivolous liberal view of drug use, which attracts people from all over europe to the netherlands? this is a policy which belgium is now about to adopt. is there any real prospect of achieving results when two countries are so different?
mr. speaker, the foreign minister! i am concerned about the outcome in ireland. it's a victory for those who want to stop and say no. referendums encourage short-term selfish attitudes instead of long-term accountability. as europe now stands on the threshold of a very successful era, citizens are perplexed. we can increase freedom, security and opportunity through reunification, and we can show solidarity with people who have suffered under communist oppression and the destruction of the planned economy. however, the reunion is as important for our own good. enlargement is not only a historic responsibility but also a necessary injection and a win-win situation. the eu's heads of state or government must therefore now in gothenburg ensure target dates for enlargement and ensure that its roadmap is politically confirmed. that is the clear message i think is needed. but we should also examine ourselves. citizens, not just in ireland, are questioning what the eu is doing. we are bad at explaining the essence and successes of european cooperation. many want to put on the eu the tasks they can do better at home. this undermines the eu's autonomy and neglects its fundamental task of promoting freedom, ensuring peace, opening up markets and removing barriers to trade. the enlargement and deepening of the union now requires focus, consistency and commitment from all of us who want to make europe a success. there's another summit. the summit with the united states is a significant event for sweden, and it is important for the eu. leadership must then focus on what unites. understanding american interests can ensure the united states' commitment to european reunification and its ability to deal with crises. cooperation with the united states to secure peace and increase free trade must be the overarching task. george w. bush is good for america and good for europe, and he is warmly welcomed to europe. i hope that both summits will produce tangible results and i wish them all the best. i would like to add a word of congratulation to the foreign minister for the fact that the presidency which started in a "grayish" colour now seems to be able to end in a slightly more light blue.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the gothenburg summit marks the end of the swedish presidency, which, as has been said before, had an ambitious programme. i would like to commend the swedish government for its implementation. i would like to speak about something which is not really on the agenda for gothenburg, namely one of the so-called e-na - employment - jobs, which was discussed at the stockholm meeting in march, but this week has been supplemented in the social field with a hat trick in the final minutes. i would say that it was perhaps one of the most successful council meetings on social issues because it managed to resolve three issues: the issue of noise, the issue of equal treatment and, not least, the issue of information and consultation of employees. a very good job was done, which is important for the eu's continued efforts in the social field. i would also like to mention sustainable development and link it to social issues - much of the debate has been on sustainable development and ecological issues. this is true, but there is also a social dimension. we have the question of social cohesion between people, the question of creating a policy that reduces the gaps in europe, that reduces the gaps between generations. we also have the question of pension systems and how they should be designed in the future, and the question of reducing the gap between regions. all of this is necessary for sustainable development. we need to pursue an economic policy that is not only geared to short-term growth, but also to long-term growth. the ecological aspects must therefore permeate all areas. they must have implications for transport policy, they must have implications for energy policy, and they must have implications for agricultural policy as we design the long-term sustainable society. the ecological aspects must also affect us globally. internally, we must do this by the methods we have used so far, but also by complementing the lisbon process, by making the ecological aspects part of the process we are already pursuing in the social and economic fields. but we must also act globally. the european union must be firm on the kyoto protocol. of course, we would like to have the united states on board, but here the eu must show leadership. even if the us does not want to, the eu must take global leadership on this issue. we must also raise the issue of trade agreements within the wto by incorporating ecological and social aspects into the design of global trade. finally, i would like to say something about the most important of the three e's, which is undoubtedly enlargement. this is a historic moment that must not be allowed to slip through our fingers. i therefore share the view expressed by many others that, after what has happened in ireland, we must be even clearer to the applicant countries. the enlargement process must continue, we must set target dates where our aim is to have them participate in the 2004 european elections. this must be clarified so that the first countries can take part. each country will be able to participate on its own merits, with as few exceptions and transitional periods as possible in as few areas as possible. sweden has done well during its presidency. now it's time to move on and manage this legacy. finally, i would also like to say something about foreign and security policy, where the presidency has done a good job and sweden has received a great deal of recognition. the commission has also been able to put sweden in the lead in this process by introducing preventive measures. the fact that we now have a leading role in world politics, in the middle east and korea, etc., is largely due to anna lindh, and i would like to thank her for that. i also think it was good that they were so clear about a convention. sweden, which stands for openness, should also stand for a convention, not as the only method, but as a method of preparing the next round of government negotiations.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! i would like to begin by being very personal and thank the president-in-office for the work she has done in macedonia with javier solana and commissioner patten. as a child of war, i am well aware that "peace has no parades" and that peace, the arduous daily work, does not make headlines. war is better in a media society. i would like to thank you for your efforts so far. the main theme of gothenburg will be sustainable development, and the kyoto protocol will be discussed in this context. president bush is coming to gothenburg. shouldn't we in power in the eu, myself included, "sweep in front of our own door" first? within the european union, we subsidise the very most carbon-intensive energy systems. should we not first, perhaps simultaneously, do something about this? it's easier to negotiate when you've slept in front of your own door. the second major environmental problem in europe is transport. it is also an eu project to create a very good and environmentally friendly infrastructure in europe. the third and perhaps one of our greatest environmental problems is the common agricultural policy. we are spending a little over 40 billion euros on this. some 5 billion of this amount goes to conserving cultural heritage and biodiversity, the rest is very counterproductive from an environmental point of view, so let us "sweep our own doorstep" as we go along.
mr president, mr president of the council and mr president of the commission! many important issues are pressing the agenda for the summit: the enlargement, the middle east, a possible new round of wto negotiations, etc. remember, this summit has been launched as the first "green" summit. thirty years after the stockholm un environment summit and ten years after the rio summit, the heads of state or government have a historic opportunity, a commitment and an obligation to adopt a credible strategy for sustainable development for the eu. but the strategy must also be the basis for wider global environmental responsibility and commitments ahead of rio+10 in south africa. the commission's proposal is an important first step, a minimum step, i would say. to achieve a real breakthrough towards sustainable development, much, much more is needed. major changes are needed in economic policy, transport and energy policy, chemicals policy, agriculture and fisheries policy. when confidence in the eu is waning, as is clearly shown by ireland's rejection of the treaty of nice, a thorough debate on the future of the eu is needed, a debate without preconditions in which european civil society is involved. the summit must set out such a path. it would be another setback if the summit did not lead to a credible outcome for sustainable development. it's got to be a good result! it's not just about us, it's about future generations. i wish you luck and a successful green summit!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating the irish people on the result of the referendum on the treaty of nice. only one people in the eu voted against the treaty of nice and it said no. if more people had been allowed to vote, it is likely that more countries, not least sweden, would have voted no. the summit in gothenburg must make it clear that the irish 'no' must be respected. this means that the treaty of nice has failed. it is about the eu having to play by its own rules. the right of member states to reject treaty amendments is central to the eu's architecture. without it, the national democracies lose control of the union. that is why it is so incredible that the swedish government can say that the treaty of nice is firm. in doing so, they ignore the democratic rules of the game. if the swedish parliament had voted against a treaty amendment, would we not want the other eu countries to respect it? i think that the swedish foreign minister should answer that question. the irish voted against the treaty of nice. it is a no to more supranationality, more power for the big eu countries. a no to new steps towards the eu state and the militarisation of the eu. it was thus also a voice for a better and more democratic europe. however, ireland's 'no' was not a 'no' to eu enlargement. it is perfectly possible to enlarge the eu on the basis of the treaty of amsterdam. the influence of the new member states in the institutions can be regulated in the accession treaties as was done in the last enlargement. such a model could correct the discrimination to which some candidate countries were subjected in nice. if the 'no' vote is not respected, it sends a clear message that the will of small countries does not matter and that referendums are only respected if the outcome suits the ruling elite. it would be serious if that happened. i would also like to say a few words about the sustainable development strategy to be discussed in gothenburg. the commission's proposals were surprisingly concrete and good, not least in view of their weak proposals for environmental action programmes earlier this year. the proposal has many clear objectives, such as continued reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, measures to conserve biodiversity, demands to stop traffic growth and to eliminate harmful subsidies such as tobacco cultivation. the risk is now obvious that the concrete elements of the strategy will disappear during the negotiations, while the uncommitted rhetoric will remain. there is already a compromise proposal for conclusions circulating, a non-paper from the swedish government that looks exactly like that. i hope that the swedish government will fight for, and succeed in, maintaining the concrete content of the strategy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have notified a change in paragraph 41 where macedonia is replaced by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i hope that is noted before we take the final vote.
in writing. - sv) i voted against paragraphs 30 and 31 of the pre-gothenburg resolution. as i have said many times, i am opposed to a common european defence and to increased military spending. however, point 32 is in line with my view.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the european parliament has once again failed to distinguish between the tasks of the eu and the competence of the member states. the eu must focus on what is at the heart of its raison d'être and on its essential tasks. the need for such an attitude should be more evident than ever, following the rejection of the treaty of nice by the irish people in a referendum on 7 june. this report deals with silicone implants, with proposals for rules and regulations on this subject, a minimum age of 18 for breast implants and the establishment of a european register of patients. it should be clear that this is not a matter for the european institutions to decide, and that this subject has nothing to do with the main task assigned to the european cooperation project, namely the promotion of peace in our part of the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my group shares the view of most other groups, namely that this is a good report and that it is time we had a working time regulation that also applies to road traffic. it's been a while. the last time we discussed supplementary groups - that time it was doctors and some other groups - a similar discussion was held, but the riders were not yet included. it's very good that that category is now covered. our group also believes that it is self-evident to equate employees with riders. we are quite certain that if you do not do this, there will be less careful transport companies who organise themselves in such a way that they can take advantage of formally independent drivers who are in fact a form of employees. we don't want that kind of a scam in our business. our group has tabled two amendments. we will support all of hughes' proposals, but on one point we want to move a little faster. we think that the three-year transitional period is unnecessary. first, the industry has known for a long time that changes were coming, so there has been time to adapt. secondly, there is a point of view which has been under-emphasized, namely consideration for fellow road users. it can be argued that the transitional period requirement is a way of taking account of the industry, but it certainly does not take account of the road users. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. we therefore think it is equally advisable to take the step fully and implement the provisions without a transitional period. this is particularly important in the case of working time regulations relating to night work and other activities which may endanger road safety. we support the report as it is drafted in amendments nos 25 and 26, which are the last amendments and which deal with the removal of the transitional period from the proposal.
thank you, commissioner nielson, for a very detailed and in many respects interesting reply. i think we can all agree that this is one of the most serious epidemics and not only one of the most serious humanitarian disasters, but also one of the most serious economic disasters that has ever hit the world. even a decade ago, experts, based on the transmission routes, sexual habits, and widespread poverty in many african countries, were able to make predictions that showed a spread similar to the one we have today, with tragic consequences. unfortunately, today we can make the same predictions for other parts of the world where the infection reached later, and we get a similar panorama. the only way to go is, of course, prevention, with a mixture of support for those already affected and prevention, in the form of information and education and in the form of efforts to develop a vaccine. i agree with the commissioner, of course, that simply setting up a fund will not solve any problems. i can also agree with many of the requirements for such a mechanism as nielson sets out. at the same time, it is my experience from the building of unaids, on whose board i was, that there was always too little money and too few ambitious steps. during the recovery years, there was virtually no money to support national efforts in the hard-hit countries. at the same time, as mr nielson also pointed out, the normal budgets of the un agencies have been reduced, which means that we are suffering from a serious shortage of money. i am fully convinced that money is needed to achieve success in research and active action at national level. i therefore think that kofi annan's initiative is a good one, provided that this mechanism can be set up in a good and unbureaucratic way. i understand that the commission cannot magically come up with money on its own. however, there was a large surplus in the eu budget last year which has recently been sent back to the member states. it must be possible, in such an extraordinary situation, to get support in the council for a proper contribution. otherwise it would look very strange in the light of the very strong commitment of the commission over the last year and the initiative that mr nielson, among others, took in september-october 2000. so i'd like to get a little more of nielson's pulse. given that the probes for the new york meeting in just under a month are decent and given that this mechanism can be set up in a good way, what are the plans for us from the european union, both the member states and the eu itself, to contribute a decent amount to ensure that more power is put into the prevention work?
in writing. - (sv) as a representative of the swedish christian democrats, i choose to support the second reading on the working time arrangements for persons performing mobile road transport activities on a professional basis because this proposal is important, especially from the point of view of road safety. i have, however, voted against the following points in the report: the proposal to give the employee at least 24 hours' notice, the proposal to count time spent beside the driver as working time and the proposal to limit working time to a maximum of 8 hours in any 24-hour period in the case of night driving. my vote is on the principle that a good compromise must be found between road safety and reasonable conditions for the contractors.
in writing. -{j) as at first reading, we did not take a position on the skinner report on the minimum safety and health requirements for the use of work equipment by workers at work. this is an area in which the union should not have such a great influence. our basic attitude towards the european union is positive. european integration provides an opportunity to address crossborder issues such as the environment, trade, crossborder mobility, human rights and conflict management. we also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to the people concerned. that is why we are actively studying the question of a constitution for the european union, which would clearly indicate to everyone the distribution of responsibilities. the citizens must be clear that the union should deal only with the issues it knows best - crossborder issues. we are convinced that the european union is not the most appropriate level to adopt legislation indicating, for example, how ladders should be used to carry out work at height. national conditions must be able to be decisive as to how scaffolding is erected and how work is carried out. we believe it is important that the union should concentrate on a few areas where it can really be useful. this field cannot be part of these topics.
in writing. -sv) regulating in detail is not the right solution. it cannot therefore be the responsibility of the union or the european parliament to adopt rules on the inclination of ladders, on how to place them in relation to buildings or on the fact that they cannot rest on a slippery surface. however fair and honourable such legislation may be, it cannot be a matter for european political competence. the european parliament can set the limit by exercising restraint in the cases it is examining and for which it is seeking key competences. a reasonable solution would have been a directive giving member states the responsibility to take appropriate and sufficient measures to ensure a certain level of safety at work. a common market must have certain minimum rules and common objectives to improve health and safety at work. it is, however, reprehensible that the details of how these objectives are to be achieved should be regulated at european level. we, the swedish christian democrats, consider that working towards a clearer division of powers between the european union and the member states is a priority task. european legislation must be free of rigid rules and new legislation must take account of the principle of subsidiarity. european directives should be aimed primarily at setting objectives and showing the way, not at legislating in detail. let the member states decide for themselves how to draw up the rules and regulations concerning the health and safety of workers in order to achieve the requirements laid down in the best possible way. meps, like national parliamentarians, are certainly expected to be proficient in a number of areas and to deal with a wide range of policy issues, but the rules on the setting of scales and support systems can hardly be part of that.
written. - (sv) we swedish christian democrats would like to stress the importance of the possible creation of the european school of diplomacy referred to in article 9 not leading to its replacing the diplomatic training of each of the member states. it is important that the external services of each country have their own basic training so that they can serve their fellow citizens fully, and above all in their own national language.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the swedish presidency for its great respect for and willingness to engage in dialogue with the european parliament. both in this house and in the committees, the presidency has been very much present and very much appreciated. dialogue, openness and participation are the prerequisites for the functioning of democracy. in gothenburg, there was an attempt at dialogue between politicians, various organisations and demonstrators. unfortunately, it was just a friendly attempt. in reality, the heads of state and government were behind the closures, and there was no opportunity for civil society and citizens to follow the negotiations on our common future. the closed rooms of this summit culture are giving rise to frustration and disempowerment, as expressed by peaceful demonstrators who tried to get their message across to the heads of state and government. unfortunately, even a small clique of provocateurs brought destruction and violence. the stones thrown by these provocateurs were not only aimed at the police, but at the whole of democratic society, and at all of us who were really trying to get a message across. that can be very sad indeed. it is also unacceptable that the police fired sharply at the provocateurs. now an investigation has been added to investigate how this could be possible in sweden today. i am also disappointed at the way eu leaders seem to be reacting to the frustration with developments in the eu. i also think that the result of the referendum in ireland has not been taken into account at all. instead, they are trying to make this an irish problem, when in fact it is, of course, a problem for the whole of the eu. the majority of the european parliament today also seems to be making the same mistake, having rejected the council's proposal to set up an open forum and only intending to propose that the next intergovernmental conference be a convention. i do not understand this reluctance to open up the eu, to engage in dialogue with civil society and with citizens. what does the swedish presidency intend to do in the future to bring our colleagues together and make them understand that this is absolutely necessary? of the three e's, it was certainly enlargement that was fought for and achieved. i am very, very pleased that there is now a fixed timetable for the accession procedure. however, i do not know how much gunpowder was poured on sustainable development. at any rate, the results were poor compared with what might have been expected. that was a good proposal put forward by the commission. i do not know whether this is due to the enormous reluctance of the eu's heads of state or government to understand what sustainable development really means. how can we now anchor a plan and a political process for the rio+10 conference in south africa, when we have not presented the concrete commitments on what will happen to the climate objectives after 2010, how to stop overfishing, how to change the devastating agricultural policy we have today? eu leaders must also take on a global responsibility. i believe that is what the rest of the world and the citizens of the european union are demanding. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. sweden is sometimes described as a well-organized but not very exciting country. it is a picture that fits quite well with the swedish presidency of the european union. the presidency has worked well in terms of organisation. swedish diplomats have worked hard to forge various compromises. politically, it's been a low profile. everything has been done to show that sweden is a loyal eu member, both towards the eu system and towards the big countries that dominate the union. this was most clearly seen when the irish voted against the treaty of nice. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the treaty of nice would stand. it is in fact an attack on the right of any small country to stop changes to the treaty if it wishes to do so. sometimes compromises have been made at any cost. the new rules on access to documents became so weak that organisations of journalists in europe felt that the current rules were better. the swedish presidency gave priority to enlargement, employment and the environment. the presidency has worked hard on enlargement. the pace of negotiations on how to bring the candidate countries into line with eu rules has been maintained. this has been essential in order to avoid delays in enlargement. the eu's employment policy is often presented as a 'left-wing project' to counter the right-wing policies of monetary union. the stockholm summit addressed the issue, but the only concrete decision that is remembered from it was a decision on the liberalisation of financial markets. it's not much left-wing politics. the presidency has had some bad luck in the environment. the work on the most important environmental problem, the climate issue, has been effectively sabotaged by the new president of the united states. the gothenburg summit was able to adopt a good strategy for sustainable development, but when it came to the point, most of the radical environmental requirements had been removed from the text. in some areas the presidency has been successful. in addition to the enlargement negotiations, the decision to remove customs duties for the poorest countries is a clear step forward. the work of the presidency against trafficking in women and for peace in the balkans is also commendable. as usual, however, many of the important decisions are made more quietly. sweden has continued to work loyally towards the militarisation of the eu and thus in practice towards the abolition of sweden's neutrality policy. during this period, sweden and the other nordic countries have joined the schengen agreement, which is the eu's main tool for building new, hard borders against those living outside the union. in this area there is a real stain on the swedish presidency. sweden voted in favour of the proposal on fines for transport liability, a proposal which would involve a kind of privatisation of asylum policy, which in turn would mean that airlines and other carriers would be penalised if they do not sort out refugees who do not have their papers in order when they apply for entry into the eu. when the presidency was inaugurated, göran persson stood here and spoke of a policy of solidarity with refugees. we can only regret that the government has since then in practice acted in the opposite way. finally, a few words about gothenburg: in gothenburg, small groups of militants took the opportunity to attack the police and cause extensive damage. whatever these groups claim to stand for, it is an action that can never be defended. throwing stones and causing harm is not politics. it's crime. it should not be hidden, however, that in gothenburg there were also tens of thousands of people who demonstrated peacefully and with dignity for a better europe than today's with emu and schengen. in fact, what 50,000 people do is more important than what 300 violent people do!
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is regrettable that today's debate on the swedish presidency - for our country it was the first time, with all that it entails - must begin with the observation that it risks being remembered for the anarchists who tried to stop the meeting by throwing stones and who mercilessly smashed the pleasant main street of gothenburg and several good intentions. the benefits of cooperation and the gains for citizens were overlooked, while violence and hooligans came to dominate the reporting of the meeting. i know that almost everyone in this house shares my grief, but it would be safer for the future of democracy if we could be completely united. the swedish presidency should instead be remembered for the efforts made in the field of enlargement. the safeguarding and extension of european freedom and democracy to the formerly communist occupied countries of eastern and central europe is the most important task of european cooperation. this is accompanied by a burgeoning debate which raises the big questions about the future of european cooperation. sometimes there is more talk about how the decision-making processes should be organised than about what we should cooperate on and what the eu should not intervene in. i think that all too often we talk above the heads of the citizens and far beyond their everyday lives. the rejection of the nice treaty by ireland is a lesson for us all and a concern not just for the irish government. the debate on the future of the eu must be conducted in more principled and fundamental terms. that is why it is not so important what we say and do here, but that we discuss it more in our constituencies. in my own country, if i may use an example, it is important to take advantage of the interest that the presidency has generated. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. this means that sweden must now also tackle the question of the euro. the single currency is so central to eu cooperation that the social democratic party and the swedish government must take responsibility for sweden's membership of emu. in other countries, other issues must be the focus. i think it is important that europeans should stand up for free markets and for a europe that is more open to the outside world. in some member states, europe-lovers should take greater responsibility for making enlargement a reality. since the swedish presidency was striving to be a presidency for the whole of the union, the most important thing was that we achieved a breakthrough in the enlargement negotiations. the fact that it was not done with greater enthusiasm and courage is not primarily the fault of the swedish presidency. it was someone else who was braking. i therefore hope that the negotiating results achieved have strengthened a successful enlargement and that the remaining major issues, agricultural and regional policy, will not interfere with and undermine the decisions taken in gothenburg. let us make sure that this concrete thing overshadows the stone-throwing and hooliganism of the left-wing extremists! let us all work together to ensure that the street parliament does not win!
madam president, i would like to thank you. when i was flying home last week, i got hold of a swedish business newspaper, dagens industri, which does not often praise the swedish government. they gave the presidency a grade, and it was headlined "commendably accepted". i wish i could say the same. the swedish presidency had three important, big ambitions. there has been a lot of talk about enlargement. there is no doubt that this matter was handled very well. the important thing now for the future of us in this parliament, for sweden and other countries in the council, is to keep up the pace so that we can live up to the objectives we have set ourselves. as for the jobs, the results may not have been so great. the deregulation was definitely not great, because many on the right were disappointed that there was not enough deregulation. it was about taking the baton forward in the important process of jobs and growth. a few new targets were set. among other things, family policy and the older workforce were discussed. only a small part of this is available on the labour market today, and this needs to change for the future. there are two perspectives on sustainable development. one is a comparison with the commission document, and it is clear that in that perspective the final result was not quite achieved. the second is in relation to the situation. clear, tangible improvements have been made and, most importantly, environmental issues are being brought into the lisbon process. what is the problem with environmental issues today? well, it's that they're on the sidelines, that they always come last. they will now be weighed against economic and social policy each year in a continuous process. that, if anything, is a success. i would also like to say something about global responsibility. the transport policy, the agricultural policy and the fisheries policy were highlighted. i would also like to mention transparency, information and consultation, and especially foreign and security policy. i would like to say that it is gratifying that sweden has taken on such a great responsibility in this area. it is also gratifying that the swedish people have understood that this is not a matter of militarization but that it is, on the contrary, a matter of creating peace and stability in a future europe and its border areas. there is a very high degree of agreement on this issue, if opinion polls in sweden are to be believed. the debate on the future. the convention? yes, but it's not enough to have a convention. we need to broaden the debate beyond a convention to bring it to civil society. if we are to have the debate with civil society, we must do as prime minister persson said. we cannot start with institutional questions, but we must start with what we want the eu to do in five, ten, fifteen years' time and how we are going to do it. the institutional questions are then placed last. ireland, please. we must respect ireland, but we must also respect the other member states. some say we should stop now! shouldn't the swedish parliament or the other parliaments be allowed to discuss the treaty of nice? what is the view of democracy that we should stop immediately because the irish people said no? other peoples also have the right to discuss this matter in their parliaments or in the way they choose, do they not? then we shall see in 2002 what the final result will be, and it is up to the irish people to judge the situation at that time. and finally, a word about the riots: i fully support what enrique barón crespo said. we must distinguish between those who throw stones, who are petty, and those who want to express an opinion on the continuing work of the european union. we shall stimulate debate with civil society, but we shall be tough on those whose only argument is a stone in their hand.
mr president, commissioner, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your work. the swedish presidency deserves praise also from your usually pleasant opponents in sweden. i have often felt both joy and pride during this six-month period, if i may say so. however, i have one major objection, namely the decision on carrier liability with high fines for those who do not comply with eu rules. in practice, this means that the responsibility for the administration of asylum seekers to the union is taken over by the airline employees. this is and remains unacceptable. in january, mr prime minister, you spoke in this parliament of the generous attitude of the european union, of ambitions beyond the geneva convention and of a humane refugee policy. the eu's transport liability is neither humane nor generous, quite the opposite. to use your own words, we in the eu, as a rich part of a global community, should actually be able to afford to be both humane and generous. you, mr prime minister, have had the foresight to give raoul wallenberg the place in history he deserves. may we never betray his memory.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating mr göran persson on a presidency which has been well-executed in many ways. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i have little time to speak, so let me raise two questions where i think the results are unfortunately relatively meagre. one area where more should be done is, of course, the union's strategy for sustainable development. the result of gothenburg was, on the whole, a framework decision of very little substance. i can only hope that the prime minister will continue to push these issues even after the presidency and ensure that we get clear content, clear objectives and timetables in terms of long-term thinking in a number of areas. i note with satisfaction that the prime minister specifically mentioned relations with the third world. they are, of course, a very important part of sustainability work. we cannot achieve sustainable development without taking a global approach from the outset. however, as far as the debate on the future is concerned, i think the result is the weakest. i do not think sweden took the opportunity that it actually had as the presidency to discuss in depth not only the content and direction of the future of the union but also the organisation. i think you've somehow left the walk over. i have heard more from belgium on this subject before it took over the presidency than i have heard from sweden. this is a serious matter, because it is important, not least in view of the openness, democratization and the establishment of citizenship, that we have a debate on this. it is important for europe, but it is especially important for sweden. in our country we still have a debate which is very much about a yes or no to the union and which is not focused on the content or on the form of the organisation. i can therefore only hope that in the coming months, as part of the work of the troika, the prime minister will be actively involved as these issues are now very certainly being pushed forward in belgium.
commission. – as mr stenmarck mentioned, two complaints were indeed lodged in 1997 alleging abuse of a dominant position by the port of helsingborg. the complaints have been under active investigation by the commission since that time. this case raises many complex factual and legal issues and the markets involved have potentially changed significantly in the light of the opening of the øresund bridge in july 2000. the commission is fully aware of the situation of the parties. a series of meetings has been held recently with the main parties concerned, partly to obtain their views on recent market developments and partly to establish whether they see any prospect of reaching a mutually acceptable settlement. if there is no settlement, the commission will continue its investigation with a view to completing this as soon as possible.
i would first like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the present case, where the complaint was lodged with the commission in 1996, that is to say five years ago, there is really only one acceptable response, namely that the commission should immediately take a position. the commissioner has not promised that, so i cannot say that i am satisfied with the answer. this is a matter of very great principle, namely that excessive charges have been levied on a port which is alleged to be in a dominant position. i would like to stress that i have no opinion on whether this is right or wrong, but all parties are waiting for the commission's decision and all parties are also highly dependent on the commission's decision. i think it is unreasonable that it should take more than five years for the commission to give its opinion. i would therefore like to ask the commission: when is a final decision expected to be made?
i would like to thank commissioner monti for his clarifying answer. this issue has aroused a great deal of interest in cultural circles and among representatives of the film industry in sweden. as a man and as a woman, we have reacted to how this could possibly be interpreted in terms of the linguistic and cultural diversity of small member states. i would like to ask the commissioner a follow-up question: can the answer given today guarantee that film production in countries with a smaller distribution of languages, i.e. film production in small member languages, will be regularly exempted from the 50% rule so that in principle all film production in, for example, swedish, danish or portuguese could be counted as not exceeding the 50% rule?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am one of those who are rather disappointed with both the commission proposal and the kara report, because i think they concentrate entirely on the needs of the financial markets and ignore the needs of the employed and the future pensioners. i would like to point out two aspects in particular which i think are missing. when it comes to pensions, the issue of security is crucial for people. there should be at least a value guarantee ensuring that the capital contributed can be paid out even if it does not grow or increase. what do you do, for example, if such pension funds become insolvent, go bankrupt and fail to meet their obligations? there is not a word about this in the report. it is almost even more strange that another important aspect is missing. when we started discussing supplementary pensions, it was said that this was an important eu issue, because we have a common labour market and we expect workers to move between the different european labour markets. if so, however, they face many problems with regard to their pension. today it is very difficult to accumulate pension rights earned in different countries one after the other. how do you do that? this question is not answered. in many countries, long periods of accrual are applied. how do you deal with that in a mobile labour market? in many countries there are rules that impose double taxation. how do you solve it? there are a number of such questions. i therefore think that we would need a completely new proposal from the commission which takes its starting point from the needs of employees and pensioners and does not look only one-sidedly at the needs of the capital market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to congratulate rapporteur rothe. i think she has done an excellent job and has gradually brought this process to an increasingly positive conclusion. i agree with mr turmes that the decision which we will hopefully take tomorrow is a historic decision. this means that the european union is taking a very important step towards a different energy system, one that takes climate issues seriously and the need to diversify the energy system and ensure that an increasing proportion of our energy comes from energy sources that do not adversely affect nature or the climate. the transition to renewable energy sources is an important step. at the same time, great efforts are needed to make our energy use more efficient. we have set a target in the directive that at least 22% of electricity should come from renewable energy sources. like turmes, i am optimistic in this case. once demand kicks in, we know that performance and quality will increase and costs will decrease. this is a rule of thumb for all new technology. such a development naturally requires that energy policy in general develop in the right direction. it requires the elimination of subsidies for fossil fuels, especially coal, the internalisation of external costs for different energy sources in prices and a real boost to research. mr president, i would like to thank you. the developments we are witnessing are important for europe. it is also important for the candidate countries and for the developing countries. i hope that within the framework of this programme and of the eu's overall activities we will be able to develop systems which support both the candidate countries and the developing countries in this direction.
in writing. (sv) the the question concerns the institutional rules applicable to european large capital when it acquires large companies. on the one hand, there is the anglo-saxon tradition of laissez-faire and open market principles, and on the other hand, the protectionist tradition of continental europe. it is no coincidence that one proposal was put forward by a german colleague and the counter-proposal in yesterday's debate was supported mainly by british colleagues. although mr lehne's proposal contains some protective-patriarchal elements for employees of large companies, we consider that none of the alternative proposals serve the interests of the workers. we reject both and demand that the commission return to the issue and put forward a proposal which ensures that the interests of employees and consumers are protected when large companies are bought up.
in writing. - (sv) the swedish christian democrats welcome the directive on the production of electricity from renewable energy sources. we accept that electricity produced by burning the biodegradable fraction of household waste should be included in the national indicative targets. we would like, however, that the incineration of unsorted household waste should not be included as a source of electricity produced from renewable energy sources. that is why we do not accept that the incineration of unsorted household waste is supported. we believe that the compromise which has been negotiated with the council on this subject is too weak in substance. in this context the council has taken a decision, but not in relation to its scope. we believe that the importance of adopting the directive as soon as possible, particularly in view of the pressing role that the eu has and must continue to play in the future climate change discussions, is nevertheless sufficient motivation to support the compromise that has been negotiated with the council in this area. we therefore choose to support the compromise.
mr president, commissioners, the council is in session! the fact that serbia's former dictator slobodan milošević is now on trial in the hague is a great victory for all who believe in human rights and international justice. it shows that genocide and ethnic cleansing cannot be accepted by the international community. the world has become a cooler place for dictators. however, the world's human rights situation does not look much warmer. every day human dignity is violated, every minute individuals and groups are subjected to various types of abuse torture, harassment, oppression. the eu has recently significantly increased its commitment to human rights, and it is clear that the eu is a community of values. this is reflected internally and externally, both in our new charter of fundamental rights and in the requirements we are placing on the applicant countries. the eu is united in its criticism of the death penalty, whether it is used in dictatorships such as china, iraq and saudi arabia or in democracies such as the united states. however, there is still room for improvement in coordination between the eu institutions and between the eu and the member states. in this year's report on human rights in the world, mr wuori has chosen to highlight the issue of freedom of expression. no democracy can work without free and independent debate, journalists can feel safe and citizens can express their opinions. but that is not the case. journalists are killed, threatened and harassed. the situation is particularly alarming in iran, belarus, china, colombia and cuba, but developments in russia are also cause for concern. in several countries, the regime tries to prevent or restrict citizens' access to the internet by censoring or closing websites. these regimes do so because they know that the internet makes it increasingly difficult to suppress their people. the internet is thus an important weapon in the fight for a better world. mr president, liberals all over the world have stood and still stand on the barricades to fight for freedom of speech and human rights everywhere and for everyone. we'll keep it going. my group would like to thank mr wuori for a very good report and the belgian presidency for the commitment to human rights it has shown in the past. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for a fine and solid work. at the same time, i would like to agree with the view of mrs hanja maij-weggen that religious freedom has been treated in an extremely restrictive way. this is about the deepest values of millions of people and their entire platform for life. in egypt, a neighbour of the european union, conversion from islam to christianity is punishable by death. copts feel like second-class citizens. the christian minority in turkey is shrinking. why are more and more people of the christian faith leaving this land? the european parliament played a role in the acquittal of syrian christian priest yusuf acbulut during easter week of the charges brought against him in the diyarbakir security court. there is much to be done in this area. the maldives has been the scene of a mass exodus of 300,000 people, most of them christians. they're being pursued by muslim jihad fighters. forced conversions have taken place with over 1,000 people who have been forced into a faith and outlook different from their own. i would also mention that the french religious freedom act has a lot more to wish for. there is considerable concern among many protestant and evangelical christians around europe about the implications of the french religious law. what a bad example this is for a large number of countries in eastern and central europe, including the czech republic, when these countries are now about to pass new laws. we must be careful not to create an intolerant europe where faith must be one.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is a great deal of agreement here about our position on climate issues, which i think is very important. we must use this consensus to put maximum pressure on the countries which are now deciding the future of the kyoto protocol. we are in fact risking a kind of collapse in the climate negotiations, a collapse that would risk taking us back several years in development. the worst part is that those who are causing the collapse, especially the united states, have no alternative to offer. therefore, everything must now be done to save what can be saved. the european union also has a credibility problem. as previous speakers have said, many of our member states are also not able to meet the requirements of the kyoto protocol. we know that these requirements alone are insufficient to meet the challenges of climate change. what we see in practice when we meet the council of ministers, for example in settlements on incineration plants and national emission ceilings, is that they are not prepared to take the decisions that are taken. when the decision was taken in gothenburg on a strategy for sustainable development, several of the most important points had been removed. of course, the eu's credibility would also be enhanced if we showed that we are prepared to meet the demands we ourselves want to meet. i think this is important in the run-up to the meetings we are now going to have with other countries to decide on the future of the kyoto protocol.
i would like to thank the belgian presidency for its reply and at the same time welcome belgium as the presidency of the council of ministers of the european union after the swedish presidency. many of us, myself included, may well regard belgium as almost our second country, since we live in brussels during the week but are at home, in my case in sweden, during the weekends. i want to come back to the question of turkey. it is obvious that the turkish side has not understood the difference between the eastern and central european countries eligible for the ispa and sapard funds and why turkey is not eligible. is the legislation not clear enough to turkey? there is a feeling in turkey too that people want to be treated fairly and justly. i would ask you to explain why turkey was not eligible for these funds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, mr costa neves, for his proposal and for the good cooperation. we have reached a common position in the committee on budgets on the vast majority of the subjects. if i may guess, i think that this year the budget debate will be dominated by questions of principle rather than by individual budget lines, questions which will be even more important in the coming years. i am thinking in particular of the enlargement and the development of the common foreign and security policy and its budgetary implications. i am thinking of the transformation of agricultural and fisheries policy. i am also thinking of internal reform, not least the commission's ability to implement the decisions of the budgetary authority. the premise is rather troubling. public confidence in the eu is waning in many member states. at the same time, we are facing perhaps the most important change ever: eastern expansion. in the face of this challenge, the eu's ability to implement its priorities must be significantly strengthened. it is therefore worrying, even if some national budget ministers applaud it, that the rate of implementation of the budget is so low that we now have to pay back 11 billion euros to the member states. the problem of promises of aid and of measures which are delayed or not implemented is a black-foot for the whole union. it is therefore good that the commission now wants to increase payments and reform the work towards a more modern, efficient and transparent management. the council cannot change that. as far as the substance is concerned, i would first like to refer to agricultural policy. although this is a big and complex issue, we must now accelerate the pace of change. before we adopt the 2002 budget, and especially before we fully conclude the negotiations with the future member states, we must be clearer about the future agricultural policy. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the view of the committee on agriculture. in its amendments, this committee wants to confirm that agricultural expenditure must be kept within the budgetary framework, but it also wants, despite technical difficulties, not least in the light of enlargement, to reallocate aid to the comprehensive rural development, category 1b. that is good, and i think we should continue along that path. the question we are asking now is why the commission wants such a large reserve for bse and foot-and-mouth disease when it can still adjust the draft budget itself. we want to wait on this until we have more answers to our questions before we take a further position. let me also make a very brief comment on the rupture of the fisheries agreement with morocco. the fact that this cannot be done has consequences for the fishing fleets of several countries. i am one of those who are somewhat sceptical about the eu's large subsidies in the agricultural and fisheries policies, but we must of course take into account the problems of fishermen who have counted on new opportunities for their livelihood. we must support an offensive restructuring and consider the possibility of creating funds for this under budget headings other than category 4. in addition, the commission will have to submit detailed proposals. although the reconciliation we are now going to discuss concerns mainly headings 1, 2 and 5, we would like to take this opportunity to make a few other remarks. last year parliament called for an extra effort to be made on employment and small businesses. after the stockholm summit, the lisbon process has been further developed and there is every reason to stick to this priority. we must also eliminate some of the problems that bartho pronk mentioned earlier. in addition, we are now pointing in particular to the area of e-learning which we believe must be given resources in order to develop into the key area it must become if we are to both increase growth and ensure that it is more evenly distributed across europe. finally, the commission we are also concerned about the external measures. they have been the main difficulty in 2000 and 2001. these problems have not disappeared. we have made huge commitments to kosovo and yugoslavia, while we have great and backward needs in other, even poorer parts of the world. this is one of our most important tasks, but we have major problems that we must be able to solve in order to implement everything we have promised. although there are great challenges ahead, i believe that with goodwill we will be able to solve them together.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are all familiar with the debate on the eu's own resources and the eu tax. it comes back every year. the positions are well known and somehow it seems rather unnecessary to repeat the debate and decisions year after year. apart from the question of principle, one may wonder whether it is really higher and new taxes that the eu member states and the eu citizens need most. we're all heavily taxed. some of the member states are among the most heavily taxed in the world. i myself come from one of them. if you look at these countries, they are hardly the ones that have had the highest economic growth in the last decade. it is true that the report says that the tax will not increase in total. however, this is theoretical reasoning that has very little to do with practical reality. i also think that it is fair to say that if you introduce a tax, especially as in this case a completely new level of tax, it will certainly increase. it's about to become inevitable. i also note that the rapporteur wants to 'strengthen the links between the union and its citizens'. it is a matter of great heart and urgency, but i think it should be done in a very different way. i very much doubt that citizens would feel that their ties to the eu are strengthened by receiving higher taxes than they already have.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. the background to this report and to the commission communication it deals with is a number of very serious accidents which have occurred in the mining industry in recent years. in 1998, a mine collapse in spain had very serious ecological consequences. another similar accident occurred in romania in 2000. both of these accidents had international environmental consequences. in recent years we have also seen similar but less extensive accidents with collapsing mine dams, for example in northern sweden and in wales. this has led the eu to review its legislation on this type of mining. at the same time, we have very large quantities of old mining waste stored in various places, which release heavy metals and other toxins into the environment. the content of this waste and the extent of the problem are not fully understood. so mine waste is one of our major environmental problems. safety in mining is also a major environmental problem. the commission's proposal sets out its ideas on how to improve eu legislation in this area. in the report we have essentially concluded that the approach is good. we have a number of views on what we think this should contain more concretely and what we want the commission to propose. we stress that the responsibility for accidents should be borne exclusively by the company, including the environmental consequences, and that the mining industry should be included in the forthcoming liability directive. we want more research in this area. there are major shortcomings in the research on the management of mining waste, and we want to develop the techniques currently available in different countries. we also want the eu to review its own funding for projects in this area. as regards the main proposals, my report proposes that the current inventory should also include the candidate countries. the inventory involves going through old mining waste and seeing where it causes serious environmental problems. we know that the situation in many candidate countries may be more serious than in the present member states. we also stress that we want a common methodology to enable results to be compared in different directions. we believe that in cases where it is found that there are major problems, these must also be followed up with real action plans. the main element of the commission's proposal is the proposal for a new framework directive on the management of mining waste. i, as rapporteur, and the committee on the environment, consider that to be the right approach. a specific directive is needed, as neither the waste directive nor the landfill directive is particularly suited to the management of mining waste. we also stress that this directive must deal with both old mining waste and existing production in progress. this directive should also include a rule requiring member states to have legislation on the restoration of installations that have been used for mining. such legislation exists today in several member states but not in all, especially not in the candidate countries. we want to have special rules on dust safety that directly affect these accidents. we also want a direct ban on the method used in romania, in baia mare, where cyanide was used in open pits in the extraction of metals. it is an extremely dangerous method which risks seriously damaging the surrounding environment if the dam breaks, as was the case in romania. a third part of the proposals is to review the so-called seveso ii directive. the aim is to extend the scope of that directive to include requirements for contingency plans and information for mining. the only amendment to the report in this area is from the conservative ppe-de group. the amendment proposes that the obligation under the seveso ii directive be limited to mining operations involving the extraction of ore, i.e. metal extraction. i think it is premature to draw such a line before the commission's proposal has even been tabled. it would be unwise to do so at this time. instead, all types of mining should be kept open to the scope of this directive. when we discussed this matter in committee, there was a great deal of agreement. i thank my colleagues for their comments and for the support they have given me. we have also had very good cooperation with the commission and are now looking forward to receiving the first of the promised proposals quite soon, not least this revision of the seveso ii directive. we hope that the commission will listen to us on this point in future proposals. thank you for your cooperation.
- (sv) mr president, the group of the european people's party/european free alliance, to which i belong, naturally wishes to congratulate the rapporteur. we are entirely in line with the proposals in the report. i do not intend to go into detail, but i would just like to say that we hope that a global proposal from the committee on asia and latin america will be tabled shortly - next summer, please note. more generally, i think we should criticise the commission and the council for having shown poor preparation for the legislative process, which has drawn enormously on the payment of the limited means available for development aid. many humanitarian organizations and ngos are now desperately waiting for this money. this can't happen! i would also like to remind the commission that the gothenburg summit committed itself to contributing to sustainable development on a global scale, in particular by seeking to achieve the 0.7% of gnp target proposed by the un for development aid. i would ask the commission what plans it has to achieve this objective, bearing in mind that germany is only devoting 0.25% of its gnp to this and that sweden, denmark and luxembourg are either meeting or even exceeding this objective. what are, therefore, our plans to achieve this goal? i think it is a shame that germany is practically on the same level as the usa.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the swedish christian democrats reject points 5 and 11, which provide for the european union to have its own taxation system. we refuse to raise the level of citizens' taxes. swedish taxpayers pay taxes to the municipality, the region and the state. the creation of an additional budgetary authority at european level will inevitably lead to higher taxes in the long term. we cannot support such a development. if the eu achieves what the report calls 'financial autonomy', it will achieve a degree of political independence from the member states and their governments, with all the dangers and lack of control that this entails. we cannot support such a development.
in writing. - (sv) as a swedish christian democrat i voted against paragraphs 78 and 82-84, which are aimed at administering the legislation of the member states in the field of family policy. this is a national issue, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which has no place in a report on human rights in europe. i also voted against paragraphs 119 and 120 concerning the right to vote in the european parliament for persons who do not belong to one of the eu member states. responsibilities and obligations should be linked to rights and eligibility. this must be seen as a self-evident principle and rule of life.
- (sv) mr president, mr commissioner, nobody ignores the reputation of this chamber for the death penalty, wherever it is applied. the european parliament has fought a long and determined battle against this barbaric penalty, and we know that we have a good ally, mr commissioner patten. mr commissioner, we really appreciate your work in this area. our common struggle has been to abolish the death penalty in our candidate countries, one after the other. this is an undeniable requirement for those who want to belong to the european community. the pace of change in turkey is abolishing the death penalty - which is a major demoralizing factor. sometimes it may seem that a fight against a penny capital is not worth the hope in a world like this. the colleague who preceded me referred to the figures which describe the situation in the world. it is important to bear in mind that 90% of all executions take place in just four countries. the worst of all is china, with more than 1,000 executions this year alone. but it is also deeply tragic that they have placed the usa on the same list as the dictators. we have repeatedly appealed to the american regime to impose a moratorium on the death penalty and the use of the death penalty on adolescents and mentally handicapped persons. a simple suspicion that a single innocent person could be executed - and we know this has happened in the usa - should be the basis for abolishing the death penalty. however, there is a light at the end of the tunnel. a promise that is seeing a certain change, albeit slow, in american public opinion. in addition, during the 1990s, 30 countries abolished the death penalty. there is an excellent conference on this subject in strasbourg this week. both the eu and the council of europe are working tirelessly together. to further strengthen the fight against the death penalty and ensure its continued presence on the agenda, my colleague mr rutelli proposed, a year ago, that the european parliament establish a european day against the death penalty. we can all sign it, until the day when the death penalty is abolished all over the world. i note with satisfaction the agreement of this assembly and hope that the council and the commission will work with the european parliament to establish this day.
- (sv) mr president, next friday there will be a vote on the city which will host the olympic games in 2008. the olympic games are an opportunity for men and women from all over the world to meet in competition on equal terms, in the spirit of peace and cooperation between nations. it is customary to say that, despite the brutal dictatorships of many of the participating countries, we are still a democracy and respect human rights. the olympic committee has the responsibility of promoting the ideals which gave rise to the olympic games. the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, to which i belong, has asked the international olympic committee to define guidelines for the countries which may host the olympic games, guidelines which must include respect for human rights and democratic principles. one of the two most powerful candidates in beijing. beijing is the capital of one of the most diverse cultures in the world. repression of dissent, torture, censorship of the media and the internet and mass executions in all other countries together are some of the ways in which a chinese regime seeks to keep its population under control. the continuing occupation and oppression of the people of tibet. religious minorities are not authorised to practice their religion. since two years, the regime has systematically persecuted falun gong practitioners; tens of thousands of adepts have been imprisoned and tortured, in some cases to death. recently, 15 women were tortured to death in a chinese labor camp, with authorities saying they attempted suicide. we defend the idea that beijing should organise the olympic games but we must not interfere with politics and sport. but that's exactly what the chinese regime does. if beijing wins the olympic games, this victory will have enormous propaganda value for the chinese regime and serve to relieve pressure on the country to change its policy. in a declaration on the candidacy of beijing, the international olympic committee writes the following: the existence of strict state control in beijing is sound and may favour the operational efficiency of the organisation of the olympic games. they call it oppression, they call it "saudable" and they put our heads on our feet! human rights activists of all stripes are united in demanding that an organization of the olympic games not be handed over to china. the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party therefore appeals to all the members of the international olympic committee to vote against the candidacy of beijing on friday.
(sv) mr president, i would like to address mr patten and all of us to paragraph 7 of the resolution on belarus. the european parliament called on the russian government and president putin to support a political union between russia and belarus, a democratic multiparty system and pluralistic development in belarus. there is a means of influencing belarus through russia. the european union must take advantage of all the forms of political union which exist, de facto, between these two states. we have great confidence that mr patten will always be aware of this situation in the union. to conclude, i recall that in the october 2000 elections to the parliament of belarus, one fourth of the candidates was prevented from running. this is a good example of the kind of regime we are talking about.
(sv) arvoisa puhemies, oli melko ahdistavaa kuunnella neuvoston edustajaa, koska hän näyttää uskottava, että lähi-itä konflikti tapahtuvat tasavertaisten osapuolten välillä, joita meidän pitää kohdistaa samanarvoisina equidistant. (sv) i would like to ask the president of the council to be informed of the fact that the council has not yet reached a decision on the matter. have you not forgotten that this is the most socially and economically viable occupation, which internationalisms rights are based on the kind of origin and the place of origin? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: why should the eu treat israelis and palestinians equally? the european union is also committed to the development of the kosovo peace process. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the court of justice of the european union has ruled that the right to a fair trial is not incompatible with the right to a fair trial. no, this is all about the tits. the conflict prevention network has repeatedly stated that it will not impose economic sanctions on israel. commissioner patten, is there any reason why the cpn should be dissolved? the eilisen süddeutsche zeitung - the paper of record for the eu on news - has rightly been adopted by the eu's five major member states, our main competitors, and its integrity is still uncertain. the president of the republic shall be elected by the national assembly of the republic. what is the eu's role in the protection of the right to move and reside freely? what is the ambitious objective of an independent foreign policy? what has happened to the ambitious goals of completing the most outstanding palestinian economic and administrative support through the harkitun and the force policy? see on tuntunut shark and the taiwanese tuuliin. see on the right of the votes.
in writing. -sv) the idea of a european company statute has been discussed in the eu since the 1970s. the european company (se) form agreed at the nice summit, which includes directives on employee participation, seems to be as far in the future as possible, given the diversity of legislation in our 15 member states. we support the council's proposal and reject the amendments calling for common european taxation rules.
is not the case. (sv) arvoisa puhemies, pian tulee kuluneeksi kymmenen vuotta, kun viro sai itsenäisyytensä takaisin. (sv) the first time i was in a foreign country, i was in a foreign country, and i was in a foreign country. the world's most secure and europe's most dynamic and competitive marketplace. the conditions for european cooperation have changed fundamentally, and for the time being the union is unable to fulfil them. but the political visionaries of the west european presence, such as president kohlin, president reagan, prime minister thatcher and president gorbachev, have been the unwillingness of this progress, but above all the individualist freedom of the people has been the possibility of this current wave of change. it is the most dangerous man in the world, and the youngest of the old, who fear the law, but are not yet free. arvoisa puhemies, see, that on gotten to kokea tämän vapauden ja vapautumisen voiton, on loistava perintö. (the president of the republic of poland, in his capacity as president of the republic of poland, declares that the president of the republic of poland is the president of the republic of poland.) it is also a reminder of how democracy has become a dictatorship and how freedom has changed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the as well as the protection of the environment, which is a key objective of the european union, we must also ensure that the european union increases the freedom and the opportunity for citizens to enjoy freedom of movement, to improve their well-being, to develop diversity and to tackle environmental and crime-related problems. this may not be the same dramatic task as the peripherality of the community at the time, but i think it's at least the same great task, that it's your opportunity to win a lot of money, but then the task may be difficult. the right of the people to be free to vote is the most important task of the european parliament and the european parliament must be given the opportunity to participate in the decisionmaking process. it also shows, especially for newcomers to the eu, that everyone can move to another country to express their own ideas. this is the only way to get the right amount of money. as active as the member states are in their work, the eu is also involved in this area. i would like to thank the commission for the work it has done on this matter, but i would like to call into question the council's objective and ability to act on this matter. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. viro on the other hand, welcomes the political agreement and cooperation that have been reached in preparing for eu membership. the commission's efforts have demonstrated that the eu has a lot of unrealistic expectations in many areas, especially in the field of trade and the promotion of new languages. viron kehitys on joka mielessä menestystarina, because there has happened a lot during the ten years of the play. the rental agreement is based on the security policy. we cannot consider the eu as a single entity, but we believe that the eu has a number of powers which are currently lacking. then there are the virolaises who want to join nato. the virolaises, who have been the victims of the soviet dictatorship and communism, know that freedom of the press is the most important individual issue. we in the ppe-de group agree with this analysis and with the other amendments. parliament shall be a group of persons who are particularly concerned about the quality of life of the population of the country in which they live and have been living for a significant period of time. the european union is a global player in the field of education and training. the eu economy needs more dynamism and less power, and the eu must support the technician. the most serious cases of minority discrimination are those in the netherlands. it's not a simple question. it's not a school, it's a school. the existence of a community and a single market requires the existence of a functioning rule of law and institutions and laws which do not discriminate against anyone but are fair. the police will have to take these questions seriously also in the practical workplace. see also the equal opportunities section. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in a fair and transparent manner. arvoisa puhemies, tässäkin suhteessa viro on the right side of the road. i would like to thank my colleagues who have participated in this work and i would also like to thank the president of the office.
(sv) arvoisa puhemies, on hienoa saada kokea this exciting time in the history of europe, in which we are still united. i hope that our new friends and colleagues will be able to spend a few years with us in our own rooms, rather than just listening to the news. then we could solve problems together and create a good environment for european citizens, and that would be the right time. after 12 years, when the berlin wall was torn down and the european currency was introduced, the countries that had finally won the war against communism were able to enjoy the benefits of membership. i'm not going to do anything, but i'm going to see you in your wonderful memories, which are the centerpieces of today. asia is making substantial progress, and the belgian presidency is the highest-ranking member of the european council. it is important that the requirements are no longer being met. the eu still has a lot to do. the most used are the petty ones of the nizzan huippukokouksen laihaan tulokseen and the toivomme paljon of the laekenin huippukokoukselta. the process of unification is a two-way process, which is facilitated by the accession of the member states to the european union. together we have a unique mission to ensure that all countries have the opportunity to join the european union. we must also be proud of the fact that we have so far built our europe and the europe we are building together.
the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take a decision on it in due course. it is true that i work very closely with minister michel, but a complete transubstantiation has not yet taken place. i would like to begin, ladies and gentlemen, by apologizing for being a little late and not being on time for 3:00 p.m. that was because i was attending the conference of committee chairmen on behalf of the presidency. since i also do not possess the gift of ubiquitas, i was unable to be here on time, for which i apologize again. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, many of you have referred - usually with great pleasure and with great sympathy - to the contacts you have had with people in the applicant countries, the visits you have made there and so on, either in the speeches this morning or in the very interesting reports you have made on the progress of the applicant countries. that's the case with me, too. i have already visited all the capitals of all the candidate countries with which we are negotiating at least once, and in some cases two, three or more times. it is true that this creates a bond which generates more than a purely theoretical political interest for the countries concerned. i am almost moved to see how you treat the applicant countries on which you have to report in your progress reports almost like a peter and a meter. i am glad to say that this parliament has been one of the great engines of enlargement in its successive formations. an engine that never sputtered, that never stopped, and i believe you can put that on your blazer. but there's more. i would also like to congratulate the commission, commissioner verheugen and his services on the enormous negotiating work they are doing, not only in the spirit of mrs lalumière but also because i feel that way myself. they are currently negotiating over 300 different negotiations. you simply have to multiply the chapters by the number of member states. i know there are parallels, but never can two situations be completely compared. the public, which hardly knows because it is not told enough, thinks that accession is taking so long because we are hesitant or because we have not already made really good decisions. she has no idea how complex this whole thing is. that's not the fault of public opinion. that's the fault of all those, including ourselves, who didn't tell her. the work is not yet finished, but it has been said: the finish line is in sight. then, of course, the nervousness increases, and so does the stakes for who will cross the finish line first. i fully agree with commissioner verheugen that we would be wrong to speculate at this stage on which candidate countries will be in the first wave and which will not. it is still far too early, but we must all start to deliberate together on how we will effectively translate these accessions into deeds. i would like to add, as a small anecdote, that when sweden, finland and austria joined - and that was also a record of a long-announced fact that had been known for a long time - there were still not enough interpreters and translators, to underline just one aspect. the problem is of course becoming much more complex, but all the institutions will have to consider this in due course. i said this morning that enlargement is the future of the union. mr jonckheer, a fellow countryman but not a party member, has denied this, saying that the future is uncertain. i repeat what i said this morning. i would add that i did not say that pro forma. i have said that because i am firmly convinced of it, although i am happy to say that the future will not be limited to enlargement, but that this is the first major task we have to fulfil in the near future. that's for sure. the prime minister of my country shares this view and, moreover, i can assure you that in his proposals for the preparation of the igc he is undoubtedly providing a place and a role for the applicant countries. i am therefore responding to a concern expressed by mr poettering, the leader of the group of the european people's party, this morning. at the so-called 'gymnich meeting' later this week, the candidate countries will be taking part in the debate on the future of europe. the informal council in ghent and, of course, the european council in laeken will deal with enlargement in detail. it will be approached in the spirit that commissioner verheugen and i have set out and also in the spirit that almost all of you have endorsed without exception in your respective statements.
(sv) the most important investments that can be made in the whole of europe are in the areas of transport, rail and other infrastructure. europe can be seen from a bird's-eye-view, and it is clear that the idea of the entity and the country in which the welfare state is established has been developed. it is also clear that the eu and its member states will benefit greatly from the fact that the participating candidate countries will be responsible for the management of the exchange rate and will ensure that it is linked to other european currencies. this is a very important issue for poland as a country in terms of regional policy, transport and tourism. the most powerful country in the world, and the last ten years of its existence, the most powerful and most powerful nation in the world. in the eu, the term 'foreign' is often used, but only in poland, where it is considered to be the most important, it is important that the issues are examined from the outside. poland is now one of europe's most important cities, with good transport links to northern and southern europe. the commission has also adopted a communication on the future of the european transport system. from the northern direction, the transport services could have more opportunities for transportation. the commission has also helped germany to develop a more competitive environment, which is good for business. on the day when poland, together with the other member states of the baltic sea region, becomes a member state of the eu, we can jointly set requirements for the environmental treatment of both marine safety and the baltic sea region. poland's eu membership is therefore very useful, but it is not enough to guarantee its future.
(sv) mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. it is therefore appropriate to take note of the fact that the commission continues to grant ecpat the right to use the product. i'd like to say that the sexual abuse is over, even though there's no longer any evidence of it. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the commission continue this work. the commissioner nielson has tabled a proposal on the possibility of a european aid scheme. the european aid agency is a development aid agency. in this case, ecpat's activities are not limited to developing countries, since its main activities are in developing countries. i'm not a maniac. we have just received a report from ecpat, which says that approximately 400 children aged 4 months to 17 years are being held in detention. these are some of the historical revelations which show that we cannot stop supporting our own and that we cannot grant any more support to our own organisations. the members of the commission are therefore urged to ensure that this happens. the organiser must be able to carry out his or her duties.
(sv) i would like to thank commissioner nielsonia for her positive response. in response to the question, the member states may adopt the theory of entitlement to a hearing, which means that there is no change in the criteria used to assess the case, or that there is no system, in this case ecpat, entitled to eu support. commissioner nielson, i should like to say that, like your colleague mr erkki liikanen, we have today responded positively to the questions which our colleagues in the european parliament have raised. we feel that we are also interested in fighting against the fact that human dignity is now being eroded by the new technologies and the most important means of enslavement. i should also like to say - and in this case i think we will speak on behalf of the member states - that we have to wait a while before we have to answer questions concerning the ecpat's lack of coherence with the operational programme and the long-term nature of the funding to be granted. the asian colonial period ended with the collapse of the second empire.
(sv) the russian and international media have new information that the christian aid aid organisation, including the russian oil company lundin oil, which is run by the un secretary-general for the balkans, mr carl bildt, is seeking to help sudanese refugees. have commissioner nielson and the commission at any time been in contact with christian aid and lundin oil company and perhaps also with un adviser carl bildt regarding their allegations concerning human rights violations in the context of the oil exploration mission in south sudan?
(sv) the members of the commission shall be appointed by the president. the swedish highway speed limit is 110 km/h, but new money has been raised to cover cars that can reach speeds of 250 km/h. it is also a very important factor in the development of the european union. there are in fact no road safety aspects which would justify such a clearance. since then, it has become increasingly difficult to establish such requirements, which are subject to autonomy and high insurance costs. the members of the commission understood from the reply that the second clearance should be introduced by the national authorities after the first clearance. did you get the answer right?
(sv) arvoisa komission jäsen, minäkin haluan aluksi onnitella siitä, mitä bonnissa tapahtui. (sv) i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. many of us were eager to see the conference proceedings. the results of the study were evaluated by the european commission. i would like to stress that the work of both the members of the commission and the presidency of the council and the presidency of the belgian government has had a great impact on the work of the group. it is not just about what happened at the bonn conference itself, but also about the commission's members making good preparations to meet the targets set by the kyoto protocol. we can only choose that the atlantic is on the other side of the political divide. we can only hope that the way in which the political opinion is being formed will have some influence on the fact that the united states will also be involved in this necessary work. american companies will probably realize in the long run that they are thinking about something, because they are not participating in this development. i'm not going to tell you. the eu is committed to joining the global community in the fight against climate change, and all countries must participate in the action, especially the united states, which is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases in the world. the newest technology in the health sector. as the second protocol notes, the kyoto protocol is a major step forward. the commission is not obliged to do so, but its members are obliged to inform the council of the proposal for ratification before the end of the year and to return to the matter by sending the european parliament the information and proposals on the trade in goods. i would like to emphasise what parliament has said in the past, namely that the emission allowance should never be used as a basis for action. the death penalty is necessary. we need to change our transport systems and our emissions to reduce the impact of climate change. the list also includes: protocols and decisions on the conclusion of joint commitments and other agreements. it was not to be expected that the results would have been so significant. norway is a good example of how to use the eu in the same way. i hope that the unmarried will follow this example. the marrakesh conference is about to take place. the roadmap also provides an opportunity to start discussions on how to tackle these issues. the commission has also proposed that the kyoto protocol be amended to include a new protocol to the kyoto protocol. at the end of the meeting, i would like to thank once again the members of the commission and the presidency of the council for their work on this subject.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr schmid, and also mr von boetticher and mr coelho, the chairman of the committee. you've all done important work. echelon turned out to be less extensive than we thought and the issue is now relatively de-dramatized. however, the echelon debate has helped to raise awareness of these issues, which was absolutely necessary. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. the future question of how to develop the overall safety systems without compromising fundamental principles has taken a step forward. there is no evidence that the united states has damaged the global competitive situation by disseminating corporate information. however, the report points to our need to develop security and encryption. i particularly welcome the clear position taken against bribery. as a swede, this feels very good. of course, cooperation at eu level on this issue will require national control centres, in line with the proposed network. the work on echelon carried out in the committee has brought us closer together, thanks in large part to the very special qualities of the rapporteur, mr gerhard schmidt.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to the rapporteur for a good report! the main conclusion can be seen as simple: echelon is real. however, it took a long time before we could determine that. let me highlight two aspects of the report. in my view, there is not enough concern about privacy and the protection of individuals. it is therefore good that the rapporteur has specifically highlighted these issues in his speech. the economic interests of the companies are of course very important, as has also been pointed out, but they are not everything. there are indications that the surveillance system is not only used for industrial espionage, but also for eavesdropping on individuals or organisations. echelon has the capability to intercept communications such as e-mails, faxes and phone calls between individuals. british journalist duncan campbell even suggested that echelon was being used to intercept amnesty and the red cross. if this is true, it is extremely serious. in this case, the eu must be able to act, as mentioned earlier, as well as national parliaments and governments. in a democratic state governed by the rule of law, the protection of the individual must always come first, as the president-in-office of the council has pointed out earlier. my second comment is about encryption. encryption is the only effective defense against eavesdropping. however, the encryption technology is still in its infancy and there are several export barriers for civilian encryption systems. however, the large-scale exchange of information in europe raises the issue of common standards and rules for encryption. the eu institutions must be able to act together on this issue.
in writing. we have not voted in favour of mr brok's resolution. the resolution reflects a development of european cooperation which we do not support. we do not believe that the development of a common defence is in the interests of either the present or future member states and we are opposed to involving nato in a resolution on eu enlargement. we think that the resolution overlooks too lightly the problems that schengen is causing to a number of candidate countries, for example, with regard to regional cohesion in the form of trade and other relations with neighbouring states outside the union, including the question of the future of kaliningrad, which is not seriously addressed by the rapporteur. the resolution also barely addresses the problems raised by the transitional arrangements that the eu requires, for example on the free movement of workers. such a system will, on the one hand, prolong the problem of illegal labour from candidate countries in the present member states and, on the other hand, give the population of the candidate countries a feeling of being second-class members of the eu. we also think that the resolution is weak when it deals with the agricultural and structural funds. we welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on the need to include both the environmental and the social consequences of the regulations, but if we want enlargement to be fair, a minor adjustment in these two fundamental areas is far from sufficient. finally, the author's arrogance towards the population is absolutely incomprehensible and we want to emphasize the right of the population of any country to decide for itself.
in writing. - s7v) we wish to point out that we voted against the collins report not because we are opposed to the principle of information to customers, nor because we consider these matters to be of no importance, but because we believe that they are not a matter for the european parliament.
in writing. - (da) we voted against the report of the temporary committee on the echelon interception system. the report has one positive aspect, but there are far too many negative aspects. the good news is that the commission has acknowledged echelon's existence. among the negative aspects, we would like to highlight the following three points: 1. the despite the commission's conclusion on the actual existence of echelon, it was unable to explain its precise political consequences. we believe that this is the least that can be expected from a politically elected assembly. 2. the the commission has decided to concentrate on the illegal interception of private companies and it completely ignores the serious violation of the right to privacy, as stated in the european convention on human rights. the commission has no other political conclusions to draw here than to point out that the obligation laid down in the convention on human rights to guarantee the fundamental rights of citizens will also benefit all citizens, who are invited, through encryption, to protect themselves against illegal interception. 3. the the commission notes that a member state is participating in the eschelon cooperation on illegal wiretapping, but it does not draw any political conclusions from this either. on the contrary, it proposes to speed up the process of creating a common european cooperation for intelligence research - a cooperation in which britain, as part of echelon, can freely participate if it so wishes. we are disappointed with the outcome of the committee's work. parliament has not lived up to its responsibilities in strengthening human rights. the struggle for human rights is clearly more visible in official speeches. when it comes to taking concrete action, the rights of citizens are overshadowed by private economic interests.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. we are all affected daily by the risks of the new computer crimes. it happens every time we make a credit card transaction, pick up the phone, open an email, or go out and fly. it is about the traditional crimes that reach us with the help of information technology: child pornography, counterfeiting, xenophobia, trafficking in drugs, people, organs, weapons, etc. however, it is also about new types of crime against the functioning of society: virus spreading, illegal intrusion, hacking, denial of service attacks, etc. traditional methods of combating crime are not enough, even if online crime is as criminal as offline crime. the underworld is threatening society with new methods from a digital platform. the criminals exploit the differences in legislation between member states, and the eu must stand together. the commission has put forward proposals which the committee is encouraging and developing. we call for common definitions to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, the approximation of criminal and procedural law and the mutual recognition of pre-trial procedures. we want to make europol and eurojust more efficient, but at the same time we want to set clear limits. now, there are also controversial demands for the interception, recording and storage of our communications. the committee calls for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the quality of food and for the establishment of a european standardisation body for foodstuffs. the committee also calls for the prohibition of such privacy attacks, unless the measure meets all the following requirements: it is necessary, it is well justified, it is the only possible solution, it is proportionate to the crime, it is limited in time and it is decided by a court. nobody wants a big brother society. we in the european union must follow our own demand for cheap internet access for all citizens, which means that we cannot pass the costs of this on to businesses. we want to encourage voluntary cooperation and have therefore proposed the creation of an open forum where the experiences of different actors can come together and create synergies, a forum where understanding can increase, awareness of these problems can be developed and best practices promoted. this is where industry, law enforcement and consumers can develop a code of conduct and develop early warning and crisis management systems. preventive technologies and protective measures can be developed and disseminated here. we also need coordination within the eu to ensure that our actions are not disrupted at global level. member states and candidate countries should be invited to develop a common tactic and a coherent eu line within international bodies such as the un, the oecd, the council of europe and the g8. the committee was unanimous in its support for the report's message of better respect for privacy and data protection in the face of the need to develop increasingly effective measures against computer-related crime. finally, a big thank you to all those who have helped to draw up this report; you are many, as there are many conflicting interests that have been brought together. the two amendments tabled to the report are brief. they can be seen as technical. one is to add the word 'terrorism', which was unanimously adopted by the committee as an oral amendment, and then somehow dropped from the text for the plenary. the word 'terrorism' should of course be included in a report on cybercrime. we also want to change the term 'labelling'. this amendment is proposed because 'labelling' is clearly less comprehensive than 'certification', which we want to introduce. the term we use in english, "labeling", gets a little weird in translation. so this is mainly a translation issue. i now come to the cappato report. since i do not have much time, i will devote myself entirely to the opt-in/opt-out debate. it is too early to abolish subsidiarity and force everyone to abandon the status quo of freedom of choice and to introduce an opt-in clause instead. it is a matter of the european parliament. we can have a new 'cucumber debate' with criticism of the eu's regulatory activities. this action could harm future legislation in the field of information technology and make our existing legislation inconsistent, as it would be contrary to two heavy-duty directives in the field of information technology. it would also damage the debate on constitutional issues, as such action could lead to a loss of confidence in the eu. this applies in particular to the european parliament, if we adopt inconsistent positions. we are in the midst of a process of technological development, with filters and broadband, which could make this opt-in/opt-out debate in three years old and outdated. i do not think we should be stuck in a position of obsolescence and at the same time abolish the option of choice without gaining any added value. a european opt-in solution does not eliminate spam, as much of it comes from sources outside the eu. the united states itself, for example, has not harmonised its legislation. opt-in brings with it problems of demarcation between commercial information on the one hand and community information and ngos on the other. it could also hinder the development of online newspapers and create a nuisance for small businesses who have to store their information in case they were prosecuted and how would the punishment be meted out? finally, mr president, we politicians should not legislate as soon as we see a phenomenon we do not like. we politicians do not always know best what is best for each individual and each company at each particular moment. we politicians must speed up the development and dissemination of the technical products that clean up spam and the requirement for revision, as the amendment by palacio vallelersundi does. finally, we politicians must defend freedom of expression, not unnecessarily and unwarily restrict it.
i would like to thank the belgian presidency for its reply. the european union is a union of common values. these are the things that bind us together, not mammon or money, but the common culture and humanity that unites us europeans. in this case, i refer to the question of french legislation and its derogatory concept of sectaire, because it is not an uplifting concept. i refer to the vagueness and arbitrariness of the term itself, the fact that the legislation is not specified but says that when people are forced into submission or subjected to repeated pressure or other techniques in order to change their judgment, the penalty can be up to five years in prison or five million french francs in fines. i would like to reiterate that the catholic church and many churches in france are very sceptical of this legislation. is this not a matter of human dignity, of democracy?
i too would like to thank the council of ministers for its detailed reply, but i would like to see a clarification. can you give some examples, concrete examples of documents which were previously secret but which will now be made public under the new rules? i mean certain kinds of documents that you now have hopes that they will be able to be made public to the public. it is only when we know what kinds of documents are really going public that we can talk about a real success and increased openness.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very pleased that the rapporteur, mr ries, and the environment committee have sharpened the commission's proposal on brominated flame retardants. we know that pentabde, octabde and also decabde are resistant, toxic and also bioaccumulative since the discovery of high brominated flame retardants high up in the food chain. it is in swedish environmental research that it has been established that even dekabde is bioaccumulative. the whole group must therefore be banned. the precautionary principle requires that we act now and not wait for the risk assessment which is under way, and which is proposed for the december in amendment no 16. decabde accounts for 80% of the use of brominated flame retardants. waiting until 2006 to ban would mean the release of tons of high-risk chemicals into the environment, which would clearly be contrary to the precautionary principle. i therefore welcome the green group's amendments which seek to ban the whole group of brominated flame retardants now.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would just like to explain very briefly the two amendments. they are not so much political as technical. the first amendment concerns the amendment on terrorism. it was an oral amendment which was adopted unanimously in committee, but unfortunately for technical reasons this amendment was not adopted. it would therefore not have required any amendments in this house, but simply approving the unanimous decision of the committee. the second amendment is a linguistic one. in english, the term labelling had been used. a better word in english would have been certification, which obviously becomes clearer in translation also in the other language versions.
in writing. -{sv) i have chosen to oppose the view taken by my group on the rules applicable to the sending by e-mail of advertising not requested by consumers. electronic advertising is generally a nuisance to the consumer, in particular because it takes time to open it and make it disappear. it also contributes to the spread of viruses on the internet. and it is the consumer who has to bear the cost of receiving and reading this advertisement. in this context, i believe that only the opt-in solution can effectively protect the consumer from unsolicited advertising. my position on this matter influenced my vote in the final vote on this report.
in writing. -{sv) i have supported, by voting today, a substantial strengthening of the position of the european ombudsman. the proposal is to amend article 3 of the ombudsman's statute so that he can have access to files classified as confidential within the union. it is also proposed that all civil servants working in the framework of the union should be required to give exhaustive and truthful testimony and that their duty of loyalty to the employer should be abolished. the public officials will thus have the duty to defend the truth and the citizens, rather than their own institution. this is a decisive step forward in transparency and democratic control within the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. calls on the taliban regime in afghanistan to facilitate the activities of ngos in providing urgent humanitarian aid and food security to the afghan population; why are people fleeing afghanistan in droves, in thousands? what kind of regime is running this country? most recently, the christian relief organization shelter now international has been banned from afghanistan, and its activities are being forced to cease. eight of its staff, including four from an eu country from germany as well as two from the us and two from australia, have been put on trial in kabul this week for alleged christian missionary activity. the prosecution is seeking the death penalty. sixteen afghans are also being tried under the same muslim law and are facing the death penalty for converting from islam to christianity. chris patten, louis michel and even javier solana are acting for the protection of these people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was part of the delegation that visited washington last week. i saw the shock, the horror and the despair that the attack created, and i shared and felt this grief and despair. i still feel strongly for the survivors of the missing. mr president, i would like to thank you. now that i have listened to the debate here, i have put away the manuscript of the speech i had prepared. i would rather talk about something that has grown up in me while listening to this discussion. i am deeply concerned both by what has happened and by the reaction to the events in america and europe. i am convinced that while we feel this horror, there are millions and millions of people out there who have actually cheered this act of terror. i think many poor people in asia, africa and other parts of the world have cheered. we have read that young people in palestine celebrated this act of violence. i don't think they were alone in that, but there are millions and millions of people out there who have reacted that way. this fills me with tremendous dread and horror, because it means that we are facing a world where there are millions of potential terrorists and violent offenders of this kind. we have to start asking ourselves if we are witnessing some kind of social warfare. does this have anything to do with the colonial revolt? from my youth, i remember the mau mau uprising, which was described as a terrorist uprising. we all remember the vietnam war, for example. is it a social war that is somehow behind recent events or is it being warned by them? in that case, the thought of mass bombings in the middle east or of enormous, insane police checkpoints is pointless. our only chance then is a policy of enormous transformation and redistribution, a policy that removes the despair and hopelessness in the world that breeds and creates terrorism. otherwise we will never be able to be safe, despite the carpet bombs and despite all the security services in the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a well-known swedish tv documentary two weeks ago showed how religious leaders, christians and muslims, in sweden recommend circumcision, how swedish residents mutilate their daughters in kenya and somalia during summer vacation, how circumcisers are flown into sweden to be mutilated, and how a swedish doctor fails to report to the social authorities that he saved a girl from bleeding to death after her parents had her mutilated. for those of us who work against genital mutilation, it is precisely the support of holy men for this torture that is most disheartening. religious leaders have a special responsibility. their influence is enormous, and their voices are crucial to ending mutilation. i welcome the excellent report by mr valenciano martínez-orozco calling for a comprehensive strategy to eliminate genital mutilation in the eu, including extensive information campaigns and laws against genital mutilation in all member states. the need to introduce specific national laws that also apply to mutilation beyond national borders is particularly important, allowing citizens who go abroad to mutilate their daughters to be punished upon return. sweden is the first and only eu country to have this type of extraterritorial legislation since 1999, which will hopefully now make it possible to reach out to the swedes who let their daughters "summer vacation abroad". another central point in the report, which has already been mentioned by several speakers, is the requirement that escape from torture be regarded as at least as serious as escape from political persecution. the united states and canada have already stopped the deportation of girls and young women who have sought asylum for fear of mutilation on several occasions. europe should not lag behind in this respect. it is high time to take decisive action now to save the two million girls worldwide who are at risk of having their genitals cut every year. we hope and trust that the commissioner will come back with concrete proposals which our ministers can then take up.
mr president, i would like to thank you. female genital mutilation is a terrible act that causes severe physical and psychological damage and lifelong suffering and is a tremendous violation. the mortality rate among those who undergo this is high. it is indeed a matter of strength to combat this unusual, this terrible act wherever it occurs. this is also a european problem and it is important to ensure that knowledge, research and documentation on fgm is strengthened in europe. we need to work together to find common strategies to eliminate this interference, which is not dictated by any religion. several colleagues here have highlighted the need to cooperate with religious leaders. women who are already mutilated need care and rehabilitation, and therefore the knowledge of midwives, social workers and teachers must be invested. theoretically, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic states is not further complicated. in my country it is prohibited, and that is why it is so obvious for the liberal group to support the proposals to make it prohibited everywhere. it would send a clear signal that genital mutilation is a crime at home and abroad and that such mutilation constitutes a violation of human rights.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. this own-initiative report is certainly not about a new problem, but about a problem which has recently been brought to the attention of the public. the scale of workplace bullying is quite large, according to the dublin foundation. eight per cent of eu citizens, some 12 million inhabitants, have felt that they have been bullied at work in the last 12 months. what is the reason for this and are there any links to be clarified? yes, we know, for example, that unsafe working conditions play a role. we also know that those who are bullied are more prone to stress than others. we know that those with high-stress jobs are also more vulnerable. it is a question of safety at work and of work organisation. what are the effects of bullying? of course, bullying has consequences for the individual, who feels worse, is absent from work more often, and is sick more often. the whole team, even the people who aren't being bullied themselves, are performing worse. bullying has consequences for companies in terms of lower productivity, lower profitability and worse working conditions within companies. i have been asked why the eu should be concerned with these issues and what does this have to do with the community? while bullying at work is a problem common to all member states, the attention paid to it varies greatly from one place to another. in recent years we have increasingly started to talk about more jobs and better workplaces, i.e. quality of working life. quality of working life is about health and safety and about work organisation, and then workplace bullying is a problem. the eu has long had legislation on health and safety at work. what do we need to do? we must first of all review the definition and, in doing so, seek a common definition. we need to get a much better statistical base. the dublin fund and eurostat have a role to play in this respect in the future. we must also work on the open method of coordination. the member states need to develop their legislation, their regulations, etc., and then best practice must prevail, i.e. looking at each other's solutions. the lisbon process also includes quality indicators. how does the legislation come in? should we say in advance that legislation is not needed in this area, since it is linked to an area where the eu is already legislating today, namely the area of health and safety? we are currently having a great debate on health and safety, which means that it is not only the physical but also the psychosocial working environment that matters, and that will become increasingly important in the future changing world of work. women are particularly affected by atypical work, precarious working conditions, etc. the legislative issue is raised in two points in the report, although it does not say that we will definitely have legislation or how such legislation would be designed. the commission is invited to take account of the problem of bullying at work in its communications on a community strategy on health and safety at work and on improving the quality of work and social policy, and in its green paper on corporate social responsibility, and to consider the need for legislative initiatives. it is possible, of course, that the commission will say that we do not need and should not have such legislation. in that case we shall have to make an analysis, but i find it rather incomprehensible to rule out the possibility of legislation in advance. it is likely that the framework directive on the working environment also covers aspects of the psychosocial working environment, but we would like clarification on this point. if we get such clarification, there is no problem, but if not, for example, the scope of the framework directive must be extended to cover the 'new' essential area. in this context, it is also necessary to examine whether any type of regulation or legislative initiative is needed in relation to bullying in the workplace. let me take an example from my own country. we have a framework legislation that states that the employer has a responsibility to address bullying in the workplace when it occurs. the details of how this is to be done are not given, but it is clear that there is an employer's responsibility. paragraph 24 of the report calls on the commission to draw up a green paper on the situation of bullying in the workplace and to submit an action programme. this is probably the most important point in the whole report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. neither the time nor the mood is such as to incite any kind of argument - whether with the chairman of the committee or with other british members of this parliament - as to who is the biggest loser from acidification or measures to combat it. i would like to try to be more positive and thank the british members for having the courage to pass this directive and for the fact that we will be able to take a decision tomorrow. this decision means, to put it dramatically, that my region is being given life back and that the forestry, fisheries and biodiversity sectors are being given the opportunity to repair the damage done over decades and perhaps even a whole century. this is a good example of the benefits of concrete and solid european cooperation. through such cooperation we can bring about a change in my region that we could not have brought about on our own, namely a halt to acidification. while we cannot stop acidification completely, we can stop it and try to repair some of the damage it has caused. i look forward to the review that will be made, because i know that this is not enough. the acidification is ongoing, despite the decision we'll make tomorrow. i would like to thank the members and the commission for the work we have done together.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee and the committee for a well-balanced report. the increasing flows of refugees in recent years demonstrate the need for a common refugee policy within the eu, and also globally. the more or less panic-stricken reactions of the various member states to the desire of people to find a refuge, a new life in europe, have been very much at odds with the humanist values which the eu stands for. the tragedies at the eu's borders have been many. it has been about ships that have sunk, desperate refugees hiding in containers and refugees trying to swim to europe. on many occasions, madam president, i have felt saddened by several of the proposals from the member states and the commission which seem to have had the main purpose of stopping, impeding, forcing and expelling. those who have spoken of an eu that is developing into a fortress of europe are unfortunately not entirely wrong. madam president, i would like to thank you. in this context, this proposal for a directive is a step in the right direction. the rights of the individual are emphasized, and the repressive does not dominate. it is true that there is a need for common asylum rules within the eu, but there is also a need for a more generous margin of appreciation for individual member states. this is the space that the committee has guaranteed. the committee also strengthens the rights of the individual in accordance with the geneva convention. this concerns the status of children, the possibilities for holding refugees in detention, increased skills among those handling refugee cases and reasonable processing times. it is simply a matter of increasing the certainty of the law. madam president, i would like to thank you. i am, however, a little concerned about the future of the council's proceedings. we must safeguard the absolute requirement of the geneva convention that each refugee should be tried individually, as sarah ludford said. there are no safe countries, in my view. if we europeans are not to lose our reputation completely, we need a different refugee policy based on respect, openness and the rule of law. countries like nauru cannot be expected to take responsibility for people fleeing barbaric regimes like that in afghanistan. humanism and compassion are even more needed today, a week after the tragedy in the united states.
in writing. -{v) we are concerned that the concept of safe third countries and countries of origin is about to be introduced at community level. all states are potentially capable of committing human rights violations, and therefore no country can be systematically considered safe. an asylum seeker must have the right to a fair hearing, regardless of his country of origin. the report gives member states the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they wish to use lists of countries listed as safe or not. however, there is reason for concern about this development of the concept of safe country at community level. it is extremely important that we should emphasize together the principles of the geneva convention which require that everyone has the right to an individual examination of his case.
in writing. i voted in favour of this very welcome report, which seeks to defend the inviolability of the dignity of every human being, whatever his or her identity. it is a question of expressing the common fundamental values on which european cooperation must be based. female genital mutilation has irreversible consequences for the health of the victims and can even lead to death. whatever the degree of mutilation inflicted, it can only be defined as an act of violence which violates the fundamental rights of women and girls, the right to personal integrity, physical and psychological health, the right to sexuality and maternity. such violation and mutilation of the human being cannot be justified by respect for a religion such as islam, nor for any customs or initiation rites. religious freedom and female genital mutilation have nothing to do with each other. female genital mutilation is a crime against the dignity of women and children as guaranteed by several international conventions. the criminal laws of the member states regard this practice as a criminal offence and condemn it. it is also contrary to the principles laid down in the european charter of fundamental rights. it is therefore time to criminalise all forms of female genital mutilation in the member states of the union - whether the woman has voluntarily undergone it or not - and to criminalise those who aid, encourage, encourage or advise such practices.
in writing. -sv) we abstained in the vote on the report by mr jan andersson on harassment in employment law. our position in principle towards the european union is positive. european integration gives us the opportunity to solve cross-border problems, for example in the environment, trade, free movement between countries, human rights and conflict resolution. we also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the citizens concerned. that is why we are actively working to promote the idea of a european constitution in which the distribution of responsibilities is clear to all. it must be absolutely clear to all citizens that the eu should deal only with the issues it knows best, namely crossborder issues. of course, harassment in the workplace is a problem, and we must do everything possible, one way or another, to combat it. however, we do not believe that the european level is the best place to take action to remedy this. it is important for us that the eu focuses instead on areas of action where it can really do useful work. that cannot be the case here.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in my profession, i meet people with health problems caused by noise. however, both injuries and unpleasant noise experiences are very individual, which makes the noise issue difficult. for example, living near a shooting range with the type of noise it produces can be very unpleasant, even if the range is rarely used. low-frequency noise and its vibrations are very unpleasant to some people. i am convinced that we need more research and knowledge about the noise problem. one of the reasons why our common europe is so fascinating is the many differences that exist in our part of the world. changes in the european landscape environment and changes in nature are examples. rural areas vary from densely populated areas in central europe, such as the netherlands, to sparsely populated areas in northern europe, sweden and finland. we must take this into account when taking action on the noise problem. airplanes, cars and trains move between different countries and environments. it is therefore reasonable that they should meet common noise requirements, but industrial areas and airports are fixed installations and their surroundings change considerably. it is therefore important that we do not get stuck in a future noise legislation that equalises measures from a central european demographic perspective. the noise regulations must allow for flexibility. local and national authorities are better able to take environmental factors into account in the case of fixed noise sources. we must respect the principle of subsidiarity and develop noise control measures that can be applied throughout the eu without excessive local consequences.
madam president, i would like to thank you. support for the european union is declining in virtually every member state. in the candidate countries, enthusiasm for enlargement is waning. trust in the european institutions is low, and the distance between 'judgment in brussels' and 'us at home' can be felt very wide by the individual citizen. we are all painfully aware of this, and i am pleased to find such a great deal of self-criticism in the commission's white paper. the liberal group welcomes the white paper on governance in the eu. these changes are an important part of the major reform work we face in the coming years to make the eu more accessible, efficient and democratic. we are very positive about the approach in the white paper. it identifies the problems and points out where changes are needed. some of the overall proposals are in line with what the liberals have been pushing for years. we need to increase openness and transparency. the new rules adopted earlier this year under article 255 are a first step in this direction. decision-making processes need to be simplified and made clearer. the regions, including the local level, must be involved at an earlier stage in the decision-making process and we must find mechanisms to consult them regularly. after all, it is in the regions and municipalities that the majority of eu decisions are to be implemented. it is also very positive that the commission wants to work more on framework legislation and strengthen the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. however, the level of concretisation in the white paper is low. how exactly is this to be achieved? how can the individual citizen feel more involved in decision-making? and, most importantly, how will the commission deal with the change of attitude, the cultural revolution, which must take place within the commission for all reforms to become a reality? we know that many of kinnock's excellent reform proposals met with formidable resistance. bureaucracies the commission is a big bureaucracy change slowly. many are eager to see results. we can't afford to fail. the white paper is now on the table. i hope that many will feel compelled to respond and comment on part two. parliament will draw up a report. it was also very positive to hear that mr prodi proposed a joint interinstitutional working group to follow up on this. i hope that the commission, together with parliament, will also work actively to spread awareness of the white paper and not expect citizens to find it on the website by chance. thank you for this first part. we look forward to part two.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there is every reason to develop ideas on how europe should move forward, but we also need to know what to develop. it should not cover everything, but only those matters which cannot be better managed at national, local or individual level, such as the internal market, the single currency, external and internal security, borders, customs and certain environmental issues. so far, the proposals for democracy are not sufficiently concrete. we therefore need cross-institutional cooperation to move forward. we must base ourselves on a clear division of powers, where political responsibility can be claimed. the objectives need to be clarified and the initiatives adapted accordingly. the possibility of holding accountable is necessary in a democratic system based on the rule of law and it requires a common set of values with clear guidelines. an effective european democracy requires discussions across language and national boundaries and an adapted school and media. the proposed multi-level democracy can contribute to legitimacy and improved trust, but it must not degenerate into negotiating democracy or corporatism, which so often involve corruption. cooperation with civil society can make policy actions more effective, but the role of politicians must be clearly separated from that of civil society. we now hope that the commission will continue to follow the values of the proposal and ask four questions before each initiative. is the measure proportionate, i.e. legal, in relation to the problems to be solved? does the solution reflect european democracy? is the proposal in line with the eu's vision and basic principles? can responsibility be claimed? the more citizens are involved in european cooperation, the better. but do not think that legitimacy itself creates democracy, it is democracy that creates legitimacy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to refer to paragraph 15 of the pirker report. it states, among other things, that immigrants must respect the community of values laid down in the eu charter of fundamental rights and demonstrate a willingness to integrate. how is this to be interpreted? there is a wave of anti-islamism across europe today. muslims have been harassed in several eu countries. the most heated debate i have been able to follow is taking place in denmark. several politicians have made startling statements. mogens camre, a member of this assembly, has said that all the countries of the western world are being infiltrated by muslims, that some of them are speaking kindly to us while they are becoming enough in number to get rid of us - in danish get os fjernet - that is, to exterminate us. this is a prejudiced and irresponsible statement. my concern, mr president, before this house is: does the wording in paragraph 15 not risk giving further scope to this type of inflammatory statement? is europe's diversity not at risk of being lost? are we not in danger of encroaching on freedom of religion and freedom of speech? could not paragraph 15 be understood as: "adjust, period, or else take your pick and pack and go!" perhaps camre has the ability to answer this?
i want to thank you for that answer. in his reply, vitorino made no mention of the 16 afghans who have been put on trial for converting from islam to christianity. these people are threatened with the death penalty under islamic law. my question to vitorino is: in our fight against the death penalty, in our fight for religious freedom, has the european union acted in any way for these people who are actually threatened by the death penalty? what is the european union's attitude towards all the arab and muslim countries - almost all of them - where conversion from islam to christianity is punishable by death? whatever happened in the united states on september 11th, we must not tire of our work against the death penalty. my question is: what happened to these 16 vulnerable afghans?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs langenhagen, for her work on the report. i am speaking today because i believe that we need technological systems that bring environmental benefits. the pace of technological development is accelerating. personal computers and mobile phones have dramatically changed our working and everyday lives. we have also learned that technology is constantly changing and creating new tools, and that companies are constantly developing new products that can be used in many different areas of society. a european satellite navigation system could provide a major opportunity for the development of the transport sector, especially in the field of combined transport, where different modes of transport should interact smoothly. however, new technologies can also be used to make transport more efficient and environmentally friendly in the air, sea, road and rail transport sectors. i very much agree with the rapporteur that galileo will mean that europe can be part of the development and be at the forefront of a new technological industry. there is a space industry in several parts of europe today, including the northernmost part of sweden, and i think it is important that we use the infrastructure already built to keep the costs of this project down in the future. the major technological breakthroughs have usually followed development through publicly supported research, often with the aim of being used for military purposes. the costs and resources required to develop completely new technologies are often not available to private companies. this is particularly true of the galileo project, which is based on joint funding by the eu countries, but also requires the contribution of the private sector. the unique feature of galileo, unlike the gps system, is that it is developed for civilian purposes and not for military purposes. i believe that this is an absolute prerequisite for the european parliament to support the project.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is natural that the issue of the fight against terrorism should be given a certain prominence in ghent. the european union has acted with impressive unanimity and determination. we can look forward to a long-term struggle on several fronts, including political and legal, with the delicate balance in respect for the rule of law. in the long term, politically and economically, we may also be able to achieve a better legal order with a stronger un. it is gratifying that the united states has recognized the importance of the un and is paying its debts to the organization. perhaps the eu can also get the united states to ratify the protocol on the international criminal court. of course, we must also work in the long term to bring peace and democracy to the whole of the middle east. the enlargement will also be discussed in ghent. it is extremely important to the eldr group that each country be assessed separately, that the principle of differentiation be genuinely maintained. that is the message i would like to send to the presidency. finally, as regards the convention, i should like to thank the president-in-office for the clarifications. however, some concerns remain in this area. the convention is not a discussion club to talk a little in general about different options for the future of europe. the convention is not an alibi for the council, but a serious and democratic partner in this discussion. the convention, whatever its composition - and i hope that the candidate countries will have a strong role in this context - will include a large number of hardworking parliamentarians who must know that the work being done is taken very seriously.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when civilian airplanes carrying people on their way to meet others are turned into bombs against citizens of the world in the metropolis of new york, where people at the beginning of their working day in the service or the economy become innocent victims of fanaticism and diabolically well-organized terrorism that does not spare any means in its hatred of the open, civilized, pluralistic society in which we live, then we all understood how fragile our society is. at the same time, however, all democrats around the world recognized that this open society is worth defending and that we must fight injustice and terrorism together. president bush of the united states has therefore been credited with creating global freedom coalitions. the un, nato and the eu have acted vigorously in the common struggle. the common will of the european union must manifest the ideal of the open society. let us not panic and enact legislation that jeopardizes the rule of law! let us not allow the defence of human rights to be set in opposition to the fight against terrorism! do not let the mood of the lawsuit be used to close borders or increase prejudice between people! madam president-in-office, make sure that ghent is used to strengthen the eu's capacity to promote the open society! trade increases the links and understanding between the peoples of europe and the world. it is therefore a shame that some eu countries are now outside the single currency, which is one of our best tools for increasing cooperation. it is therefore also foolhardy of the belgian presidency to go on the anti-globalisation side by raising the tobin tax, which would directly counter economic recovery and increased trade. the best long-term contribution of europe to a more open, free and secure world is the tangible result of the reunification of western and eastern europe through enlargement. you will not only have to deal with an acute crisis and a growing threat, but you will also have to fulfil the most important and historic task of the european union! i wish you luck in ghent!
in writing. -{{v) we have some criticisms to make of certain parts of the report. in our view, it places far too much emphasis on measures to limit immigration, rather than on the positive and necessary aspects of increased immigration and the importation of labour. we would like to go further in several areas, to open up the union to increased imports of foreign labour. our position is particularly critical of paragraph 15, which states that 'migrants are obliged to respect the community of values - as defined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union - and to express their wish to integrate into the society of the member states'. we are not now demanding that the citizens of europe respect the common values mentioned in the report. the question is how this paragraph should be interpreted. europe is now being swept by a wave of anti-muslim sentiment. in sweden and in several other member states, muslims have been harassed. we have heard statements from politicians in several member states which strike us as astonishing. we are concerned that the wording of paragraph 15 will provide even more pretexts for intolerance and xenophobia. europe's diversity is at risk.
in writing. the idea of a political regulation of arms production and exports has our full support, but we reject the titley report for the following reasons. the report does not reflect the fundamental conflict between the interests of the arms industry and an ideal of a peaceful world order. it is contradictory to start a report on a code of conduct on arms exports with paragraph 1 (d), i.e. to declare that eu arms export policy must 'meet the needs and challenges of the european defence industry'. we are also opposed to the ambition that arms export policy should become a means of developing a common defence policy, as stated in paragraph 1 (e). we recognize that positive changes have been made and we support some of the individual formulations.
i think it is extremely serious that the council of ministers cannot answer the question whether persons who are neither suspected of crimes nor have committed crimes are registered in the eu's sis data system. this is about whether the sis can meet the most basic requirements of legal certainty. i interpret the council of ministers' reply as meaning that it is possible, and something that is not controlled, for a member state to choose to enter a person in the sis register without the person in question being suspected of a crime or convicted of a crime, but merely participating in a demonstration and identified by the police. in such cases, this is totally unacceptable and contrary to the normal practice of the law. perhaps you can confirm that if a state registers a person who has not committed a crime, that person will be in the sis and information about him will be available when he passes external border controls and when an internal schengen check is carried out?
i thank you very much for your reply, but i would still like to say that in all the important points made towards the end of your reply, you did not mention the family among the efforts you highlighted for the child's welfare. was that by chance? in paragraph 1 of the european parliament's resolution of 5 july 2001 on the eu's positions at the un general assembly's special session on children, we say the following: "the family is the basic unit of society and has the primary responsibility for the protection and upbringing of children". in other words, it says "the family" and not "the family in its various forms". what is your impression of the european parliament's position and how do you assess a mother and father who support their children in their education? why has the eu acted in a way that has actually changed the concept of the family?
that is your own judgment, mr president! you are also the vice-chairman for me and all the other members. i asked specific questions about the concept of family. even the last time i asked a question you chose to consider that i came with philosophical questions and explanations. i put specific questions to the belgian presidency. i ask that you, as a competent vice-president, show respect for all members, including the swedish christian democrats. i take it this is the last time you insult a member of the house in this way. philosophy and ethics are important issues for you too, mr. vice president.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues harbour and beysen, who in the committee responsible have worked in a meritorious way on and taken account of the views we expressed from the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on this matter. i am very pleased that the european parliament will now decide to support the commission's proposed strategy for creating an internal market for services. the need for this is great. for economic growth, for the promotion of enterprises, for employment and for consumers. an internal market for services is a long-missing element of a european growth policy. a policy which must also be complemented by measures to accelerate the process of liberalisation in sectors such as postal services, electricity, energy - something that cannot be said often enough. the commission's overall approach is good. the sectoral regulation of services, which has so far proved to be more difficult than helpful in creating an internal market, cannot be continued. 99% of european enterprises are smes. these employ 66% of the workforce and generate 55% of turnover. given the importance of these companies to europe's economy, it is essential that they can fully benefit from the internal market for services, a market which simply cannot function well without them. it is also important that the candidate countries be involved as soon as possible. the so-called expanded market for services must be well prepared. finally, if this work is to be successful, the commission must not be left alone. we have a great responsibility in parliament, but the member states also have a great responsibility to get involved in the process and to work at political, legislative and administrative level to remove obstacles to the exchange of services. without political will at all levels, this objective cannot be achieved.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission's initiative last year to play a leading role in the effort to stop the spread of hiv, malaria and tb was not a day too soon on the contrary. the international community should have taken the hiv epidemic more seriously long ago and generally made much greater efforts to curb the spread of malaria in particular through research and prevention. the lack of funds, especially in the field of research, has been a crying problem for a long time. we welcome the kind of action that bill gates has taken, but this kind of prevention cannot and must not depend on the efforts of individuals. it must be a matter for the public in the first place. mr president, i would like to thank you. the resolution we are discussing here is the parliament's response, somewhat late, to the commission's initiative last year. the resolution should be seen in the context of the work we are currently doing on next year's budget, where we propose, at least provisionally, substantial increases compared to the commission and council proposals. we believe that more capacity is needed within the commission to play a leading role in this area. more money is also needed for operational efforts. the situation with regard to the diseases we are discussing here today is extremely critical. more resources are needed, but also innovative and new forms of cooperation - not least between the public and private sectors. we must ensure that there is an incentive for increased research efforts. public-private partnerships are very important, but of course also partnerships with non-governmental organisations. i hope that the commission, and especially mr poul nielson, will see this resolution, as well as our efforts in other contexts to increase budgetary resources, as a strong incentive and support for the commission to play the leading role in the fight against hiv, malaria and tb, which i think we all feel is so essential.
in writing. it is not enough to say that we support the fight against international terrorism and that we believe it is good to take initiatives to freeze funds quickly if it is proved that they belong to or come from individuals or organisations responsible for terrorist acts. we recognize the need for rapid reaction, but at the same time, we believe it's important to think very carefully. the reason why we do not vote against the adoption of the initiative by parliament can be summed up in the following points: first of all, we believe that parliament should not be consulted on this particular matter, on which parliament has no influence. we think it is totally unacceptable for parliament to take a position on a regulation proposed by the commission on the basis of a document which was submitted in haste and which was criticised in coreper for its lack of coherence and consistency. we believe that the procedure by which parliament was asked to approve a rapid vote on the council's proposal will be used by the council to legitimize a regulation which has not been worked out in detail. the list added to the proposal in annex 1 is a list of organisations and individuals suspected of being directly or indirectly involved in terrorist acts. we consider it reprehensible to approve without any hesitation a list drawn up by the united states. the proposal does not provide any guidance on how and on the basis of what criteria individuals or organisations are added or removed from the list, nor does it specify which authorities are empowered to revise the list or on what grounds and principles. we find it regrettable that the proposal would undermine fundamental principles of the rule of law, principles which protect people accused of unfair or illegal treatment. it is clearly reprehensible that the traditional tripartite division of power into legislative, executive and judicial is being suspended in order to allow the eu to fulfil the us desire for rapid intervention. at the same time, it should be stressed that no violation of these principles can justify terrorist acts.
in writing. - (sv) i naturally share the total condemnation of terrorism which is the alleged reason for the adoption of this provision. but at the same time, the decision-making procedure which it has been the subject of and its very content are an insult to democracy and the rule of law, the protection of which is invoked as the objective of the proposal. the european parliament has been forced into a fast-track procedure without a report, without a debate, without access to the texts of laws in several of our languages, including swedish. no factual reasons were put forward to justify the circumvention of ordinary democratic decision-making procedures. since it is ultimately the member states which will have to implement this freezing of funds which may be returned to suspected terrorists, and since such a move, in any event, must necessarily involve national measures, there is no indication that there is a need to adopt a community provision or to speed up the implementation of the necessary measures. the commission has also been very careful to ensure that the council does not adopt a position which is not in line with the council's position. the provision does not contain any definition of the terms terrorism, terrorist or terrorist organisation. instead of formulating, as is normally done in a state governed by law, a general description of the criminal act and leaving it to the judicial apparatus to search for, arrest, charge and try those who correspond to this description laid down by law, the legislator, that is to say the commission which formulated this proposal, the council which takes the decision to adopt it, and the european parliament as an appeal body, anticipated the scope of application of the law and bypassed the need for a description of the criminal act by designating directly as 'guilty' 27 persons and organisations. this list is not based on any court case, but comes from the cia. it contains a number of names that are not further specified, names that are likely to be used by more than one person. furthermore, all the names on the list are easily identifiable as arab-muslim. the result is a false and unnecessary attempt to get useful measures taken in eu countries against the financial interests of terrorists which violates fundamental legal principles and can therefore be considered as a political aggression directed against the arab-muslim world. the european parliament has shown by adopting a number of amendments that it is possible to partially overcome the shortcomings i have just mentioned - but that they are far from being completely overcome. i think that parliament would have done better in this situation to have made its dissatisfaction clear by rejecting the commission's proposal in its entirety, so that the commission can present a new proposal which really strengthens the possibilities of fighting terrorism, which is based on the principles of the rule of law and which excludes any suspicion that the proposal could be directed only against the arab-muslim world. in this context, i voted against the proposal in the final vote, as did a number of my colleagues in the green group.
, färm, hedkvist petersen, hulthén, hans karlsson, theorin (pse),in writing. (sv) we swedish social democrats believe that it is vital that minors be protected from television advertising aimed at children , as this group is particularly susceptible and may have difficulty differentiating advertising from other programming. in sweden, tv advertising aimed at children under 12 is totally forbidden under the swedish radio and television act. according to directive 97/36/ec, advertising must be clearly identifiable as such. children under a certain age cannot appreciate the difference between advertising aimed at children and normal children’s programmes. slightly older children can appreciate the differences but not understand the purpose of the advertising. (research report by gunilla jarlbro of gothenburg university). we therefore believe that this must not be promoted, which is why we are voting against this part (paragraph 1 aa) of the report.
färm, hedkvist petersen, hans karlsson (pse),in writing. (sv) we swedish social democrats have abstained from voting in the vote on paragraph 2 and recital b. paragraph 2: it is good that the eurogroup is developing its cooperation on monetary issues. however, to transfer all cooperation on economic policy to the eurogroup would be wrong. we do not, therefore, support a possible amendment to the treaty in order to strengthen the eurogroup’s powers in the economic area, in any case not until we have more concrete proposals. against the background of eu enlargement, it is particularly important that member states outside the eurogroup have the opportunity to take part in economic cooperation. recital b:we do not wish to give our support to progressively binding legislation in the economic area, at least not until we know more about the specific implications.
mr president, i would like to thank you. political violence in colombia is a major obstacle to peace and development in the country. in no other country in the world are so many trade unionists murdered as in colombia. the colombian left has been and is subjected to an unprecedented campaign of terror. unfortunately, there is a clear risk that violence will escalate further ahead of the presidential election. the resolution criticises both the guerrillas and the paramilitaries for the violence. the guerrilla can rightly be criticised for kidnapping and violence against the indigenous population. it is clear, however, that the paramilitaries are responsible for most of the political violence. at least 90 percent of political assassinations are carried out by the paramilitary or the military. the paramilitaries would not be able to carry out their terror without the indirect support and acceptance of the regular police and military. therefore, the colombian government also has a direct responsibility to stop the paramilitary terror in the country. the eu's role must be to uphold human rights, support the peace process and oppose the military escalation of the conflict that plan colombia entails. the demilitarised zone must therefore also be allowed to continue as an important precondition for dialogue between the government and the farc guerrillas. colombia can only have peace and real democracy if human rights are respected. if it is not possible to work openly and legally for the colombian left, without its representatives being murdered, the guerrillas will not lay down their arms. it is therefore essential that the terror against the colombian left be recognized and combated. this is particularly true of the unión patriótica, to which the murdered member of parliament octavo sarmiento belonged. the union patriot has had at least 4,000 of its members shot dead by the paramilitaries. the criticism of this could be expressed even more clearly in the resolution we are about to adopt. the united left nevertheless considers the text of the resolution to be good and it is of great importance that we continue to follow developments in colombia closely and react to them.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. for over a decade, a whole world of citizens, politicians and journalists have been engaged and appalled by the plight of aung san suu kyi. despite the enormous support she enjoys among the burmese people and the crushing victory she and her party, the national league for democracy (nld), won in 1990, she has not been able to formally relinquish her leadership. she has been held in isolation for several periods, and now she has been under house arrest for a year. the nobel peace prize and our own sakharov prize have brought her and her courageous struggle to the attention of the world, but it does not seem to have moved the burmese junta. the human rights situation in burma is also alarming. representatives of political parties are isolated, thousands of people are imprisoned for political reasons, dissidents are persecuted and religious and ethnic minorities are harassed. forced labor and torture are common. according to amnesty, there are some 2,000 political prisoners, including journalists and several elected parliamentarians. both the eu troika and un observers now confirm that there are some signs of change. several prisoners have been released, the attitude towards the nld has softened and several party offices have been opened. from a total refusal to dialogue, there has now been dialogue, and perhaps a process of reconciliation is under way. that would be very welcome in a country that has been ruled for so many years by one of the world's most ruthless military junta. it may be that the window of opportunity has now been opened. however, pending further signs and more certain indications that the junta is genuinely willing to enter into dialogue and accept the nld's demands, the eu should not abandon its common line. when the council meets at the end of this month to discuss burma, it is important to keep the sanctions in place for the time being and to keep the pressure on to continue the dialogue, to make real progress towards democracy, to respect human rights and, not least, to release aung san suu kyi and allow her to take her place as the elected leader of the burmese people.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am the rapporteur for the matter of macedonia which is on the agenda for tomorrow. however, the commission has just informed us that this case should be withdrawn. as rapporteur, and also on behalf of the pse group, i propose that we remove this matter from tomorrow's agenda, in accordance with rule 144. the reason for this is that we have received information that the commission wants to provide more money in aid to macedonia and wants to extend the period of aid. i therefore propose that we withdraw the matter from this partsession and instead take it up at the november part-session. we therefore refer the matter back to the committee on budgets and to the committees which are to deliver opinions on this matter, namely the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on industry.
mr president, i would like to thank you. ladies and gentlemen, we have already dealt with a very excellent report by mr korhola a few months ago on public access to environmental information. this time it is about public participation in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment. the common feature of these reports is that the commission's proposal is based on the so-called aarhus convention. article 8 of the convention provides that each country shall endeavour to promote the effective participation of the public in the work of public authorities on such rules at a time when it is still possible to influence decisions. article 9 of the convention requires the member states - and i would like to stress this - to provide the public concerned with the possibility, within the framework of their national legislation, of having the validity of decisions of public authorities reviewed by the courts. as a liberal, i am of the opinion that the decisions taken and the proposals drawn up by the public authorities should be made available to all those who are interested and concerned to the greatest possible extent. anything else would be unthinkable in a democracy.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. this is the end of 12 years of dealing with the so-called ucits directives! last february, we had our first treatment. in july, a year and a half later, the common position was finally adopted, and now it is our turn. the first proposal concerns, as you know, the fund company itself and the investments that may be made. the second updates and extends the provisions on the actual management of the funds. both proposals received broad support in parliament at first reading. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. of these, 30 were adopted in whole or in part by the council. the council has accepted in full or in part 20 of the 24 amendments tabled by parliament on ucits-1. the council also made some of its own amendments. the main one concerns otc derivatives, which the commission was opposed to from the outset. the commission also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union. the council followed suit. in several cases, the council took an even more cautious stance than parliament on otc derivatives, considering that investments in otc must meet stricter quality requirements. as regards the committee system, the common position does contain provisions on committee procedure in the field of financial services. i would stress, however, that there is no obvious link with the proposals put forward by the lamfalussy group. a 1985 directive set up the so-called contact committee to advise the commission. the original commission proposal under discussion today proposes to extend the committee's powers. the commission proposes that the committee be given new powers. parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. similarly, both the commission and the council accepted parliament's demand for limitation of delegation to the committee. i believe that parliament has thereby accepted the use of the committee system and has also successfully changed the scope of its powers. i therefore see no reason to bring this matter up again at this time. there is, however, an amendment tabled by mr goebbels, mr jonckheer and mr herzog. if it were to be accepted, i fear we would be faced with a settlement which we do not know where it might end. the lamfalussy settlement risks being delayed and stopping the ucits directives. no one can wish this! i hope goebbels shares my opinion. in ucits ii, the council has largely taken over parliament's comments at first reading. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the most controversial issue concerned the capital requirements for management companies. the council's final compromise is in principle in line with parliament's position. the committee also calls for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the quality of foodstuffs. there are two reasons for that: firstly, the council's compromise is very fragile, and it is in no one's interest to open pandora's box by introducing detailed, technical or politically sensitive amendments. a compromise would delay this review, which is already needed, and it might also stop the legislation. secondly, there is a good balance between investor protection and freedom of investment in the two common positions. as i said, most of the amendments we proposed last time have been introduced. there are, however, some unresolved issues. these, in my view, can be solved more easily in a broader context. the committee was kind enough to follow my recommendations. therefore, there is only one proposed amendment to ucits-1 with guidelines for a future review. it is also proposed that existing funds should not have to comply with the new legislation during a transitional period, the so-called grandfather clause. a proposal to amend ucits-2 is presented to coordinate the periods for the review of capital requirements and the general review. after the committee's consideration, i have had contacts with the council, as recently as a few hours ago, and with the commission. i therefore propose, together with mr goebbels, a new amendment which reduces the transitional period. this will enable the ucits directives to be implemented in the member states by 2005, the year in which the financial action plan is to be implemented. this is to avoid compromise. the work on the renewal of the regulatory framework for funds has been going on for 12 years and is a clear example of the need to reform decision-making in this area. if europe is to have a chance in competition with, say, the us economy, changes of a more technical nature must be made much easier and faster. there is now a good balance between a well-functioning market and reasonably secure consumer protection. parliament has been pushy and has shown a capacity to act quickly and to compromise when it really counts. let us continue on the path we have taken! thoughtful, fast and effective legislation - that's what europe needs! i would like to conclude by thanking all those involved: the commissioner, his skilled and kind staff, the colleagues who have all really stood by us during this difficult period. i hope that tomorrow we can put an end to 12 years of work for the benefit of europe's consumers and investors.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. i recommend that the urgency procedure be applied to this document, as it would also make it easier for china to participate in the forthcoming meeting in doha.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. the same argument for urgency as in the previous case applies in this case, namely that taiwan could also participate in the doha meeting.
the committee on women's rights has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you. gender equality is a prerequisite for economic growth. 25 million fewer women than men participate in the european labour market. this is a huge untapped resource which must be tapped to achieve the lisbon employment targets and to ensure economic growth. at the same time, the birth rate is falling dramatically. demographers predict that europe's workforce will be made up of significantly fewer people in the future. thus, women will have to work more and have more children. how are we gonna make this equation work? a basic prerequisite is a gender perspective in all four pillars of the employment guidelines, and i am therefore very pleased that barbara weiler has been so responsive to the proposals put forward by the committee on women's rights and gender equality. perhaps most importantly, ensuring that european women and men can reconcile work with children and family. member states must provide childcare and offer parental leave. european women should not be forced to choose between work and family. the commission's focus on better jobs is very encouraging. the precondition for more women in the workforce is precisely better jobs and better working conditions for women. uncertain, low-paid, low-skilled jobs, where women are overrepresented today, are not attractive. quality, which is the constant theme of the 2000 guidelines, must also apply to women's work. overcoming gender discrimination in employment and social security systems is a huge challenge. discrimination against women in the labour market is not only unproductive, it also destroys opportunities for individual women, for women as a group and for society as a whole. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the integration of women into the labour market. gender equality is an investment.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank barbara weiler for a very good report. the commission reports which have been the basis of this debate assume that there will be no major changes this year, as a major evaluation of the first five-year period will be carried out in the coming year. we therefore do not want to start making changes now. this is of course also the case in the present report, which is about what we have discussed in previous years. i think the rapporteur adds important aspects: quality of work, education, vocational training, lifelong learning, gender equality, etc. the committee on economic and monetary affairs tabled a number of amendments to the report, some of which were adopted and incorporated into the report. i am concerned about these amendments because some of them put such a strong emphasis on price stability policy, budgetary restraint policy and the like. i'm concerned because we're entering an economy that's not as strong anymore. the luxembourg process has been very much focused on improving the supply of labour, but this requires that there are jobs, and that the economic policies pursued create jobs and counteract the tendency towards economic recession. i therefore believe that the amendments in question, as they stand, are contrary to a european employment strategy. i would also like to say a few words about the future. a number of evaluations are underway. i have had contact with people working on some of the research projects under way and i think that one of the things that will be highlighted is the lack of implementation of the policy in the member states. there is a relatively broad consensus among those who pursue labour market policies in the member states, but despite this, these policies are not implemented in the member states themselves. the labour market administrations have little to do with the process itself. they're making their own policies. the parliaments have no influence at all, but they are the ones who are supposed to finance the national measures we are calling for. it is therefore extremely important that more attention be paid to the parliaments in particular, but also to the whole political process in the member states, if the result is to be effective. i think that will be the main task of the next evaluation. it's not enough to just emphasize indicators and stuff. the bodies that raise funds and then administer the measures must also play an active role in the process.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for an excellent report. looking back on the relatively short time we have been working on employment policy in the eu, we must say that it has been relatively successful. the employment rate has increased, the unemployment rate has fallen, and that is a success. however, now that the economic situation is deteriorating, the moment of truth has come, and i believe that the need for a coordinated employment policy is even greater than before. although the situation is positive, we still see shortcomings. one shortcoming is the proportion of women in the labour market. not only are women much less than men, but women are over-represented in atypical and precarious jobs, even in countries with very high female employment rates. there are also shortcomings, which have been noted in recent years, in the older workforce. it is a shame that so little of the population between the ages of 55 and 65 is working. in this area, a whole range of measures are needed in the field of working environment, skills development, etc. if we are to raise these figures. there are also very large regional differences, and for groups such as immigrants and the disabled, employment levels are still very low. i welcome the discussion on quality of work, that in addition to creating more jobs, we should also improve the quality of work. however, a wide range of measures is needed in this area. this is of course the case with the working environment, not least the new problems of stress, exclusion, burnout and the like, but it is also the case with lifelong learning. i believe that this is perhaps the most central issue for us to have economic growth and create more jobs in the future, and that is why i support this general right. i would like to see an agreement, a framework agreement, at european level, where the social partners agree on this right. i do not know if that is possible, otherwise the commission will have to act, but that would be the best solution. this right can then be adapted to the development of skills at national level in different sectors. finally, a view on the open method of coordination. the open method of coordination exists alongside legislation in the field of labour law and the working environment. the open method of coordination is good, but it lacks democratic control and transparency. we must resolve the european parliament's influence in this process. its importance has been growing for a long time, it has worked relatively well, but democratic control is lacking.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. like many others, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr costa neves. we've been working really well together. as the 'shadow rapporteur' of the socialist group, i have always been greeted with a very constructive attitude, and i am grateful for that. at this stage almost all the specific proposals from parliament have been discussed, and i shall therefore deal with a few more fundamental points. the budget is the ultimate expression of democracy and social progress. it is through the budget that we determine that our public institution needs to come in with tax money to somehow impact society, and when it comes to european cross-border issues, it is the eu budget. there is a constant struggle between the ambition to achieve important things and the need to respect budgetary discipline and to ensure that taxpayers really get their money's worth. in the eu, this balancing exercise is unusually complex in that it has to be carried out between two budgetary authorities and within each authority. in the case of the council, it must even be carried out within each of the 15 governments. unfortunately, the problem often becomes that one side of the council, the agriculture ministers and the foreign ministers, pledges a lot of money for agriculture, for example, bse and foot-and-mouth disease, for the conversion of poor regions, for fishing fleets, for the balkans, for afghan refugees, etc., while the other side, the finance ministers, says no to increased spending. the problem is not helped by the fact that those who promise aid are less likely to ensure that the commission, which is to implement all these measures, has the resources necessary to make the promises come true. commitments are often large, but implementation rates are low and funding is inadequate. despite this criticism, i believe that the taxpayers are essentially getting their money's worth. i am a member of parliament for sweden, the most eu-sceptic country in the union, and at the same time the country where the individual taxpayer contributes the most to the eu. this situation makes it not always easy to convince the public that the money is actually being well spent. the myth of the eu as a hopeless colossus is so strong that i am hardly believed at home when i tell you that even for sweden the net cost of the eu is only 1 per cent of the state budget, that the budget in real terms is not increasing and that implementation means that the swedish treasury gets back a large part of its contribution every year. in fact, one tenth of the total budget is paid back to the member states. i think, as i said, we are getting our money's worth, but there are still a lot of shortcomings. we must do a fair bit more in the future to convince the citizens that the funds are being well used. firstly, i think we need to simplify the budgetary procedure itself and make it more transparent. the new financial regulation and the activity-based budgeting should contribute to this. secondly, we must speed up internal reform. we have now put some services into reserve, but the aim is not to slow down but to push forward the reform. i am also convinced that, as commissioner schreyer mentioned in his speech, we will need to increase the flexibility of the budget and increase our ability to react to new developments. to achieve this, i also believe that a new spirit of cooperation between the two arms of the budgetary authority is needed. perhaps the most visible of these shortcomings is in category 4, external expenditure, where the council has added new expenditure year after year: aid to kosovo, aid to serbia, new fisheries agreements, etc. this year we have had a wide-ranging discussion on aid to refugees, the global health fund, other measures to combat aids and so on. in both 2000 and 2001, we solved this problem with the flexibility instrument, which brought us 200 million new jobs per year. the problem this year is that the programmes for kosovo and serbia which forced this flexibility instrument are still to be implemented at a high level, but without us being able to use the 200 million from the flexibility instrument this year. the council nevertheless wants to prevent us from using the funds that are not needed in the fisheries agreements, and i do not understand that. why can't we use them when we actually have high costs for the programs we have agreed on? this is not gonna hold! with this policy the council is forcing us to do something i would like to avoid, namely to say no to some of the large expenditure for the balkans, even though we are of course protecting the most sensitive areas: serbia and kosovo. let us have an open and trusting dialogue on this matter! we understand the council's priorities on the balkans and aids, etc., but we also ask for some understanding that we cannot prioritize all our heart issues. we want to save the balkans! let's get to the negotiating table!
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me begin by thanking carlos costa neves for his very good work on next year's budget. i am pleased to note that for the first time in several years there has been no serious talk of revising the ceiling. this is a sign for me of a rapporteur who really chooses to respect and apply the budgetary plans as a ceiling on expenditure and not as a spending target. i think this bodes well for future negotiations. however, there is reason to be wary of an overly expansive budget, particularly for category 3 and 4. the limited margin in these two categories is a cause for concern, especially as we see in the wake of the terrorist attacks of 11 september an increasing need for humanitarian assistance support to afghanistan, and for action in the area of justice and home affairs. the european union is already costly to the taxpayer. i think it is obvious that we must make sure that it does not become even more expensive. i take it for granted that at this stage parliament is creating room for negotiation with the council. however, there is reason to call for a joint austerity measure before the second reading, both from the council and parliament, in order to be able to deal with the situation created by the terrorist attacks in the united states from a purely budgetary point of view. let me conclude by briefly summarizing the buitenweg report. the rapporteur has made progress in the preparations for enlargement in 2004. this is good, and there is reason to thank her for it. i must say, however, that there is still a great deal to be done to prepare and adapt administration and management for enlargement, which is only two years away.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection warmly supports the council's decision to grant a community guarantee to the european investment bank to cover losses in connection with the lending of funds to environmental projects in the russian part of the baltic sea basin. we are deeply concerned about the environmental situation in this area, which is in the immediate vicinity of the european union. we believe that environmental investments in this area are urgent and in some cases even urgent. we note that the european investment bank has already started negotiations on participation in projects for the treatment of waste water from st petersburg and kaliningrad. it is important that the problems in these areas can be solved as soon as possible. it is also worth pointing out that environmental investment in this area can be more effective than many investments within the community, and that greater positive impacts on the health and environment of citizens of the european union can be achieved. we in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection can therefore wholeheartedly support the proposal that has been put forward.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur and express my support for the report by mrs seppänen. in some parts of our neighbourhood, environmental problems are indeed alarming, not least in the waters of the baltic sea. of course, eu countries suffer from these problems as much as large parts of russia, poland, kaliningrad, etc. in order to have clean water in the baltic sea, it is absolutely necessary that we cooperate across borders. i myself live in a municipality on the baltic sea, norrköping, where one of the biggest problems in terms of water quality is that we still get so much polluted emissions from the candidate countries to the union and from russia. it is also a very big problem for the member states of the union. we know, for example, that there are still discharges of contaminated waste water from 3-4 million people in the st petersburg region, and the situation around kaliningrad is about the same. such conditions affect all of us. to develop this region and, not least in terms of the environment, to tackle the major problems, we have created the 'northern dimension', which covers a very large area from iceland in the west to russia in the east. it is a matter of the highest priority to restore the balance in the baltic sea. it is urgent, and i am therefore pleased that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also expressed its wishes. i am also concerned, as a member of the committee on budgets, to present the economic aspects of this proposal, the committee on budgets would like to raise a warning finger. the guarantee reserve to cover any credit losses is seriously depleted, both this year and next. the only reason why we have room for this loan to russia is that we are not able to meet our other commitments. we have had to postpone other promised projects in the future, otherwise we would not have been able to make this loan within the framework set. if we are not to let our promises go unfulfilled in the future, and if we are not to give up on our new ambitions, the council and the commission must therefore review the ceiling on the guarantee reserve relatively soon. the situation is a little reminiscent of the discussion we had in the budget debate earlier, namely that the council is happy to make promises but then does not arrange the financing in a satisfactory way. i would therefore like to ask commissioner solbes mira what the commission's plans are for proposing the future of the guarantee reserve. i assume the commissioner will agree that the ceiling is quite stretched.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank mr hautala for a job well done. if it had been up to her alone, the result would have been even better, but we must be able to accept compromises, and these are important steps that are now being taken to strengthen gender equality in europe. the right to equal treatment in the workplace is a fundamental right and should be taken for granted. unfortunately, that is not the case. it's about human dignity and not being harassed, and that's something that everyone should agree with. we know, however, that many women in europe today are subjected to sexual harassment on a daily basis. a real change in attitudes is needed, but also strong and clear legislation if we are to create equal opportunities in working life. these are values that also lead to large gender pay gaps. i think it is important to say, however, that equal opportunities for men and women is not just a women's issue. it is a question that affects all of us, regardless of our sex. there is a need for rights that enable both mothers and fathers to reconcile their professional and family lives. maternity leave and paternity leave must of course be equalised. in my own experience, equality must begin at home. sometimes i think that the committee on women's rights and gender equality does not include us men sufficiently in its views on gender equality. i think that is a pity and it risks delaying more concrete work on gender equality within the european union. i would like to conclude by saying that i am not satisfied with amendment no 7. i do not think that the wording goes far enough. every mother and father must have the right to return to their own work after the holiday. i emphasize my own work, the wording 'equivalent work' is not enough. we risk that less responsible employers will take advantage of this opportunity to reduce the working conditions for parental leave. unfortunately, there are many such examples in my own country. i would therefore have liked a clearer wording. mr president, allow me 10 seconds more - given that astrid lulling got two minutes - and let me tell her that my marriage would never have survived if my wife and i had not shared parental leave equally. given that lulling was so clear, we all understand that lulling will of course support amendment no 17, for which i am very grateful. thank you so much!
mr president, i would like to thank you. what if men in europe earned 75 percent of women's wages? what if every second man was sexually harassed? what if europe's men were overrepresented in precarious, low-skilled part-time jobs and were fired when they told their employers they were going to have children? what if only 20% of the members of the european parliament were men? the view is lifting. now, however, it is the women, not the men, who are discriminated against in this way. "a new way of thinking is needed to solve the problems created by the old way of thinking", said albert einstein. i would like to congratulate hautala for working for a new way of solving problems with the eu's outdated equal treatment directive. the proposal we are voting on tomorrow lays the foundations for effective and clear legislation in the member states to protect women and men from gender discrimination in the world of work. countries must take active action to promote gender equality in practice. perhaps most importantly, hautala's demands that public and private employers in europe must systematically and systematically prevent gender discrimination, harassment and abusive treatment. it is no longer enough to react after employees have complained. employers are encouraged to draw up annual gender equality plans containing statistics on the ratio of women to men at different levels, the pay gap and proposals for measures to address it. employers should be responsible for ensuring that their employees are not harassed, that they have equal pay for work of equal value, career opportunities and, not least, a balance between work and family life. i assume the council is prepared to accept our proposals. only then will we have an instrument to eliminate the widespread discrimination against women in the world of work.
in writing. -{{v) we regard the weiler report in a generally positive light. we particularly appreciate the emphasis on quality of work. however, we find several of the amendments proposed by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy to be critical, since they contain ideological and circumventing formulations on the market economy and its management. we believe that this is an economic policy which runs counter to the european employment strategy, particularly during periods when the economy and labour demand are not in an expansion phase. since these amendments were adopted by the house, we chose to abstain in the final vote.
mr president, i would like to thank you. just as we in parliament are changing our working methods and the commission is changing its own through its white paper, so, of course, must the council change its own, both in the light of enlargement and because these working methods, as so many point out, are not working so well today. poos has a long and rich history of how the council works. i hope the council will take up his views. i assume that this question will be raised at the convention and that, as verhofstadt said this morning, there will be no taboos. we have no reason, of course, as liberals to have any opinion on the precise form the council should take, since it is not our job to regulate this. there are some issues, however, that we feel we can engage in. transparency is one such issue. we believe that transparency in the work of the eu is important for all institutions. this is a key to regaining citizens' confidence in the european project. today the council sits behind closed doors and passes laws for millions and millions of europeans. this is not acceptable. everyone is talking about it, and everyone is criticizing it. small, small reforms are being made, but they are not enough. the legislation must be made public. a separate department within the council must be set up where ministers meet in full openness and publicity to pass laws. there must also be proper protocols afterwards. the members of this legislative council must, of course, be politicians, not officials, with clear mandates from their respective governments. another issue that concerns us a little bit, and which poos also raised, is all the 'mini-meetings' that are being hoaxed up and are becoming very important. a lot of decisions are made in these meetings with a little bit of dubious status. we hope that they will be toned down and instead turned into working meetings. there is in the council, not so much in the present presidency but in many others, not least in sweden, a growing tendency towards intergovernmentalism and a desire to strengthen the council at the expense of parliament and the commission. we are very concerned about this development, because increased intergovernmentalism and more decisions taken behind closed doors will hardly lead to a more democratic europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. citizens have the right to know how their government representatives have acted and voted in the council. it is highly unacceptable that legislation is being passed in a democracy behind closed doors on behalf of 380 million people and this without transparency! the main position of the european parliament's report on the reform of the council is therefore contained in paragraph 26 on the need for transparency. it states that the european parliament requires that both deliberations and votes be public when the council acts as legislator, and in particular that public debates be held at the beginning and at the end of all legislative procedures, as provided for in article 8 of the council's rules of procedure, and that article 9 (1) of the council's rules of procedure be applied. the report also mentions the publication of the results of votes and explanations of votes on legislative texts. it is through this future openness that the european union will be democratized. this will lead to greater electoral pressure and increased national parliamentary control of the council. it's time! this in turn brings with it growing demands for the concentration of eu tasks and a need to delimit the union's decision-making powers. in other words, the report we are adopting today has long-term implications. i believe, mr president, that we are thus much closer to the objective formulated by the former president of the commission, jacques santer, in 1995: do less, but do it better.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in doha, the eu must give up its colour. on which side does the eu really stand in the global north-south conflict? it looks pretty bad. despite the outcry from india and malaysia, the least developed countries, the g77 and china, and a host of environmental and solidarity movements, the eu and the us are going to try to push through the wto's free trade doctrine, not just for traditional trade, but for virtually all economic life. the eu's main objective is to open up developing countries' markets to eu companies, commissioner lamy said in a statement earlier today. it is also clear that the eu is on a collision course with the developing countries in the field of trips and gats. in this global struggle, which is more crucial than the fight against terrorism, some so-called progressives believe that the eu could be a tool against neoliberal globalisation. the eu must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, but it must be able to play a role in the peace process. the 'naked interest policy' is then put forward, i.e. the policy which places the eu alongside the united states against the majority of the world's poorer countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. international trade is of central importance in creating the conditions for growth and development throughout our world. the rules of this trade determine whether growth and development will be shared by all mankind or will remain with the industrialized world. the désir report is an excellent instrument for achieving more global justice in world trade. the developing countries must be given the same opportunities as the industrialized countries to participate in the joint work of the wto. for me, as a social democrat, global justice is an end in itself. the terrorist attacks in the united states also highlight the need to reduce the basis for hatred and fanaticism. less injustice means more security for all of us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. democracy can be deepened by the establishment of a parliamentary assembly in the wto. social dumping must be prevented and workers' rights respected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. we must stop dumping our surplus food in developing countries and instead give farmers there a chance to develop their production and livelihood opportunities. that way, we can make our contribution to a more just and secure world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr lamassoure for his hard work. i would like to ask the commissioner responsible for enlargement, mr verheugen, the following question: is it possible for turkey to become a member of the european union with the continued turkish occupation of northern cyprus, with the continued influx of turks from anatolia to northern cyprus and with the documented destruction of the historical heritage in the form of monasteries, churches and cultural buildings that has taken place in this part of the island? if in the future it becomes possible for a country like turkey to continue to occupy part of another future eu country, cyprus, and still become a member, what has happened to the democracy and the idea of reconciliation which are the very basis of values and the very soul of european cooperation? if so, where has our credibility in the peace process gone? i also believe that turkey needs to be as ambitious as germany in dealing with the dark chapters of the 20th century. turkey can no longer deny the armenian genocide of one and a half million christians. it cannot be denied that christian assyrians, chaldeans, and syrians were also subjected to genocide, with hundreds of thousands of people being murdered after a 1914 fatwa of holy war against christians by the supreme muslim leader.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you. the accession of the people's republic of china to the wto is undoubtedly one of the major experiments and risk projects of our time. the people's republic of china, still a country formally ruled by a communist party, is now to join what might be called the bastion of the free market economy, the wto. if the commission is to be believed, this is a very big victory from the eu's point of view. it is said that this is a one-way process of market liberalisation. the eu, it is argued, will gain a great deal from china's accession to the wto in terms of the possibility of asserting its rights without any major change in its own commitments vis-à-vis china. it is indeed a fairly straightforward process as described in the commission proposal. china will have to adapt. the eu does not have to do much. certain quantitative restrictions concerning china are to be abolished. this is relatively small, however. if the commission's description in paragraph 13 is to be believed, wto accession is good for the chinese economy. i have a few questions about that. the commission is clearly the guardian of the eu's interests, but the question is whether we have not passed the point in the age of globalisation where trade policy can be compared to football matches, where it is a matter of winning and where the other side is not taken into account. i therefore find it quite remarkable that the commission in its proposal does not even suggest that this could still cause problems for the other party, namely the people's republic of china. i shall briefly mention some facts which suggest that there may be some problems for this large but still underdeveloped country. in china, there is criticism. the last time i visited china as president of the delegation of the european parliament to china, i was able to meet, on the sidelines of that visit, the authors of books which are very critical of china's accession to the wto. both books are published by legal publishers and of course in chinese. one of the books is called collision globalisation and china's reality choice. the author, an economist at beijing aeronautical university, argues that china will lose out to a system dominated by international corporations. his sympathies, he says, lie with the lower classes of society and he believes that chinese companies will be swallowed up by the international giants. this will affect the poor groups in china. his main argument is that china is not ripe for wto membership. china's economy is not strong enough and it will be the poorest people who will pay through unemployment and social insecurity. this book got some attention in china when it came out last year. it was notified in the internal gazette of the ministry of commerce. it got a lot of positive reviews. the second book, china in the shadow of globalisation, warns that wto membership could lead to a five-way split in china. this is one of the things that the chinese leaders fear the most. the chaos that could follow wto accession could lead to the dismemberment of the country, which strikes a chord in chinese self-image. even though china is not a democracy and - to put it mildly - does not have full freedom of speech, and even though the chinese government is in favor of wto accession, this type of books are still allowed to be published. it means there is a concern a strong concern in chinese society. there is also a reasonable concern within the ruling party about the consequences. all you have to do is go online. there are many websites: china online, south china morning post and so on. there is a wealth of information on what various observers, including outside china, think could happen as a result of wto membership. for example, china online reported in august this year that it estimates that 18 percent of the total number of employees in the state sector are redundant. they will be even more superfluous through wto accession, it is said. unemployment in urban areas is already estimated at over 15 percent. this report by china online further claims that unemployment will further increase in the context of wto accession. the prospects for new jobs are very slim, as those being laid off are often the older, unskilled workforce. according to china online, 30 percent of the agricultural workforce is redundant, which means that 120 million farmers will have to look for work in the cities. agriculture was one of china's most important negotiating points. china made some concessions. however, many observers still believe that opening up china to imports of agricultural products and foodstuffs from the united states, for example, will lead to enormous changes in rural areas and have enormous consequences. in china, nine hundred million people are employed in agriculture. the chinese government itself, not exaggerating the difficulties, estimates that 9.7 million farmers will lose their jobs because of cheaper grain imports in the seven years following wto accession. i could go on and on citing and referring to various sources which show the difficulties facing china, but i think these examples are sufficient. the purpose of the report was to emphasize once again that i find it strange that the commission is submitting to the council and parliament a document in which not a single word is said to suggest that wto accession could lead to difficulties in the world's most populous country. this is a strange information policy, i think. china's accession to the wto could of course lead to problems for us too if the stability of china is seriously disturbed. what conclusions do i draw? i do not conclude that we should say no. even if china is not a democracy in our sense, i think it is unreasonable for us to try to take on the responsibility of the chinese government and say that what the chinese government has judged to be right would in fact be wrong. i think, however, that we should be aware that we are playing a very risky game. it is a great demand that european companies, now that they are entering china with the freedom that wto membership gives them, take responsibility and not abuse the opportunities they are given. despite these serious criticisms and these serious concerns, i naturally recommend that we vote 'yes'. i have only a short time left to speak on taiwan. it was deliberate, because taiwan is in a very different situation. taiwan is a developed modern democracy, a developed modern market economy industrial state, the world's tenth largest trading power. i see no real problems with taiwan's accession to the wto. this is a completely different problem, which cannot be compared. taiwan is granted a side agreement with china and becomes a member the day after china's accession. i have no comment other than that we should of course say yes.
in writing. -{sv) we voted against the committee on budgets' proposal to increase agricultural expenditure in category 1. we do not think it is right that about half of the total budget of the union is used to subsidize the production and export of agricultural products. the current agricultural policy is not only costly for the union. it also contributes to higher consumer prices. the agricultural sector is also well protected from foreign import competition. this has the effect of distorting competition and destabilising the world economy. the eu's common agricultural policy is a problem for developing countries. agriculture is indeed a field in which these countries are competitive with industrialized producers. the eu's common agricultural policy is creating serious obstacles here, in particular by subsidising this agriculture and subsidising it against import competition. the fact that the union grants aid to tobacco cultivation also deserves attention. these subsidies for tobacco cultivation must be abolished as soon as possible. the eu budget and activity should rather be used to tackle crossborder problems that member states cannot solve on their own. the common agricultural policy is fundamentally opposed to solidarity. it therefore calls for rapid reform.
in writing. (sv) the the reason why the responsibilities of the high representative of the cfsp and the commissioner responsible for external relations of the eu should be merged into one office and assigned to a vice-president of the commission is that it is difficult to maintain dual leadership in the field of the second pillar in the long term. the fact that the eu has to maintain two administrations for external affairs and for the formulation of its foreign policy creates problems of both security and budgetary concern. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is our position on the corresponding paragraph in point 3 of the report on the progress made in implementing the common foreign and security policy (a5-332/2001, rapporteur: brok).
in writing. -{{v) we are critical of the adam report on the common organization of sheep and goat production. in our view, the amendments which have been proposed to us are, in general, part of an outdated agricultural policy which does not correspond to the conditions and needs of modern society on a global scale. in this context, and in the context of the next general review of the common agricultural policy, we have chosen to vote against this report as a whole.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as has been pointed out, this report is the result of the rather laborious work on the report on article 255 of the ec treaty on public access to documents, on which we voted on 3 may. thanks to the very strong alliance for transparency that existed and still exists in this parliament, in which maij-weggen and cashman have played a significant role, we were finally able to get the council and the commission to agree on a proposal that reflects the wish of this house for as much transparency as possible. the legislation we adopted has some shortcomings and some ambiguities, but it represents a first very important step forward in the fight for greater openness in the work of the eu for our citizens. we also decided to review the regulatory framework by january 2004. as then, we must now take the lead in taking another step forward. openness and transparency are the foundations of democratic governance and a prerequisite for citizens to follow and participate in public decisions. access to eu documents creates greater trust and legitimacy - two things that the eu unfortunately does not have in abundance today. so let us not make it too complicated when we adjust our rules. let us interpret article 255 as generously as possible and the concept of 'act' as broadly as possible. there are exceptions in the legislation, in article 4, but let us not leave open to new interpretations of secrecy or classification, nor let us build up unnecessary bureaucracies. it is important that citizens can obtain the documents to which they are entitled as soon as possible and that the documents are also available on the internet. the eldr group tabled amendments to this effect in committee, but they were not adopted. i hope that will be the case in practice. my group supports this report because transparency is effective and democratic for us - not bureaucratic and unnecessary. progressive and far-reaching transparency rules in parliament will show that we are for the citizens and not the other way around.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the extension of europol's mandate is not a new issue, which arose after 9/11. but it is clear that the need is particularly great at the moment. of course we need to exchange police information and law enforcement with third countries, as was emphasised by parliament almost unanimously when we voted on the report on the fight against computer-related crime. there are those who are concerned that europol would be over-resourced. they can consider the implications of europol having 388 employees to cover a population larger than that of the united states, while the fbi has 27 000 employees. the resources are not comparable at all, nor are the activities. europol is not operational. when information is transmitted, it is of the utmost importance for us to preserve data protection, to preserve individual privacy as far as possible. the human rights that we have enshrined in both the european convention and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union are a european symbol of which we should be proud and which we should also really take care to preserve. but we must beware of a big brother society. it is therefore important, as mr turco stressed, that parliament should be involved in carrying out its democratic control. it is completely unreasonable that these issues are outside the union's structure and that issues which are so important to citizens are discussed in a largely empty chamber. the collection of crime statistics is, of course, welcome. it is a bit sickening that the european centre for the control of drugs and drug addiction in lisbon collects a lot of statistics on drug abuse, while we have weak statistics on crime prevention. as to whether or not eurojust should be mentioned in this context, it has been found that many interpret the text as a desire to upset the balance of power between the political and the judicial powers. of course, that is not the way to interpret it. i do not want to create any misunderstanding on this point. in order to avoid misunderstandings, it would therefore be better to change the spelling of eurojust. finally, i would like to thank mr turco for the excellent way in which he has dealt with the swedish and belgian initiative.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the maat report is excellent and sums up the legitimate and powerful criticism that must be directed primarily at the council of ministers and the member states. it is a disgrace for a civilized and cultured part of the world, which calls itself europe, to treat animals the way we do. and besides, no one can convince me that this is financially necessary. it's probably financial madness. first, i would like to refer to paragraph 14. if a driver drives while intoxicated, he will lose his license immediately. how can a driver arrive with dead animals in his cargo and still have both a transport license and a driver's license? this is absurd! point 20 is about abolishing export refunds for live animals. this is a first small step that the union can actually take.
the rapporteur. (sv) mr president, as rapporteur, allow me to explain. we are talking, then, about three matters, macedonia, bosnia and herzegovina, together with the federal republic of yugoslavia, as discussed by the committee on budgets. we support the commission's request for urgent procedure. this is a matter of exceptional urgency, since many great needs have arisen, especially in macedonia. we are also concerned with extending the aid to bosnia, herzegovina and the federal republic of yugoslavia. we nevertheless need a little more time. to begin with, a proper discussion is needed in the committee on budgets. it is a question of transfers for this year and of budget issues for next year. we need a little time to obtain the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, and we need to have a discussion on the whole budget for the balkans for 2002 in connection with the conciliation before the second reading of the budget next week. we therefore propose voting to apply urgent procedure but also for deciding at the same time to deal with these three matters during the november ii part-session in brussels. we should then be able to have a joint debate on the issues relating to the balkans, at the same time as dealing with the lagendijk report on the european agency for reconstruction. our proposal is therefore in favour of urgent procedure but also of debating the matter during the november ii part-session in brussels.
court of auditors. – mr president, on behalf of the members of the european court of auditors, i would like to thank you for inviting me to present the 24th annual report of the court for the 2000 financial year. as in previous years, this presentation marks the start of the discharge procedure. the report follows the format used for the past three years, with chapters covering revenue and each of the expenditure areas under the headings of the financial perspectives. there is an additional chapter this year which marks the development of the union, which deals with pre-accession aid for which a separate financial perspective heading exists from 2000 onwards. you will also – as usual – find a chapter dedicated to the statement of assurance and, attached to the report, you will find the court’s observations on the implementation of the sixth, seventh and eight european development funds. the different chapters of the annual report address four main concerns. first, there is an analysis of the budgetary implementation and of the budgetary management practices for each specific financial perspective heading. then, you will find the follow-up of observations of the court in previous annual and special reports. thirdly, the specific appraisal in the context of the statement of assurance with information per financial perspective heading. finally, a new element this year is that the principal findings and recommendations in the special reports adopted by the court since the last discharge are summarised in the chapters according to the wishes of this parliament. this means that the annual report this year contains all the principal findings and recommendations concerning the implementation of the general budget and the european development funds that the court has published since the last discharge. you will also find, for the first time – not in the copy of annual report that you have in your hands today, but in the official journal version that will come when the official version has been printed, something that parliament has asked for many years – the text of the court in one column and the answers of the commission on the same page so as to make the report, at least in this respect, more user-friendly. concerning the budget management for 2000, one particular feature of budget implementation was the emergence of a very large surplus of revenue over expenditure, amounting to eur 11.6 billion, equivalent to more than 14 % of final payment expenditure. the main factors which led to this situation were a higher revenue yield than budgeted and – perhaps even more important – lower payments on structural measures, in particular those for the 2000-2006 programming period. the court recommends that the commission examine how it can better use the supplementary and amending budget procedure to avoid excessive budget surpluses, in order to avoid distorted revenue positions for the following year caused by the carrying over of surpluses. the court, responding to the wishes of the discharge authority, has continued to follow up the observations in previous annual and special reports. the main purpose of this is to review what action has been taken, principally by the commission, in response to the observations of the court, the recommendations of the council and the resolutions of the european parliament. in all of the subjects examined, some action has been taken. the extent and effectiveness of this action, however, vary considerably. in general, the commission, in particular where it agreed with the earlier observations and propositions, has adopted measures designed to respond to them and to improve the situation. in some cases corrective action has been slow, in others, staff and financial resources allocated have been insufficient to achieve the desired level of improvement. effecting improvements in the management and control of complex programmes involving many organisations at different levels is difficult and takes time. structural rigidities have often to be overcome, and in the areas of shared or decentralised management, which account for more than 80 % of the general budget, the commission requires action from others, such as member states. notwithstanding that achieving change can be difficult, the commission should ensure that it takes all the measures within its power to implement the recommendations of the court and of this parliament. in early 2001, as part of its follow-up work, the court reviewed progress in the replacement of the former anti-fraud unit (uclaf) with the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the new arrangements for olaf provide a more appropriate administrative framework, with greater independence for the office than its predecessor. the court continues to work closely with olaf. it has established formal procedures to ensure that the relations between the two organisations are efficient and effective. it has also established a constructive dialogue with the committee established to supervise the work of olaf, under the chairmanship of prof. delmas-marty. the court has recently prepared an opinion, soon to be published, on a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and the council on the protection of the community's financial interests. this directive is an important step forward in the fight against fraud. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mrs theato, on behalf of the court of auditors for her impressive work and dedication over the years to make this important directive possible. (applause) with regard to the statement of assurance, the court is of the opinion that the revised accounts for the financial year ended 31 december 2000 reflect reliably the community’s revenue and expenditure for the year and the financial situation at the end of the year. as far as the legality and regularity of underlying transactions are concerned, the audit of the principal management and control systems applicable to agriculture and structural measures revealed weaknesses in the functioning of control procedures aiming to secure the legality and regularity of the transactions. the audit of operational expenditure revealed an unacceptable incidence of error affecting the amount of the payments or the reality or the eligibility of the underlying transactions. in view of the results of its audit work taken together, the court is of the opinion that the transactions underlying the financial statements are, taken as a whole, legal and regular in respect of revenue, commitments and administrative expenditure but declines to provide this assurance in respect of payments in operational expenditure. since the last annual report the court has adopted eighteen special reports to be taken into account in the discharge procedure, containing the results of audits which focus on a wide range of specific areas in which the community’s financial management can be improved. the results of the court’s audits indicate significant positive findings. in the agricultural area the reformed clearance of accounts system and the integrated administrative and control system have contributed to improved management of large amounts of european union funds. the commission’s strategy for dealing with bse is basically sound. with regard to structural measures, the urban community initiative has helped the implementation of many urban development projects and has enabled local authorities to access union funds. in the external actions area, the work of the agency charged with the reconstruction of kosovo, was found to be both efficient and economical. the tacis cross-border co-operation programme is an instrument which has the potential to play a useful role in addressing issues relating to the new eastern border following the next accession. however, it was also found that major objectives have either not been achieved, or only limited progress had been made. further, it was frequently found that there was either insufficient or no evaluation by the commission of the achievement of the objectives. the commission’s reform programme is increasing the focus on results and performance measurement, within a resource allocation framework reflecting predetermined priorities and defined objectives. the court’s findings on recent programmes show that the commission still faces major challenges in this area. one of the most important issues in the discussion that we had last year here in parliament, when i presented the annual report for 1999, concerned the situation in the member states. the results are striking. the court has concentrated a large share of its resources on the audit of control systems in member states as a follow up to this debate. persistent weaknesses were found in member states’ checking of community operations concerning programmes where management is shared between the commission and the member states. this was the case for the integrated administrative and control system (iacs). it was also the case for export refunds, and concerning the control regulation for structural measures. improving the control arrangements in the member states is central to ensuring the correct use of union funds. it is also important if the court is to place some reliance for its own audit purposes on the checks carried out by the various audit and supervisory services in the commission, and in the member states. i will come back to this specific problem at the end of my speech. the recast of the financial regulation, which is an important element of the commission reform programme, maybe the first step that was taken, now seeks to clarify and strengthen the provisions relating to methods of implementation of the budget, advance payments, procurement, presentation of the accounts, and the offices. the introduction of new provisions intended to contribute to the establishment of a coherent legal framework in the field of budgetary execution, based on the primacy of the financial regulation, is another important improvement within the recast. however, as you will see from our annual report, some important matters of principle stated in the court’s opinion on the proposed changes have not been followed, which may lead to serious complexity in financial management. regarding enlargement, this year’s annual report has a new chapter dealing with pre-accession aid for which a separate financial perspective heading exists from 2000 onwards. in accordance with parliament recommendations in its 1999 discharge resolution, the court has been improving and intensifying the co-operation with the supreme audit institutions of the candidate countries during the past few years. furthermore, in liaison with the supreme audit institutions the court has been intensifying the exchange of information at different levels of national administrations. the setting-up of national systems of internal control and the external audit of eu funds made available to the candidate countries require closer co-operation between the institutions even before accession. enlargement will bring about changes in the way the council, the commission and the court of justice will work. this is also true for the court of auditors and for parliament. today, no one questions the provisions of the maastricht treaty to make the court of auditors one of the five independent institutions of the union. the nice treaty will mean substantial organisational changes in the near future, also for the european court of auditors, where the court will have the possibility of establishing an organisational structure in chambers with a more effective decision making, even if we will then consist of 25 member states. the court is actively preparing itself for this challenging reform. the court is developing its relations with the commission’s new internal audit service, with discussions covering a number of areas where we can work together. the court is giving high priority to assessing how it will be able to use the work of the internal audit service and the audit capabilities in the directorates general. one very promising sign of progress in this field was the conference, under the challenging heading of "verstehen" held at the initiative of the internal auditor, mr muis, on thursday and friday which mrs schreyer and mrs theato attended. i should like to say, as the president of the court of auditors, that this initiative might mean an extremely fruitful, concrete and promising step forward in the idea of a single audit system concerning european funds. the treaty states clearly that the european court of auditors assists the european parliament and the council in exercising their powers of control over the implementation of the budget. ladies and gentleman, i am soon to retire as president and member of the european court of auditors. during my seven years in the court i have been privileged to contribute to the court's growing importance, and to the continuous efforts it makes, in collaborating with parliament and meeting its needs in optimising the assistance it provides. the court is addressing the need in its statement of assurance methodology for more information on the nature and causes of the problems affecting the management of community funds by broadening the range of evidence in support of its conclusions. the recent reforms in the area of financial management and internal audit will enable the court to make greater use of the commission’s work, not least for its work on the statement of assurance. the court intends to continue to develop specific appraisals for each major area of community activity as a complement to its statement of assurance. the specific appraisals are now envisaged in the nice treaty and are an important tool to help the discharge authority to make appropriate recommendations with a view to improving management. one of the major tasks of the enlarged european union will be the collaboration between european and national supreme audit institutions. this has long been a key preoccupation of this parliament. but, as we all know, this co-operation has advanced slowly and parliament has repeatedly urged the court to improve the situation. after having followed progress for a number of years i have arrived at the conclusion that a good result in this respect requires initiatives at a higher level than purely technical co-operation between the supreme audit institutions of the member states and the european court of auditors. i would like to quote a member of this parliament, mr jacques santer who pointed out, when he was president of the commission, the importance of collaboration between the national parliaments and the european parliament. it would also be a key factor in the field of financial control. the supreme audit institutions act independently and have a strong collaboration with their respective national parliaments. so, collaboration between national parliaments and the european parliament could have a major influence on national audit bodies and the european court of auditors, in particular in the matter of financial control. the way of intergovernmental collaboration in this field is not the most practical route to take since the supreme audit institutions of the member states are, with the exception of my own country, independent of governments, as they are controlling them. but maybe the solution can be found in increased cooperation between this parliament and the national parliaments of the member states. let me finally add one little word. as parliamentarians in the european parliament, as commissioners in the european commission, also as auditors in the european court of auditors, we have a double role. we have to fulfil our tasks according to the treaty; to fulfil them as commissioners, as parliamentarians and as members of the court of auditors. but we also have another role in common. that is always to defend the idea of europe. (applause)
court of auditors. – mr president, on behalf of my outgoing colleagues and myself i would like to assure you that i have never regretted my resignation as much as at this moment. i wish i could resign every time we met in order to listen to this lovely music. so thank you very much for all the nice words. not least, when i go home to sweden i shall tell them of these kind words from denmark. thank you, mr. blak. i realise there is a heavy agenda, but i would like to take this opportunity to say a few words. i shall start with what mr kuhne has just said. it seems that a number of issues have been put behind us and there is a feeling – which i also had yesterday in a meeting of the committee on budgetary control – that we are now able to address some major issues for the future. the first is one which underlies the budget surplus problem. it is not so much the revenue i am thinking of, as the under-utilisation and the under-implementation of funds, which, in turn, has a lot to do with our problems in achieving good management and fighting fraud – namely the over-complexity of union funds and administration and regulations. i have had a long discussion on that with the discharge rapporteur, mr bourlanges, and i feel confident that this problem will be addressed now. my personal advice to parliament is to do everything in its power, together with other institutions, to simplify things. on all the major issues, such as the pre-accession funds, structural funds and export refunds and on the market regulations in agriculture, we have built a mountain of complexity which, if i may for once step into the realm of political judgment, raises the major question of the european citizens' confidence in this union. i would say that if i had to choose one of the tasks that mr kuhne mentioned as being the most important, it would be: simplify, for heaven's sake! i wish you every success in that. i think that this parliament, together with the court of auditors and the other institutions, will in the future manage to increase confidence among european citizens in our great project, which, of course, is the primary goal for all of our institutions. with that, i thank you once again, on behalf of myself and my colleagues, for your kind words and for this most stimulating and interesting exchange of views.
in writing. - sv) as i did in the vote on this report on 6 september, i am choosing today to oppose the position adopted by my group on the rules concerning the sending of unsolicited advertising by e-mail to consumers. electronic advertising is generally a nuisance to the consumer, particularly because of the time it takes to open and delete advertising messages. in addition, the consumer must bear the cost of receiving and reading the advertisement. the distinction proposed in the report between advertising by e-mail on the one hand and advertising by sms, fax or automated telephone call on the other seems artificial to me. whatever of these technologies is used, the inconvenience to the consumer is the same. the opt-in solution is therefore preferable for all these advertising methods, as it is the most effective protection against unsolicited advertising. in a context where it is important that this report be adopted by parliament as soon as possible, the existing compromise must nevertheless be considered an acceptable alternative, even if it is infinitely less desirable. that is why i choose to support the report in the final vote, whatever the outcome on the question i have just raised.
in writing. -{}the european film industry is having difficulty in getting its productions as widely distributed as we might perhaps wish. but the proposals in the report do not solve these problems. they are based on the fallacious idea that an increase in state and european aid could make an industry more competitive. moreover, they do not respect the consumer's free choice. the european investment bank would also be required to pay an additional item of expenditure which has nothing to do with its main tasks. if television companies are forced to adapt their activities to the requirements of promoting european cinema, they will suffer a restriction of their freedom. it is also questionable whether it is reasonable to require european schools to integrate support for the european film industry into their teaching. for the reasons i have just mentioned, i have decided to vote against the report.
(sv) mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i believe that public transport is incredibly important for europeans in both towns and sparsely populated areas. in this vote, i am therefore going to support the basic ideas behind the committee's proposal, which i believe points in the direction of better public transport. however, i oppose many of the simplistic statements made about tendering. our experience from sweden shows that tendering can be very good. account can be taken of the environment and of social considerations, safety regulations can be established and a good relationship can be enjoyed with the social partners. as a prerequisite, politicians must have responsibility for the tendering and establish these criteria openly. that is possible, as is shown by experience from sweden. we should be able to get rid of many of the simplistic statements about tendering. as i say, i am prepared to support the basic idea that regions and administrative districts should have freedom of choice. i also believe that it will, in practice, emerge that tendering can be used because it saves money that can be used for other purposes within the framework of public expenditure. finally, i want to say that i do not believe that the rule of reciprocity referred to in the committee's report should operate at european level.
(sv) mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i come from sweden where we have quite a high degree of exposure to competition and privatisation of various services. the lesson to be drawn from our experience is that the crucial issue is not really market competition or privatisation, as such, but quality, greater efficiency and good, cleverly designed organisation. these are aspects to which the commission has given insufficient consideration in its proposal. i want to express my thanks to mr jarzembowski who, as rapporteur, has come up with many criticisms of the commission's proposal. i should like to make a number of important exceptions, and i shall point out a couple of these. quite a few speakers have referred to pilotage. i believe that pilotage is quite clearly a service for the benefit of everyone. pilotage must therefore not be regarded in terms of the same economic criteria as ordinary production, but from a safety perspective. taking responsibility oneself can have very serious consequences when it comes to loading and unloading. that especially applies in view of the fact that flags of convenience are a common phenomenon. i am in favour of transparency and public scrutiny where ports are concerned. i am in favour of self-financed ports. i want to see quality and efficiency brought about through ports preparing their own development programmes instead of being subjected to extensive forms of control from brussels. such programmes must be carried out in cooperation with staff and clients at the ports.
(sv) i would thank the commission very much for its exhaustive and constructive answer. i would also thank the commission for its proposal to the effect that the derogation on cadmium in fertilisers should be extended. this derogation is very important to sweden and also to other countries. i obtained the impression that the special derogation rule mentioned last in the answer means that we have a sort of guarantee against having to receive fertilisers containing cadmium for a possible interim period before the new extension comes into force. is this view correct?
the rapporteur: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the strategy for the future chemicals policy, which we are to discuss and adopt positions on in this debate, is extremely urgent and important because it will form the basis for a draft legislative text and for new framework legislation for the eu's chemicals policy. gratifyingly enough, the european council decided, at the gothenburg summit in june, that a new chemicals policy would have to be introduced by 2004 at the latest and that this time limit would have to be respected. the commission must therefore table its draft legislation in the course of 2002. the debate on deficiencies in the current chemicals policy has been going on for quite some time. among the criticisms made is the fact that there has been a lack of information about the majority of the 100 000 existing chemicals, that the work has proceeded far too slowly and that the present policy has, in practice, failed to protect human health and the environment. the commission's survey of the legislation on existing substances shows that human beings and the environment are potentially exposed to a large number of chemical substances whose dangerous characteristics are not known. we know that the human body contains measurable quantities of 350 chemicals. we also know that the quantity of brominated flame retardants in breast milk has been increasing each year. even if pcb and ddt are now surrounded by tough restrictions, it remains the case that high quantities of these chemicals are still found in the fatty tissue of human beings and animals throughout the world, even in the polar regions where these chemicals have not been produced at all. new chemicals are added to the list, for example pfos or perfluorooctane sulfonate, which does not bind in fatty tissue but, rather, in blood protein. these chemicals are found in a number of products, for example shampoo. through the regulation adopted by the council in order to overcome the deficiencies, detailed risk assessments should be carried out and recommendations made as to measures, etc. which might be taken. we now know that there are only 140 chemicals on the 'priority list' and that risk assessments have been completed in only eleven cases. even worse is the fact that not a single measure has been decided upon to reduce the risks, despite the fact that it has been shown that such measures are needed for the majority of these substances. the commission's white paper, produced by the environment and enterprise directorates-general, is trying to create a high degree of health and environmental protection, while maintaining the competitiveness of the european chemicals industry. this is done, for example, by saying that chemicals policy must stimulate technical innovation and the development of safer chemicals. i share the view of the majority of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy that the strategy should focus on the protection of the environment and human health and that the starting point for the commission's white paper should be the debate in the council and the growing unease about the fact that the current chemicals policy cannot offer adequate protection of the environment and human health. naturally, the economic and social aspects must be accorded a fair degree of importance as parts of a strategy for sustainable development. if a majority of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy voted for a proposal that goes further than the commission's and shows how an effective, open and consumer-friendly control of chemicals should look in the future, that is completely in line with, and receives strong political support from, the european council summit in june when the conclusions drawn by the 15 member states were significantly stricter and more far-reaching than the commission's proposal. there is therefore an express political will to adopt the policy for a new chemicals strategy proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, above all when it comes to the scope of the reach system. as currently desired by the industry and the group of the european people's party and european democrats, only cmr 1 and 2 and pops are to be included which, in that case, cannot be said to be much in the way of a strategy for the future. even among industrial companies there is a desire to go further, for a competitive industry cannot be achieved through the unacceptable situation we have at present but only by producing safer chemicals and chemicals that protect human health and the environment. i therefore believe that we should stick to the compromise reached between the various political groups and to the proposal backed by the majority.
(sv) mr president, the eu's chemicals policy requires a thorough renovation and a single, new and comprehensive set of regulations. mrs schörling's report from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, which we are now discussing, provides an excellent point of departure for a new chemicals policy. with this report as a basis, the commission should quickly be able to table proposals for a new directive. the strength of the report is that it really puts the environment and public health first, and that must be our main task. we also believe that industry has a lot to gain from strict regulations in as much as they encourage modern manufacturers, promote innovation and mean that old chemicals that have not been investigated are no longer promoted, as they are in fact at present. the following points in the report are especially important to our group. first, the proposal as to which chemicals are to be included under the requirements for registration, evaluation and authorization should be made more comprehensive, as proposed. secondly, tough requirements should be made of chemicals, and of products containing chemicals, when these are imported. thirdly, everything must be done to minimize the number of animal experiments. fourthly, the substitution principle should be made a crucial component of chemicals policy. great importance should be attached to this so that safer alternatives will always be sought. fifthly, the use of the most hazardous chemicals of all should be considerably restricted. our group is pleased with the committee's proposals. we nonetheless have some minor amendments we believe could further strengthen the report. we wish to emphasize the demand that it should be those departments of the commission with responsibility for environmental protection that should approve new chemicals. it is also a question of further tightening up the requirements made of the most hazardous chemicals of all. in committee, the rapporteur chose a very sound and open method of working which gave all the political groups the opportunity to compromise at an early stage, and i think that is something positive.
(sv) mr president, i would like to thank europe needs a new strategy for dealing with the issues surrounding chemicals. we are concerned here with the health of all of us, as well as with that of future generations. the commission's white paper is a good point of departure for continued work on the strategy. mrs schörling's report creates good conditions for bringing about necessary changes. it is exceptionally important that parliament adopts the report in such a form that it has the same thrust given to it by the rapporteur. in the debate that took place while the report was coming to fruition, many objections expressed the fear that stricter regulations would put jobs and economic development at risk. that is an anxiety which must, of course, be taken entirely seriously but, at the same time, it is necessary to raise one's sights and look beyond jobs and the economy. economic growth and access to jobs can never be invoked to prevent necessary requirements concerning the use of chemicals, work on achieving sustainable development and a high level of protection of public health and of employees. what is the use of jobs and a sound economy if we poison our countryside and destroy what is essential for future generations? we only have one earth and we must take care of it. we often say that we have the earth on loan from our children. if we are to be able to hand it over in good condition, it is high time that we modified our way of life. it is in a number of capacities that, as human beings, we are affected by the ways in which chemicals are used. we are affected as employees and as consumers, and we are affected by persistent and bioaccumulative substances which can give rise to hypersensitivity, hormone changes, cancer etc. the regulations which now have to be devised must, in the first place, be aimed at protecting individual people and not, as now, companies' interest in making profits. a society characterised by sustainable development also provides lasting employment, a sustainable living environment and people able to have faith in the future. in that way, a better world can be created.
(sv) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i should like to thank mrs corbey for addressing these issues and writing this own-initiative report. we really need to discuss packaging. i nonetheless think and i say this following 30 years experience of environmental issues and environmental debate that, as usual, we have an incredible talent for running after problems and battening upon them. to discuss packaging solely from the perspective of waste, as we are doing now and have always done, is completely wrong. i address the commissioner with responsibility for environmental issues directly and appeal to her to allow us to discuss the whole chain. we have to discuss logistics, transport and the packaging that eventually becomes waste. above all, the amount of consumer packaging must and can be reduced. you and i come from the same country, and we know that experiments led to a 30 percent reduction in the quantity of material in consumer packaging over approximately three years. it is possible. i might perhaps be allowed to appeal for the forthcoming white paper on integrated product policy to address the whole of the logistical chain, something which did not feature in the green paper. that would be a merciful answer to our prayers.
in writing. -{sv) research and development are of crucial importance if we want europe to be a continent of economic growth and prosperity. international competition, particularly in the united states, increases the need for new and more extensive efforts in favour of researchers. in its proposal for the 6th framework programme, the commission has identified several important problems and research areas on which europe must focus. it is of course important that european researchers cooperate and that research efforts are coordinated in some way. it is also of great importance that we not only promote the physical mobility of researchers but also facilitate the dissemination of their research results. we are concerned that the framework programme provides for a very considerable centralisation of research. significant resources are invested in a small number of selected areas. this is tantamount to directing research in an unwelcome way, since the particular research orientations of the individual member states will be governed by the priorities defined by the commission. for small countries with only a modest research budget, the eu will thus risk becoming the main source of funding for this work, which is a centralisation which i consider to be negative. as liberals, we are committed to the principle of freedom of inquiry. from the point of view of efficiency, open research has proved its superiority over research commissioned by political authorities. a society which allows its researchers a wide margin of manoeuvre in the choice of subjects and methods will, in the long run, achieve better results than a society where the orientations of research are defined by the political class. the principle of freedom applied to the human quest for knowledge has, for centuries, strongly influenced research in europe. higher education institutions and universities play an important role in cooperating with the public sector and economic actors, but their main task should not be to take orders from each other. we believe that the sixth framework programme places too much emphasis on free research. we have therefore decided to abstain in the vote on the caudron report.
in writing. -sv) the caudron report takes a position on the priorities and frameworks to be assigned to research in europe, research financed by community funds through the sixth framework programme. as a christian democrat, i believe that our society needs ethical frameworks. the same is true of research. the most fundamental aspect of this is the question of human dignity. however commendable the goal pursued, it does not justify using humans as a means to achieve it. research involving embryonic stem cells is a highly controversial subject from an ethical point of view, and in addition, this practice is prohibited in four of our member states. this is not the case with adult stem cells. i therefore believe that research using adult stem cells should be given priority and that funding from the framework programme should not be allocated to this highly ethically controversial research on embryonic stem cells. under the principle of subsidiarity, national governments will be able to choose how to support research. the resources allocated to the framework programme are nevertheless limited. we have to prioritize. research which is ethically controversial and, moreover, clearly in conflict with the legislation of several member states should not be supported. that is why i have chosen to support amendment no 334, which i am one of the signatories of, and which reads in paragraph 4: 'work on embryonic stem cells cannot be financed from community resources, as no agreement has been reached between the member states on this matter'.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs riis-jørgensen, for her persistent and courageous fight for a free market economy. the rapporteur knows something that other colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the commission should know: state subsidies of whatever kind are detrimental to the economy, to the functioning of the market and to consumers. subsidies create inefficiencies and increase costs. the sad thing is that colleagues in this parliament now want to make a bad proposal even worse. i'm from sweden. in the 1970's, it was the second largest shipbuilding nation in the world after japan. my first job was at one of sweden's largest shipyards at the time. we built the biggest oil tanker ever. when competition from countries such as portugal, japan and south korea increased, the swedish state invested a total of 2 billion euros to save the shipbuilding industry. no industrial venture in sweden has been so unfortunate, costing so much and yielding so little. the necessary restructuring of the industry stalled and no new jobs were created. if we in the eu today want to show real solidarity with the shipyard workers and their families, then the commission's and the committees' proposals must of course be rejected. it would be a gamble for the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on 5 december 2000, the council decided that the granting of state operating aid of up to 9% to the shipbuilding industry would cease for all member states at the end of 2000. this is for two reasons. the state aid had not been shown to have a major impact on the industry's viability and there was a principled belief that state aid should be reduced as much as possible and preferably be phased out. parliament shared this view as recently as last year. state aid to shipyards is also contrary to international trade agreements, as is shown by the commission's attempts in the autumn of 1999 and spring of 2000 to reach a negotiated settlement with south korea for breaching existing trade agreements by means of large-scale state aid. when this fails, the commission instead proposes a so-called temporary protection scheme for the shipbuilding industry with operating aid of between 6 and 14%. the committee proposes that this should continue until the end of 2003, and at the same time that a wto dispute settlement procedure against south korea for breach of existing trade agreements should be opened. the reintroduction of large-scale state aid within the eu is unlikely to improve the conditions for resolving the dispute with south korea. it would be more correct to reject the commission's proposal and to focus all our efforts on the wto procedure against south korea. in conclusion, i would like to put the following question to commissioner bolkestein: how do you see this proposal in relation to the eu's competition policy, where we try to minimise, preferably eliminate, state aid to industries in order to create fair and healthy competition between companies?
i would like to thank the belgian presidency warmly for this reply. it was marked by a commitment and a sincere desire to do what was best for these people. kabul has fallen. the taliban regime is fleeing. afghanistan is facing a new future. in this scenario, i would really like to see the belgian presidency do everything possible to obtain information on these 16 afghans who are facing the death penalty. are they still in kabul? have they been taken to kandahar? can we save them? what happened to the eight aid workers from shelter now international? i would be very happy if the belgian presidency could tell parliament that all 24 of these people have been brought to justice, that they are free men and that they are alive. i hope that you, the belgian presidency, will do all you can. there are new possibilities now that kabul has been opened. i wanted to ask you if you think you can get a message out before the end of the year.
mr president, you did not give the belgian presidency the opportunity to reply to my follow-up question to question no 12. normally a follow-up question is answered, but at the moment a follow-up question to question no 14 was answered. i thought it was a little rude not to give the belgian presidency this opportunity.
in my question on the agenda i just mentioned that in my follow-up question i mentioned that a completely new situation has arisen in afghanistan and in kabul as the taliban regime has fled the capital. the situation was different when this question was put to the belgian presidency a month ago and when the belgian presidency was preparing its reply. there's a new opening. i therefore thank you for the consistent reply i have received from the belgian presidency, namely that you will act in the new situation in afghanistan.
i thank the council of ministers for their reply. i think it's very positive that you're trying to find a compromise. i was going to ask the council of ministers whether that compromise is based on the possibility of applying dietary recommendations to the consumption of baltic fish instead of absolute limit values. is that the kind of compromise orientation you're thinking of? i would also like to stress that the possibility of eating herring and herring from the baltic sea is not only an economic issue, but also an important cultural issue. the ban on baltic fish would be like banning clams and french fries in belgium, which i can imagine would be unthinkable.
in writing. -{sv) given the risks that chemicals pose to human health and the environment, the swedish christian democrats believe it is obvious that chemicals which have not been subjected to certain tests should also not be allowed to be marketed, according to the principle 'no data, no marketing'. we also support the substitution principle, which has long been part of swedish chemicals policy. similarly, we believe that the burden of proof should be reversed for substances whose use is of concern, which means that it is the industry, not the authorities, that has to prove that the use of the substances concerned can be accepted. since risks can be induced even at low doses, we believe that chemicals which are imported or produced in the european union in quantities of less than one tonne should be covered by this new system. we shall therefore differ on several points from the position adopted by the epp-ed group.
the committee on women's rights has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission's reform of eu governance is based on five principles: openness, participation, clear division of responsibilities, efficiency and consistency. the work in these fields cannot be considered to be of any value if one half of humanity is neglected. no one can claim to be working for participation if it does not ensure that both women and men participate. our committee, the committee on women's rights and gender equality, called for the establishment of a gender equality authority to collect and analyse data and trends, for women's rights groups and ngos to be included in the civil society database the commission intends to set up, and for information activities at national and local level to be gender-sensitive, as the priorities, conditions and needs of women and men are often different. it is regrettable that none of our demands have been included in the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the laeken summit will lay the foundations for a new eu treaty. the european parliament resolution calls for this treaty amendment to result in a constitution for the eu, i.e. a kind of decisive step towards a federal state. i think that a very important point has been overlooked, namely that the irish people have exercised their right to say no to the treaty of nice. at the laeken summit, this right and this 'no' of the irish people should be respected and it should be said that the treaty of nice should be reworked. the message from ireland is clear: less centralism and supranationality and more respect for national democracy. that is the kind of treaty change we need: transparency in the council of ministers with the possibility of checking decisions of national parliaments, while giving national parliaments the possibility of proposing laws instead of having that right to be in the commission's bureaucracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you said that the key issues at laeken were openness, efficiency and bringing the eu closer to the citizens. i couldn't agree with you more on this. after the not entirely successful compromise in nice, the irish referendum and, according to many opinion polls, growing scepticism in several member states towards the eu project, there is a great deal of expectation for the laeken meeting and for the eu to change. the eu must become more comprehensible and more citizen-friendly. a clear constitution is needed to explain how the eu is governed and who does what. the eu must clear its workload and concentrate on crossborder problems. i do not think that citizens want the eu to do more in all areas, but to do more in the areas they have decided on and to make decisions in a transparent way. it is totally unacceptable to pass laws behind the closed doors of the council of ministers. if the eu is to expand and deepen at the same time, we must regain the trust of our citizens and involve them. we will do this not through beautiful declarations and academic constitutional exercises but through real reforms and political courage. i hope that the rest of the european council will be as courageous as the belgian presidency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i shall concentrate on the legal issues which are the most worrying at the moment in the context of 'eu building'. there is a risk that the council will start to violate the council of europe convention, articles 8 and 10, the charter of fundamental rights, articles 7 and 8, respect for privacy, freedom of expression and the protection of personal data. there is little the citizens can do about it. the lack of balance of power in the legal field risks undermining democracy in the long term by the much-needed terrorist legislation. the intergovernmental model is obsolete. the european parliament must become a co-legislator and the court of justice must be given full jurisdiction. the council cannot be allowed to develop into a so-called state within the state. on september 11th, all the efficiency of the pillar structure was destroyed. external and internal security issues became increasingly interrelated. the european union must now take strong action against serious crime and terrorism. however, this must go hand in hand with increased transparency and legal protection, not least as regards the so-called due process principles, such as no penalty without law, the right of defence and impartial trial, proportionality and the presumption of innocence. these rights must be made unconditional at eu level. the laeken meeting must be a springboard for openness and democracy, which are essential for a successful enlargement. this requires a convention with a predominantly parliamentary basis, with, of course, a substantial number of members from the eu institution closest to the citizens. the convention should be able to work out a proposal so that citizens in the future know what to say. anyone who wants to develop the eu and make it better and bigger should support the ideas of a constitution with effective power-sharing which we hope will emerge from today's excellent reports.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for one of the best reports we have seen in a long time on fuel and vehicles. i agree with most of what the rapporteur has written. in particular, i would like to stress the importance of bringing this proposal forward from 2011 to 2008. it is very good that we include the fuels for working machines and treat them in the same way as any other vehicle. there is no reason at all to treat in a special way work equipment which we do not normally see on the roads, but the proposal the commission is putting forward would rather delay any possibility of doing anything advanced in this area. it is also very good that the rapporteur proposes a complete review of alternative fuels and also suggests that we can add more ethanol instead of the 5% allowed under the current ceiling. i got a problem. it's about the economic incentives. i understand the rapporteur's thinking, but i think the proposal is going to be wrong in the way we write it. the treaty already provides for economic incentives. if we include it in every directive we adopt now, there is a risk that we will create a horizontal treatment, which means that we will instead restrict the possibilities, as the council interprets it, of obtaining financial incentives. we are therefore doing ourselves a disservice by writing today. i would like the rapporteur to think about that.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! i think i may have broken some kind of record here today. i have been given a full 15 minutes to speak because i am rapporteur on three different but rather similar cases. eventually, i won't need all this time. finally, it seems that the balkans are moving more steadily in the right direction. we finally have something like peace, albeit under armed surveillance, albeit with continued inter-communal violence and a long way to go to genuine peaceful coexistence. the disarmament of armed groups in macedonia has been successfully implemented, not least thanks to a major eu contribution. we can therefore be optimistic, even though history has shown us all too often that peace is fragile, not least in the western balkans. democracy is also making progress. last autumn the milosevic dictatorship was overthrown by the determined action of the yugoslav people. in both croatia and bosnia and herzegovina, although with some problems in the latter case, democratic forces have made progress. last week's elections in kosovo were conducted impeccably. it was a privilege to be present at this historic event as an observer from the european parliament. however, much remains to be done. it is a matter of a great need for purely physical reconstruction, but also for the reconstruction of the infrastructure and the economy that were allowed to decay in the 1990s. perhaps most importantly, a genuine reconciliation process is needed to address the ethnic cleansing that has occurred in large parts of these countries and to resolve the major remaining problems of refugees and displaced persons. it is against this background that we in the committee on budgets have adopted three reports on the extension of the time-limit, and in some cases even the extension of the time-limit, for macro-financial assistance to macedonia, bosnia and herzegovina and yugoslavia. first, something about macedonia. in november 1999, the council decided to grant macedonia macrofinancial assistance of eur 80 million, partly in the form of loans and a grant of up to eur 30 million. the decision was taken in the context of the war in kosovo, as this crisis was causing great costs in macedonia, where hundreds of thousands of people had fled. the aim has been to facilitate the implementation of structural reforms and to remedy the consequences of the economic disruptions caused by the kosovo conflict. the aid is of course conditional, in particular on continuing its programme of economic and public administration reforms and on implementing the ohrid agreements earlier this autumn. as you know, macedonia was hit by this internal armed conflict. it has, of course, created further problems and delayed the implementation of aid. only some of them have been paid within the timeframe. that is why we now want to extend the legal basis for these aids. we're fine with that. however, the commission is also proposing an increased financial contribution, as problems are beginning to arise with macedonia, where developments have been otherwise positive. the problems have been exacerbated by the conflict. that is why the commission is now proposing to increase the contribution by 18 million. the committee on budgets considers that the commission's proposal is well balanced in the light of this political context. nevertheless, we have tabled some amendments to emphasize that this aid should be managed by the commission but in close consultation with both the foreign and security policy committee and the economic and financial committee. the background to this is that we consider it important to control not only the purely financial management of aid but also more political aspects, for example to ensure that no part of the aid is used to equip the macedonian army. we also stress that this type of aid, i.e. grants combined with a long-term 'soft' loan, should be seen as exceptional and should not become the norm for the future. then there is the matter of bosnia and herzegovina. in may 1999 we decided to provide this aid, a loan of 20 million and a grant of up to 40 million. this was of course also done to ease the economic situation and to support reconstruction in bosnia. the conditions were obviously that the economy and democratic institutions would continue to be reformed. we've had some problems with the implementation. a contribution of 15 million is therefore still to be paid. in order to implement it, we therefore need to extend the legal basis. we must also take into account that the elections held in bosnia in november 2000 led to a very long delay; we had negotiations, the high representative had to intervene, etc. this has delayed both reform and legislative work, and hence also the implementation of aid. economic growth has not been very good. the commission's proposal to amend this council regulation to extend the deadline until the end of 2002 is therefore supported by the committee on budgets. however, the same conditions shall apply in this case as in the case of macedonia in respect of the committee on foreign affairs and security policy. finally, a word on the third matter, yugoslavia. we decided just this year to provide this macrofinancial assistance of up to 300 million, again in the form of loans and grants. the aim is, of course, first of all to support the economic, social and political stability of yugoslavia, but also, as i would like to emphasize, to promote the role of yugoslavia as a stabilizing factor in the whole region. this year, it has become clear that the economic situation was perhaps a little more strained than we previously thought. in particular, the privatisation process has taken longer, which has also led to the loss of revenue from privatisation to the state budget. we also know that it has been a difficult process to find a solution to yugoslavia's relations with the world bank, the imf, etc. if money is not added, there is obviously a great risk that the economic situation will deteriorate further. we must bear in mind that yugoslavia already has an extremely high level of debt, over 140% of gdp. the commission therefore wants these new amounts - an increase of 45 million - to be in the form of grants. the committee on budgets agrees, but stresses that this must nevertheless be seen as part of the eu's multiannual programme and that it is exceptional support. we have also added that the aid will be paid on condition that yugoslavia continues to develop into a state governed by the rule of law and that it continues to cooperate closely with the international court of justice in the hague. in all three cases, we also believe that the ordinary budgetary procedure must be followed in order to provide new resources for the current financial year. it can therefore only be implemented through a parallel process with a transfer of funds from other budget lines, which requires the decision of the budgetary authority. mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission requested that these cases be dealt with as a matter of urgency before the last partsession in strasbourg. i said that i thought there were two things that had to be done first. firstly, we wanted to see the commission's concrete proposals for transfers to produce the necessary 45 and 18 million respectively, so that we could also see where the funds would be taken from. these proposals for transfers are now available and have been discussed in the committee on budgets. secondly, we wanted to be able to reach an agreement with the council on next year's budget so that we could ensure that these measures can be combined with a continued high level of other measures for the western balkans, for reconstruction, etc. we have now reached an agreement with the council, which means that these increased macroeconomic aid will be seen as front loading of next year's budget appropriations. at the same time, we are unanimously accepting the commission's preliminary draft budget for the balkans, which i also hope will be the result of the second budgetary debate in the next partsession in strasbourg. in this context, we therefore support these three proposals. finally, i would like to say a few words about my opinion and that of the committee on budgets on the lagendijk report on the european agency for reconstruction. i myself have had the opportunity on several occasions to experience the work of the agency and i consider it to be exemplary, as mr lagendijk also believes and as the court of auditors' report has confirmed. i think there are some specific reasons for this success. one of them is that, as parliament has called for, a more decentralised model of decision-making and implementation of eu assistance has been implemented, and that the heavy-handed, double decision-making that we had previously in the traditional committee system has been avoided. despite these excellent results of the agency, the committee on budgets wishes to emphasize in its amendments the importance of correct budgetary principles in distinguishing between administrative and operational expenditure, in particular in order to enable us to carry out a proper and qualified evaluation of the activities. we also want to introduce a reference to article 274 of the treaty to make it clear that this is an operation for which the commission, not primarily the member states, have the responsibility for implementation.
in writing. - s7v) we decided today to abstain from voting on the report on the criminal protection of the community's financial interests. we are not opposed to the establishment of a community public prosecutor's office for financial matters, but the report goes far too far and even goes into details which are not relevant at this stage. the rapporteur would also like to convert the commission's directive into a regulation, which we oppose.
in writing. -{v) the egyptian government must take measures to improve the situation of the 8 to 10 million copts in egypt, who are discriminated against in legislation, in professional life, in social life and in the exercise of their religion. at present, copts are second-class citizens in the eyes of the state's policy on recruitment. religious freedom is not a fully recognized right in egypt, since christians are denied the possibility of repairing their churches or building new ones. it is high time that the christian minority could also experience the impartiality of the judicial system.
in writing. -sv) the fight against terrorism is and must be one of the eu's priority tasks. however, it must not be imposed at the expense of judicial security. we are concerned that eu governments are now rushing to coordinate national legislation to combat terrorism. different legal traditions will merge in a very short time. this could undermine judicial security. this is particularly the case with the commission's proposal for a definition of the concept of terrorism. we believe that this definition is far too broad and leaves too many interpretation possibilities open. people who protest, for political reasons, against the current structures of society, and who use illegal means to do so, may well fall under the proposed definition. of course, it is not reasonable to label as terrorists anyone who protests against an unjust organization in society. we need more concrete definitions than those given so far of what should constitute the basis of terrorism. the more specific amendments proposed by parliament are welcome in this respect. the european parliament and the national parliaments must also have a real opportunity to exert their influence before the final decision is taken in the council.
in writing. -{sv) the fiori report takes a position on many sensitive issues relating to human genetics, and in particular on the ethical principles to be applied in this field. as a christian democrat, i believe that society needs ethical frameworks. the most fundamental aspect to be considered is respect for human dignity. as commendable as the end may be, it does not justify using human beings as a means. therefore, cloning is not justified in any form, whether one chooses to call it therapeutic or reproductive. it is not possible to draw such a line, since therapeutic cloning is no different from reproductive cloning at the beginning of the process, except that it is decided at the outset to destroy the embryo resulting from the transfer of the cell nucleus. the embryo already contains all the necessary information to make a human being. development up to birth, and beyond, does not tend to make our beings human - it is the development of beings as human beings. research using embryonic stem cells is an ethically controversial practice, and is prohibited in four of our member states (germany, austria, ireland and portugal). this is not the case with the use of adult stem cells. i therefore believe that priority should be given to research on adult stem cells and that the very controversial research on embryonic stem cells should not be given funding from the framework programme. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, this does not preclude national governments from making their own choices in the allocation of research funding. the funds for the framework programme are, however, limited. we have to prioritize. the commission has therefore decided not to support such a controversial type of research, which is in clear conflict with the legislation of several member states. that is why i have decided to support the report as it stood before it was put to the vote in plenary, and to remain faithful to the line which led me to vote for the caudron report on the sixth framework programme.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is a bit amazing that we have now achieved such good legislation. two years is a long time, but i personally thought it would take longer. it is extremely important that we talk about security, and on security we can reach a common understanding. this is measurable. the most important aspect of this new legislation is openness and transparency. no matter what we say or how we act, new crises will arise. there will be new scandals. we will have new scientific propaganda, of one sort or another, which will frighten the population, rightly or wrongly. the only way to deal with this is to do it with total transparency and openness. the commission has already made a number of proposals. now, anyone who is interested - consumer organisations, environmental organisations, the media - will be informed immediately. this is not just the information from a majority of scientists on a panel, but also the views of a minority. this means that no one can say that the union is hiding anything from its citizens. in conclusion, i would like to say that all this is good, but i wonder what will happen to compliance and control. where is the possible system of sanctions against those member states and companies which do not comply with safety standards? this is a step, it's a big step and the first one. but let us never forget that it must be implemented, otherwise it will be just words on paper.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in our group we fully agree with the approach of this report. we also think it is right to re-submit some of the amendments which have not been incorporated into this common position. we also believe that these amendments are of such a nature that it should then be possible very quickly to find a common solution together with the council of ministers and the commission. the most important amendment by the european parliament is the one which makes it clear that this is an authority for food safety in particular - not for food in general. for us, this is important. it is important to focus on security issues. amendment no 4 concerns the compatibility of eu food rules with other international agreements and regulations. of course, the eu will cooperate in this area with other parts of the world. the development of the world trade organisation, in particular, is liable to lead to a number of conflicts between different regulatory systems. in that case, we believe it is extremely important to assert the right to stricter regulations for health and environmental reasons. amendment no 22 concerns the financing of the authority. we consider it a matter of principle that an authority should be financed from the budget. it shall not be financed by fees charged for its services. that is why amendment no 22 is important to us. some amendments are about transparency, and we naturally support them. amendment no 41 provides that the meetings of the board of directors shall as a rule be public and that the exception to the closed door procedure shall be made. we think that's very important. we also think that the proposal for a broad geographical anchoring of members is a good one. the proposals we are now discussing have their background in the serious crises in the eu in recent years in terms of food safety. it has been about dioxin, bse and salmonella, to name a few areas. these scandals are closely linked to a highly industrialized farming system and an agricultural policy in which large-scale farming and yields have become more important than the environment, animal welfare and food security. if the eu is to tackle the root causes of the problems in this area, it will first need to reorganise the cap to put sustainability, the environment and animal welfare first. only then can we really tackle the root causes of the food safety problems in our union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues have made a number of justified criticisms of the procedures for today's programme. however, let me say that it is positive that there is a kind of evaluation of the year that has passed and that there is a more strategic thinking in the way the commission intends to work. but let's talk about the future. president prodi outlined the way forward on the question of the annual programme. as rapporteur for this parliament, i have had occasion to follow this matter for quite some time. i hope that we can conclude this soon and start work on the 2003 programme. as the codecision procedure has developed, the parliament and the council must play a greater role in the preparation of the annual programme. this does not mean that the commission's right of initiative is being called into question, but that the three institutions are moving more in tandem, which is conducive to both the transparency and the efficiency of our joint work. it will also make it easier for national parliaments and citizens to follow the process. as for the timetable, it seems we may now be able to agree. an initial presentation of the general priorities will be followed by a close dialogue between the commission and the committees concerned to determine the details. it is important that the parliamentary committees are involved at an early stage, because it is the committees that then deal with the proposal. then we can present the final proposal by the beginning of november at the latest. as regards the content of the programme, the criticism of last year does not mean that we do not want any legislative proposals. on the contrary, our joint framework agreement states that this is the annual legislative programme. parliament has called for clear proposals with a hierarchy of priorities, reasons for the decision, timetable, budgetary reference, legal basis and responsibility. the monitoring and evaluation must also be improved. as we have seen, many proposals are being reintroduced, while others are being dropped. a common database could be set up to follow the decision-making process in each case. mr president of the commission! a clear, transparent and predictable process would benefit all the institutions and also the citizens we are here to serve. it is our joint responsibility to ensure that this happens.
the committee on development and cooperation has been asked to submit an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you. i have a limited speaking time, but i would still like to raise a few important issues. in the field of aid, where i've worked, there's definitely been a breakthrough this year. we have reached an agreement with the commission both on the way in which the reporting will be done and on the focus of our future support. i thank the commission for the constructive spirit in which our discussions have been conducted. parliament's transparency and control over aid money will be considerably increased. the conditions are now much better than before for bringing order to an activity which unfortunately is often characterized by the opposite. the fact that the commission has accepted as a benchmark that one third of the aid should be used for social aid is also a definite success. the agreement guarantees a greater focus on programmes and activities of particular importance in the fight against poverty. i would also like to thank mr costa neves for his way of handling the work. it has been marked by openness, kindness and efficiency in a very difficult job.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs costa neves, buitenweg and others. they have not only sought broad solutions in parliament but have also insistently defended our positions vis-à-vis the council, which is not least important. i would also like to thank the council and the commission. we have sometimes been critical of the forms, not least in connection with the first reconciliation, but in the end we found a constructive tone. some difficult questions have been resolved. it is of course extremely important that we have been able to provide substantial additional support to afghanistan in view of the enormous needs that exist. i am personally pleased that we have also been able to channel some of this support to women's participation in the construction of the future afghanistan. i am also pleased that we have found solutions for the spanish and portuguese fishing fleets and for the support for the border regions. so, although the budgetary work has gone well, we still see a number of problems ahead. one of the main problems is that the eu budget is not sufficiently flexible. every year we see events in our world that require the eu to provide resources quickly. in 2000 it was kosovo, in 2001 serbia, and this year it is afghanistan. we have been able to raise money for these contingencies, including through the flexibility mechanism, but the process has been very cumbersome. now we see the shortcomings. this year we were able to use the flexibility mechanism for other operations in category 2. when a crisis like the one in afghanistan occurs at the same time, the problem becomes clear. we should then of course seriously discuss the path indicated by the interinstitutional agreement, namely the revision of the budgetary ceiling in the budgetary plan. the council is stubbornly refusing this, even though we have a budget in which large sums are never spent! the problem then becomes that parliament is left with only one choice: either to budget every penny to the roof and leave no margin for unforeseen events, or to cut back on other of parliament's heavy priorities and thus let aid recipients in other parts of the world in practice pay for our new needs in the balkans or in afghanistan. we can of course solve such a dilemma once, perhaps even twice, but when these efforts tend to become permanent, when the situation in kosovo, serbia or afghanistan gives rise to multiannual programmes that are superimposed on each other without the other needs disappearing, then the situation eventually becomes unsustainable. i think one of the big issues for next year will be to find new ways of increasing flexibility. i therefore welcome the commission's ideas as a starting point for this discussion and hope that the council will show the same openness. the poor implementation of the eu budget is also a fundamental flaw. we have now launched a number of new methods, which not only involve increasing payments, but we are trying to identify what we call the abnormally lagging areas, we are trying to clarify the requirements for the implementation profile, we have had extensive discussions on what services are needed to enable us to implement actions in different policy areas, and finally, as mr wijkman pointed out, we have also launched a new benchmarking method in the area of aid. these are important advances, but i believe they need to be developed further in the future if we are to regain confidence in the way we handle taxpayers' money. as next year's rapporteur, i naturally see some important areas that need to be worked through. the expansion is getting closer. we simply have to look not only at the short term perspective during the preparations, but also at the long term perspective when enlargement really hits the budgetary plans. finally, we must also look seriously at the reform of the commission. if we fail to do this - and it is not just a matter of reviewing the rules, but above all of looking at evaluation, monitoring and how we use taxpayers' money - then i do not think we will succeed in changing the way citizens perceive the eu. we must have an efficient administration and restore the citizens' confidence in the union. this is one of the most important tasks for future budgetary work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his very detailed reply. i have two follow-up questions. my first question is this: the large companies that are part of tabd make a number of concrete demands or wishes for legislation that they would like to see within the eu. i wonder if the commission reports back to tabd on how these requirements are met and if so whether this report is public. secondly, i wonder if representatives of tabd have attended any eu-us political summits, i.e. meetings at the highest political level. do these large companies and their representatives have access to such meetings?
i wonder when the handling and transport of animals will enter the public health and food safety chain. we have already recognised that the feed we give to animals has an impact on human health, but how we treat animals, what types of farming and what transport systems we use have as direct an impact on public health as poor feed. if this is not done properly, the risk of diseases, which are mostly cured by antibiotics, but also by large amounts of sedatives, increases greatly. one consequence of the misuse of antibiotics due to poor animal welfare is that what were simple infectious diseases in the last 60 years are now, and especially in the future, much more serious when antibiotics are no longer available.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in a report to the committee of 133 on the wto meeting in qatar, the commission argues that: active participation by european civil society strengthened the hand of the eu negotiator. this gives the impression that the popular movements would be as cheerful as lamy about the result from qatar. this is an unusually brazen lie. the truth is that environmental and solidarity organisations are criticising the eu's actions in doha and calling the final agreement a defeat for the poor people of the world. for example, the international forum on globalisation notes that the results from qatar mean: the ultimate triumph for the world trade body whose very mission is to exclude civil society from shaping economic systems. attac belgium writes ahead of the eu summit in laeken that the eu, partly because of its support for the wto, is essentially determined by the interests of financial institutions and large companies. the truth is that both the european popular movements and the representatives of the developing countries are very angry at the way in which the eu negotiators are using the language of power to "turn the hands" on the representatives of the poor countries. it is bad that the commission is advocating a eurocentric, selfish and neo-liberal trade policy, but to try to make the european people's movements share responsibility for the shameful abuse of power by the eu in doha, is that not a bit gross, mr lamy?
madam president, i would like to thank you. we are in the process of having a very good public health programme until 2006, and i would like to thank mr trakatellis in particular for this. i would like to mention a few points which i think should be included in this programme. the first is the most important objective of a health programme, namely, to ensure that disease does not occur at all. prevention cannot be emphasized enough and must be taken into account in all policies and activities. this applies in particular to environmental pollution which we know is harmful to public health, such as the use of toxic and unhealthy chemicals in consumer products and also the contamination of foodstuffs. i would therefore urge everyone to vote in favour of amendments nos 24, 40, 49 and 54. the other is complementary medicine. it is important that it be recognised in the action programme and that research, evaluation and information on complementary therapies be encouraged. amendments nos 25 and 44 deal with this. the third point i would like to make is amendment no 60 by my own group. we say we need to develop strategies to reduce antibiotic resistance. this is a major public health issue and a major public health problem, as the world health organization has also pointed out and warned. the fourth and final point is the importance of the measures to support the activities of non-profit and non-governmental organisations working in the field of public health. they're doing an incredible job in the field and they need all the support they can get.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this report has gone very well. the commission and the council adopted most of the parliament's requests at first reading. the directive now covers, among other things, the user interface, and we have an aggregate concept so that we know what we are talking about. all products intended for animal feed are now defined by a common term in all feed legislation. it is very good that the important rules on, for example, the dilution ban are now being implemented. this means that you cannot take a lot with too high levels of dioxin, for example, and dilute it with something else to get under the limits. i personally think it is extremely good that we have something called action limits in the directive, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is in practice the precautionary principle. this means that if, for example, a dairy discovers that the level of mycotoxin, a mold poison, is increasing in the milk, an investigation can be launched even though the limit for when the substance becomes dangerous has not yet been exceeded. then you can start to investigate why the levels of mycotoxin are rising in the milk and go back in the chain and stop and prevent before the limit of poisoning has been reached. the council has accepted everything except one question which we in the committee have now been forced to take up again, namely whether or not an unsuitable consignment of feed should be returned to the third world, for example. i and the committee believe that it is deeply immoral to simply send products which do not comply with the requirements of the directive on this way, when we do not know where the products end up, whether they will be used in the poorest areas or whether they will simply return to our own market in a different form. the committee therefore decided to table amendments which remove this possibility of re-export. we also chose to maintain a transitional period of six months after the entry into force of the directive. the commission and the council then came under the belgian presidency and offered negotiations. we tried to reach a compromise, which we did. i would like to thank both the belgian presidency and the commission for the excellent and constructive cooperation with me and my co-rapporteurs in this matter. we agreed on a compromise solution whereby re-exports would be regulated in the same way as in the general food law which we have voted through in parliament today by a very large majority. the aim is to cover technically a time-gap so that, when the general law enters into force, its provisions will apply to re-exports under this directive. it is not a new proposal, but a bridge over time. the compromise amendment we tabled has exactly the same wording as the whitehead report. but tonight, when everything was clear, we were informed that the council did not want to accept this compromise. i realize with deep regret that we must withdraw our compromise proposal and thus be forced to compromise. i would like to say to the council of ministers that this is a clear abuse of the institution of conciliation. this is not a dispute of such quality and seriousness that we should have to go that far, but i and my co-rapporteurs find the situation such that parliament is forced to highlight it. when five party groups sign a compromise, we mean business!
- (sv) mr president, it is clear that the fight against terrorism must be fought, but a number of measures which have now been rapidly introduced threaten to undermine the rule of law which the fight against terrorism must support. so, in sweden, purely on the basis of an american list, the financial resources of a number of swedish citizens of somali origin have been frozen. they have no protection and can't fight. yesterday belgium issued a warning for the plaque of a legal demonstration in connection with the top van laken. with these events in mind, one can only wonder how long it will take before the legal certainty of free movement in the european union is fully established. are these rapid measures only tackling terrorism or are they, in practice, actually the struggle of the establishment against both immigrants from islamic countries and the normal, legal protest movement against neoliberal class society? it would be very nice if the commission and the council could point out that this is not the case.
in writing. -(sv) the eu programme for community action in the field of public health is an important element of the work being done to improve health in europe. for social liberals, public health is a vital issue, crucial to the ability of our populations to lead a dignified and decent life. we therefore support the commission's proposal and the improvements which parliament has put forward at first reading. on the other hand, the amendments proposed by parliament at second reading would, in our view, have the sole effect of undermining the concept of public health, of bringing about non-compliance with article 152 of the treaty, and of undermining the self-determination of the member states in the field of health care. that is why we have decided to vote against all these amendments, with the exception of amendment no 1 on respect for the principle of subsidiarity in the field of public health and amendment no 60 on reduced antibiotic resistance.
in writing. -{v) as regards this programme, i voted against the proposal to develop, at european level, 'a specific action to promote, through awareness-raising/information actions for the general public, better nutrition and eating habits more respectful of the needs of the human body'. the european union must concentrate on its core tasks - working for peace and democracy, human rights, free trade and the improvement of the environment. only in this way will the project of european cooperation gain public understanding and support, as well as legitimacy among citizens. if this is not the case, the european project will remain seen, for the most part, as a centralised decision-making process for a minority. the outlines of future european regulation and the new treaties will be discussed at the council summit meeting at the royal castle in laeken, brussels, next weekend. in this context, it is more important than ever that the european parliament should show the maturity and political discipline it needs to avoid calling for the eu to engage in new political terrain, but to concentrate its efforts on the key areas of cooperation that are its responsibility. the principle of subsidiarity (or proximity) as defined by the maastricht and amsterdam treaties must be applied as a matter of urgency. one of the bodies which is totally independent of the union's institutions, namely the european court of justice, should have the right to ensure that this principle is respected and applied and that no further powers are transferred to the european level. the idea of running a centralised and uniform campaign for all of europe on what is meant by 'better food' and 'better eating habits' is clearly out of place, given the diversity of cultures, habits and tastes of the 370 million citizens of the member states of the union. let us ensure that the tastes, culture and lifestyle of the greeks, spaniards, swedes, british and germans remain diverse. we have great wealth here.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? we in the swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report on the directive on the reduction of emissions from two- and three-wheel vehicles. we believe this report is helping the environment. in this vote, however, we wish to say that we do not agree with the rapporteur, mr lange, that there should be a binding level of requirements by 2006. we believe that the level of requirements should be optional until the conditions are in place to define a new level of requirements. if we set a standard now, there is a risk that emissions from two- and three-wheelers in the future will be higher than necessary. we believe that it is not a good idea to use vehicle wheels, as mr lange suggests, as two- and three-wheel vehicles are not driven like cars. their acceleration is different and they're usually faster than cars. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- (sv) mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his thorough work on the three points discussed at the end of the report. paragraph 24 deals with the need for closer cooperation between the european union and the united nations and between the european union and the osce. i would like to take this opportunity to ask mr patten, the commissioner responsible for external relations, for his views on the methods of strengthening cooperation between the united nations and the osce. i would also like to draw attention to paragraph 27, which dealt with the proliferation of small arms and light weapons and the need for a common code of conduct for arms exports. my last, but certainly not least important comment concerns paragraph 28 in which the significance of education, as a key instrument for conflict prevention, is underlined. it is a pity that there can be no debate between the rapporteur and our delegates. i ask myself, in fact, what are the ethical and moral foundations of this conflict prevention. is it not true that conflict prevention is a democracy based on reconciliation, compromise and the fact that we can stand up to our losses? ter afsluiting zou ik iets persoonlijks willen zeggen. i would like to say something personal to you. as a member of the european parliament, i was shocked by the fact that some two hundred delegates were in the room when kim dae jung started to speak. kim dae jung is an important champion of democracy and human rights in asia, who paid a high personal price in the struggle for democracy. two hundred delegates were present when he spoke. zoiets is not conducive to the dignity of the parliament. it was a disgraceful display.
- (sv) mr president, we of the green group have absolutely nothing against better economic, cultural or other relations with iran. both commissioner patten and rapporteur gahler have said that not only positive things have happened, but also many negative things. better relations must not lead to a less critical attitude. your report raises the question of how much less critical we should be of a country with which we have improved overall cooperation. i don't agree with that at all. unfortunately, the right-wing parties in this parliament, which the report refers to, are not in a position to do so. we are rightly of the opinion that the gahler report does contain positive points, but that there are a number of points which need to be tightened up. that is why we have tabled at least ten amendments, of which i will mention only two. amendment no 13 is based on the proposal submitted by the european union to the united nations, in which the council expresses its criticisms of mr gahler in his report. in the amendment, among other things, the term 'steniging' is used, which is still used. although mr gahler has called for it, it is not in the resolution. that is to my mind a weakening. you must be told clearly that we are such a terrible punishment without more convictions. there are many other issues which we think should be included and which we have discussed in amendment no 13. in amendment no 19 we state that iran is not a safe country for refugees. as there is a tendency at present for people to leave the european union on arbitrary grounds, it is particularly important to stress that iran is not a safe country.
- mr president, the management of the oil tankers erika is setting up a series of activities of the commission. although your death was a good thing, i remain of my earlier opinion that the accident could have been prevented. both the rapporteur and the conciliation committee have done a great deal of work on the commission's proposal for the further improvement of various measures. the commission proposal was further improved by parliament. in the meantime, our position on the interdependence of interests has been adopted. moreover, we have succeeded in raising the minimum level of financial responsibility of the organisation. this is clear progress. the report on port state control is now also considerably improved. during the conciliation procedure parliament succeeded in oblige the 'black dozen' to submit, which in my view is particularly positive. the third issue of the introduction of a double-walled version of something similar for single-walled oil tankers is also a significantly more positive solution found over a long period of time. the council's common position also incorporates virtually all the parliament's amendments. in sum, i would say that parliament has a lot of power in these matters. the individual proposals would not have been sufficient, but taken together they represent an important step in the right direction. we have a concrete way of developing the good practices towards safer and better shipping and a better marine environment. i hope that accidents like the one with erika of the levoli sun in the future can be prevented.
in writing. -(en) during the budgetary discussions with the commission on category iv, a broad consensus was reached on the importance of improving the development aid information system and the need to develop objectives and indicators to measure its impact. in addition, it was agreed that a benchmark objective should be set for 35% of expenditure to be allocated to support for social infrastructure. as rapporteur for the development cooperation budget, i intended to propose an oral amendment to the original amendment, which i had drawn up, to stress that '... the social sectors of a given country reflect the wishes of the beneficiaries and that a degree of... standard. progress towards this indicative target will be monitored through the common information system relex.' however, due to procedural rules and lack of time, it was impossible to table this amendment. the intention was nevertheless to emphasise that the indicative target should be seen in the context not only of the total expenditure by donors but also of the wishes of the beneficiary countries.
in writing. - sv) the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy unanimously welcomed amendment no 22 which i have tabled and which provides for the addition of a new paragraph to the resolution, namely paragraph 9, which reads as follows: 'to require the parties to ensure that the state and the palestinian national authority have a monopoly on the use of force and that no parallel military structure can continue its activities.' for peace to become a reality between israelis and palestinians, between the israeli and palestinian authorities, it is essential that the use of force be the monopoly of the state authorities and that muslim paramilitary and terrorist groups - such as jihad, hamas and hezbollah - are not allowed to be armed and to carry out the terrorist attacks against civilians which are now taking place very regularly. unfortunately, my amendment was rejected in plenary. on the other hand, the ideas i had put forward were incorporated in paragraph 3.3 of the resolution, in a compromise wording 'calling on the palestinian national authority to dismantle terrorist networks, including by arresting and charging all suspects'. i regard this request as progress in itself, and the very clear wording seems to me to be in the same spirit and pursuing the same aim as the amendment i originally proposed.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank commissioner kinnock for his very detailed report. mr. kinnock, i was really trying to keep up with the times here! if i understand the situation correctly, homosexuals who are not swedish, finnish or dutch citizens and who apply for employment in the eu institutions, and who, as mr cashman says, have partners for whom there is no documentation, are not recognised by these institutions. then, perhaps, your mate will be able to attend a language course at some point. in view of this, i do not think, unlike some others here, that we have come very far. i understand, mr kinnock, that it is very, very difficult to make progress in this area because we have a lot of strange prejudices about people of the same sex loving each other in the same way as heterosexuals. i also cannot understand why the eu institutions would treat employees on a national basis in this case. if that reasoning were to be followed, it would mean that people employed by the eu institutions could also be paid on a national basis, but this is not the case. i understand, mr kinnock, that the situation is very difficult with the prejudices that exist, but i cannot agree that things are moving particularly fast in this area.
mr president, i would like to thank you. zimbabwe had all the ingredients to become a prosperous and successful country in southern africa. that's why it's so tragic to see it go straight to the edge. we have discussed zimbabwe many times in this house, and i know that it has been discussed in the other institutions as well. often we have wanted to see some small glimmer of hope, some small glimmer of enlightenment. we've been wrong every time. it's not like that. the situation is alarming. zimbabwe is a lawless, economically depleted country ruled by a powerful old ruler who has completely lost touch with reality and his own people. robert mugabe is breaking promise after promise to the outside world. he has not succeeded in stopping illegal land occupations or bringing about a just land reform. human rights are violated daily, and the opposition is harassed and persecuted in an unacceptable way. the regime is thoroughly corrupt, and the upcoming elections can only be called a democratic joke as election workers are threatened, harassed and imprisoned. freedom of speech is completely restricted. we must immediately cease all cooperation and assistance with the zimbabwean regime. all foreign assets held by mugabe and his family should be frozen. i would like to appeal to both the commission and the council to be crystal clear in condemning the mugabe regime and to say that our patience and that of the international community is running out. we must build a broad international coalition and cooperate with the sadc states to put pressure on and take action against the regime. at the same time, it is of course important to find ways of supporting the opposition, because there are a few brave people who are fighting for democracy and human dignity at the risk of their own lives. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. eight people, half of them children, have died in horrific and unimaginable circumstances. the same thing happened in dover a year ago. as it was said, this would not happen again. everyone is upset, but the truth is that thousands of people die every year under similar circumstances. we are talking about illegal immigration into europe, about people trying to get here without valid travel documents. but we are the ones who are making them illegal by constantly raising visa requirements, by constantly sending the signal that they are not welcome, by imposing carrier liability on airlines and by giving shipping companies the task of assessing who should be allowed to apply for asylum. this can't go on. we must agree on a common, humane and generous refugee policy, a migration strategy for the whole of europe. i hope we do not have to stand in this chamber again two weeks after a similar incident and mourn the dead people. we have to look ahead. we must see if we can find no other solution to this than repressive measures.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this week we have awarded the annual sakharov prize to three very worthy recipients who are fighting for peace and tolerance in an environment that is anything but peaceful and tolerant. the sakharov prize is not only a pompous ceremony but also an important manifestation that echoes in the world and hopefully instills further courage in courageous people who are working under oppression and slavery. the prize is an expression of the foundations of the union's foreign policy: respect for democracy and human rights throughout the world. those who received the prize the day before yesterday live in difficult circumstances, but they live in freedom. this is not the case with two previous laureates: aung san suu kyi, who won the prize in 1990, and leyla zana, who won it in 1995. these two courageous women, two parliamentarians, are held by their respective governments year after year despite international pressure. in the case of aung san suu kyi, it is an unimaginably long period of isolation and house arrest. it's been 11 years since she was elected the rightful leader of her people. we have seen a certain softening of the burmese regime. a few political prisoners have been released recently. however, this is not enough. aung san suu kyi must be released immediately, as must the other political prisoners in the country. leyla zana is being held captive by a country that is applying to join the eu. i hope that turkey will be able to participate in this house one day. however, radical and real improvements in human rights are needed before we can even start negotiations on membership. leyla zana and all other political prisoners in turkey must also be released. in this house we are determined, across party lines, to never cease to remind the world, burma and turkey, of the fate of these two women and the struggle for human rights, democracy and freedom of expression that they represent. i hope that the commission will also tell us what it intends to do to make next year a year in which we will help to secure the release of these two women.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it has not been an easy task for the belgian presidency. years of preparation, careful planning - all of it was brutally overturned after september 11, 2001. the developments in afghanistan and the fight against terrorism have completely dominated the agenda. i was going to congratulate the belgians because they have done a very good job. perhaps someone could tell the president of the council this. as regards laeken, my group is pleased that the declaration was so ambitious. it asks the right questions and allows the convention to work constructively and with an open mind. many of the issues raised, such as the way forward for a constitution and a clearer division of powers, are in line with the liberal group's agenda. the three persons appointed to the bureau, three well-known statesmen with long experience and great commitment, nevertheless raise certain doubts. can this trio of men, at a fairly mature age, really inspire the citizens, especially the young, in the debate on the future? it would have been good to have a slightly more mixed age structure and, as many here have pointed out, a woman on the bureau. after all, more than half the eu's population is made up of women.
