the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety was one of the first speakers to describe the results of buenos aires as a success.
if you close your eyes for a moment and listen to this debate, perhaps leaving out the word kyoto, everything that has been said here so far reminds you in detail of the great world environment conference in rio de janeiro in 1992. the problem was known at the time.
but back then, we were much more optimistic, because we thought we could limit global warming to 0.5 degrees by 2050 compared to the pre-industrial era, and now we'd be happy to stay at 2 degrees.
this is a very dangerous development, because apart from the democratic political question, which many of us are now dealing with, apart from the social question, which is now being raised with such force in the course of globalisation, the ecological question remains unresolved.
and as fatal as this may sound, you almost wish that there might be some evidence around the asian sea quake that the scale of this catastrophic disaster had something to do with global warming.
the whole big problem with global warming, in my view, is that there is no common enemy, that there are no alternatives to action, and that we continue to talk a lot but do far too little.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a policy of energy efficiency, but also a policy of energy efficiency, and that the community's energy policy is not only a policy of energy efficiency, but also a policy of energy efficiency.
transport is eating up all the successes of climate protection, and therefore measures must also be concentrated here.
commissioner, i never hear your voice when european countries which have committed themselves to achieving climate objectives achieve the opposite, namely an increase in emissions!
i do not hear your voice if these countries fail to introduce targeted measures against transport emissions!
climate change is one of the great challenges of the 21st century, as we have said in our resolution, but i wonder whether we are merely aware of this fact or whether we are even aware of it.
the environmental, economic and social consequences are obvious, but they are not yet enough to threaten us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the only way we can make a difference is if we don't waste the chance to start.
we must work to complete the internal market, to have energy across borders in a competitive system, and - very importantly - to make the content of europe tangible: e-government, e-learning, e-europe.
the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the task of developing a common policy on the environment.
on the other hand, this also means that less traffic is generated in the urban centers, and it also has the positive environmental effects of not generating exhaust gases and other things.
we are clearly saying that the market is not an end in itself but a means to an end, that we need an efficient market that lives up to its social and ecological responsibilities.
we have set ourselves the goal of full employment, we have set ourselves the goal of sustainability.
the cultural capital can only become a sustainable project if it is integrated into a process of urban development and the long-term cultural development strategy.
it is also unthinkable that what should contribute to the union's reputation - namely this natura 2000 programme as a visible sign that the union wants to be not only an economic union but also an environmental union - should be turned into the opposite.
i would also like to add my congratulations to those of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
but there are also many other sites that see it as a real support in the fight for biodiversity.
i have to say, madam president, the impact of our way of life on the environment is increasing rapidly.
but let us also remember that we have also made massive progress in the quality of the environment in various areas.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
however, i think we cannot rest on our laurels, because there are also some alarming figures: environmental factors account for one in six deaths and illnesses among children in europe.
we must therefore improve the form of the action plan in the following areas: the commission was right to focus on the need to combat four environmental diseases, but its approach is insufficient because it has not taken account of the many recent scientific studies and, unlike the scale initiative, does not provide for the application of legal instruments.
in addition, there is a lack of measures to inform the public about the causal link between pollution and health.
there is no provision for continuous evaluation to verify whether the measures contribute to a cost-effective reduction of environmental health problems.
china has the lowest wages, a third lower energy costs.
i would like to ask commissioner špidla specifically what he intends to do to limit the negative impact of emissions trading on the steel industry as much as possible.
we are facing a 15% increase in the price of steel production and another 15% in energy costs.
on the other hand, we have commissioners who are committed to reach and emissions trading, which will lead to a significant shift of substantial parts of our industry outside europe.
i see you as a communicating vessel for the lisbon strategy, and it is your task to support these very objectives of growth, employment, competitiveness, social cohesion and sustainability.
the current situation and the demand and development of the market suggest that this result will certainly be exceeded in 2005. this is not just a short-term cyclical fluctuation, but because of the energy demand of many large countries, such as china and india, these gains will continue to rise.
on the other hand, we have a situation where the european union - and you, commissioner, have spoken very extensively and positively about this - is trying to develop sustainable energy systems and is also spending money on research.
so i think it's really time to get some of that revenue into the development and use of alternative, renewable energy, sustainable energy systems in general.
what better way for the international oil companies to show their responsibility than to be prepared to respond to the commission's request - i hope there is such a desire - to talk to the commission about this and to reach a voluntary agreement among themselves to use at least part of these windfall profits to research and develop sustainable energy systems.
oil companies would do well to show social responsibility and develop alternative energy systems.
the talks of the international atomic energy agency in vienna were unsatisfactory in this respect.
the european union's added value is that we create peace, provide security, growth, employment and competitiveness, and guarantee social security and environmental sustainability.
i welcome the fact that the lisbon strategy includes the use of all forms of alternative energy.
in addition to the well-known environmental protection and the important contribution to the kyoto protocol, the increase in competitiveness, regional value added and rural employment are just some of the positive effects of this use.
the sixth framework programme has set an objective of 15%, which was not reached in the large horizontal projects, with the energy programmes being totally oversubscribed.
it is probably undeniable that with natura 2000 we have a very ambitious programme with high objectives, a programme which makes a very important contribution to nature and environmental protection and also has a high social value.
if we do not secure the financing in a sustainable way, the uncertainty will only grow.
we farmers are committed to sustainable agriculture.
but, madam commissioner, the policy must create a fair framework which will enable our farmers to continue to produce sugar in a sustainable, economically and socially acceptable way in the european union.
in view of the narrow result and the statement by the epp member, i assume that this subject will be dealt with very well in this plenary session, after it has been dealt with by the committee on the environment.
then we wouldn't need to waste any more of these funds.
i think it is good that the european parliament has insisted that instead of a very vague wording in the common position, there is now a clear priority for energy efficiency.
mrs ries has already said that it is important to inform consumers, for example, about how to use an energy-based product more efficiently.
we know that this directive is an effective instrument in the fight against climate change, but we also know that in the future, we will need a strict and good parliamentary control so that this instrument, in which we have some hopes, can really meet the requirements.
i hope, mr president-in-office, that you, and above all your successors, will be able to invest enough money, initiative and energy in this research programme, because if we are to be competitive, we must promote research and development.
this proposal is an important segment directly in the product-related environmental protection area, as cars and light commercial vehicles are products that citizens use almost daily.
i would also like to point out that we have regulated the direct environmental impact in other ways, particularly in the area of emission standards, and may i ask the commission to work quickly, particularly with the new euro 5 emission standard, so that these gases can also be reduced in europe.
i would also like to mention the particulate matter pollution which has now occurred in german cities in particular and which is causing some problems.
this means that in the dialogue between the authorities and the car manufacturers, the vehicle that is causing the most pollution problems must be selected as the representative vehicle.
in this way, environmental protection makes sense and can help both the citizen and the economy.
i believe that an important measure is to introduce these uniform standards, as proposed in some amendments for the main pollutants, throughout europe in order to avoid distortions of competition, but also environmental dumping.
i therefore consider article 6 very important and that we are sending a very strong and clear signal to protect the environment and i also hope that this parliament will oppose attempted water pollution.
despite the provisions for good agricultural practice that have been in place for many years, agriculture is still the main source of groundwater pollution.
according to a recent report by the european environment agency, every body of groundwater in the eu exceeds the nitrate limits, and in agricultural land, 87% of the groundwater concerned.
the world's water supply remains constant, but the quality of groundwater is suffering from pressures from agriculture, construction, landfills, pollution and increased traffic.
since, as the report notes, pollution may not become apparent for decades, careful management of these living resources is essential.
but if we encourage transport or transport across europe, for example, or the cultivation of insecticide-intensive crops such as maize and tobacco, we also encourage the risk of groundwater pollution.
the protection of groundwater must therefore be one of the community's top environmental policy priorities.
it is also widely used for drinking water, and its pollution can endanger human health, which in turn puts a strain on our health systems.
i am therefore glad that the environment committee has accepted my amendments, which aim to ensure that all the vitamins and minerals added to food can also be used by the body.
it is about keeping the regions livable, attractive and active, so that a sustainable working and living environment is created.
the 2003 reform of the common agricultural policy has introduced sustainable changes in european agriculture and forestry, and has further enhanced the importance of rural development in order to meet the lisbon and gothenburg objectives.
there is no doubt that we need action in economic policy, social policy and environmental policy.
the aim is to increase competitiveness, create jobs and take environmental responsibility.
good social and environmental policies can contribute to increased competitiveness and to growth and employment.
a report that makes it clear that we need more trans-european energy networks if we are to meet the lisbon objectives of increasing the competitiveness of our continent.
it is also about increased subcontracting, namely diversified subcontracting of energy, in particular of course oil and natural gas.
the presidents of the countries concerned were present, and the united states secretary of state for energy was also present, but unfortunately not the energy commissioner or any other european commissioner.
if such an important pipeline is being built in one of the areas covered by the european union's neighbourhood policy, which concerns a possible member state of the european union, or at least a candidate country, i would have liked to have seen you in that picture, not only because i would like to see you in a picture, but also because it would have been symbolic for the citizens of europe that this european union cares about energy at least as much as the government of the united states of america.
overall, to sum up again: i believe that energy supplies are important for the competitiveness of our continent, that it is important to have a diversified energy supply, including from outside, and i hope that commissioner piebalgs can be present at the next opening of an important pipeline and demonstrate how important energy supplies are to europe.
i myself come from a federal state - upper austria - which is certainly the world leader in energy efficiency, and we have always focused on making this energy efficiency as economical as possible, i.e.
it is therefore also sensible to focus on energy saving in the area of growth and employment.
i would therefore like to recommend to commissioner piebalgs that we create an energy efficiency prize and that we promote it worldwide so that we can learn about the best models worldwide and then implement them as quickly and efficiently as possible, so that we can also create new jobs and growth in europe from this new area.
we should also look back ten years and compare the different member states with each other, but also make comparisons at a global level and then also find a basis for negotiation for the next ten years, what objectives we want to implement and, above all, whether we can also include incentives such as the intelligent energy programme.
the environment itself is proving to us every day that it knows no national boundaries and that negative and positive effects do not stop at the barrier.
the commission has also proposed that everyone in the community should have free access to the environmental data in question - a huge step towards a citizen-friendly europe.
the 2003 cap reform has introduced sustainable changes in european agriculture and forestry.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
you should not be surprised that the majority of the population outside say no to this eu, no to this waste, even if they say yes to europe, as i do.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
help politicians to make a clear case for the need for structural reforms and the creation of balanced budgets as the basic conditions for sustainable growth and employment growth.
it creates sustainability and identity, and that's what we want in communications management.
however, i cannot help but mention a few figures on air pollution: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
biodiversity is threatened in over 60% of all ecosystems in europe.
in addition, 650 000 square kilometres of europe's ecosystem are threatened by nitrogen pollution, an area 20 times the size of belgium.
on the one hand, we can emphasize competitiveness, but on the other hand we must not forget sustainability.
because europe is known for its sustainable growth.
in the long term, i believe this is the only chance we have in the world to ensure our competitiveness vis-à-vis india and china in a sustainable way.
if the objective cannot be achieved within this period, it is quite possible to create a correspondingly stable environment with a further framework directive.
i believe that we need a stable investment climate in particular, as we are faced with increasing demand.
we need to promote energy efficiency.
the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the task of developing a common policy on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency (eea) is based on the principle of the european environment agency (eea) and the european environment agency (eea) and is based on the principle of the european environment agency (eea).
the commission's approach also shows that it does not want to assume its responsibility for the implementation of community environmental policies.
in principle, however, i should like to congratulate the commission on having created one of the pioneering programmes of european environmental policy with this life instrument, which was launched in 1992. the important thing is that the birds directive, the habitats directive and the flora and fauna directive should be implemented and that the implementation was also financially supported.
the new proposal covers the period 2007 to 2013 and is also designed to support the objectives of the eu's sixth environment action programme.
i would also remind you that - we talk a lot about lisbon in this house - one of the objectives for 2010 - the lisbon year - is to halt the loss of biodiversity in europe.
our capital is this biodiversity, this natural wealth that our region has.
i would like to make it clear that i voted against the béguin report twice when we voted on amendment no 43, not because i was ignoring the content and the proposal of the committee on the environment, but because we should be asking ourselves the fundamental question of whether we can now take decisions in individual committees in the middle of the debate on the financial perspective which are contrary to our decision in the böge report.
the first of these criteria is, of course, compliance with international labour standards, social and environmental standards and the prohibition of child labour.
in addition, the support measures in question will enable our model of multifunctional, sustainable agriculture to become a model in all parts of the eu, far from the continent.
here we have the opportunity to create a sustainable economy by other means, which are economically, ecologically and socially balanced.
you'd have to look to 2050. climate change is already here.
this is not just the opinion of the head of the un environment agency, klaus töpfer, but also the scientific experience.
isn't it time that we quickly put together a master plan - similar to what nasa did in the 1980s for the coming climate change - that lists in great detail what we are likely to have to expect and that doesn't have any taboos, including the taboo of having to abandon certain areas that are now inhabited?
we have already expressed our solidarity with the victims of these environmental disasters.
this has already been mentioned: climate change has already happened here.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
the higher frequency is certainly closely linked to global warming, but here too we should continue research through european funding programmes and, above all, consider the possibility of prevention.
the aim was to prevent accidents and the resulting damage to the environment and human health, as they occur in the treatment and disposal of waste from the extractive industries, by setting minimum requirements to improve the management of this waste.
the waste from the extractive industries amounts to about 400 million tonnes a year.
this represents 29% of the total waste generated in the community.
the environmental benefits of waste management not only reduce waste but also provide an incentive for companies to invest in research into environmental issues related to the extractive industries, thus acquiring valuable know-how on the world market.
i would also like to point out that there must be provisions for non-hazardous waste or inert waste which must remain proportionate.
i therefore think that amendments nos 11, 13 and 47 should be rejected and that we should also make alternative proposals for provisions on non-hazardous waste and inert waste and consider these terms separately.
the temporary storage of non-hazardous or inert waste should also be allowed.
this should ensure that what our consumers buy has been produced under reasonable conditions, without massive damage to the environment and without child labour and the like.
sustainability concerns all of us.
sustainability is not only an ecological issue, of course, but also an economic one.
we must ensure that companies can survive, and this is not just about taxation, but also about giving companies the opportunity to invest in the future, so that a sustainable offer can be created here that can also be perceived in global competition.
i would like to refer in particular to energy policy.
norway, with its oil and gas reserves, or iceland with its geothermal energy and renewable energy - countries which are our role models in this respect - offer us a great opportunity to develop common strategies in the energy policy of this area in the future.
i think that this is one of the priorities for the future, when you look at where energy prices, oil and gas prices are today.
but this area will also play a very special role for us in the future, particularly in the field of energy security.
and let's remember that we have much higher water and energy consumption than these countries.
the amount of waste is also increasing dramatically.
sustainable tourism concepts must be built upon from the outset.
in this financing, infrastructure, housing, local authorities, the energy sector and, last but not least, small and mediumsized enterprises play an important role in the further development of the union.
ladies and gentlemen, we have had a very intensive discussion on this matter in the committee on industry, research and energy, because it is also a question of the competitiveness of european industry.
this directive can also make an important contribution to the sustainable improvement of safety and its implementation as soon as possible is desirable.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
to achieve this, economic attractiveness with sustainable employment opportunities is as important as conserving land, preserving the environment, raising local awareness and providing adequate infrastructure.
the commission is not i would like to begin by saying that we greatly appreciate the efficient and committed way in which you, commissioner piebalgs, are taking energy policy forward.
i am also very pleased that the presidency has made some commitments here on the question of energy policy.
this is also true - of course not only - particularly for energy policy.
if you are commissioner for a longer period, perhaps in time there will even be a cake, an energy cake, which can be served to the european citizens.
on the one hand, consumers pay very high prices, and on the other hand, there are the so-called windfall profits, not only in the oil sector but also in other energy sectors.
so perhaps for the non-opec countries, we should consider whether we could create a euro area of our own in the energy sector or even incentives to form a euro area, because that also brings a certain degree of stability and independence.
the population wants ethical standards in production, they also want ecological standards in production.
we need to find more sustainable recipes, recipes that are sustainable enough to make sure we know the conditions under which products are produced.
i am talking about labelling which should take into account both social and environmental aspects.
but if you put yourself in the other person's position, you must remember that the international atomic energy agency, as it is structured, is also biased in favour of the official nuclear powers.
in my office there are a lot of complaints about attacks and thefts on visitor groups, and i would ask the parliament and the directorate to perhaps set up a contact point which can follow up these complaints in a sustainable way, also with the belgian authorities.
experience in both countries and innovations in other member states clearly demonstrate that there are technically and economically viable alternatives to fluorinated greenhouse gases that are generally better for the environment.
alternatives are available for a wide range of products and facilities that can significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
a number of alternatives even reduce energy consumption at the same time.
the german federal environment agency has produced a comprehensive study on the availability and efficiency of alternatives.
the eu's burden-sharing agreement commits different member states to very different greenhouse gas reduction targets.
three of the six gases listed in the kyoto protocol are fluorinated greenhouse gases which are to be regulated by this legislation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
but this can only be done if either community-wide objectives are ambitious and sufficiently stringent - we know that this proposal is not - or if article 175 is taken as the legal basis, thus giving member states that have already gone further the opportunity to implement a stricter, more environmentally and climate-friendly policy.
it has already been said today that austria and denmark have introduced general bans on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
it was also mentioned that there is a comprehensive study by the german federal environmental agency.
this study shows that there is potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and for reducing energy consumption.
it would also send a positive political signal that we do not back down on countries that are already doing more to protect the environment and the climate.
we are talking today about criteria for energy and transport infrastructure projects, and this is necessary because the history of promises of new infrastructure without accompanying measures is also a history of disappointed expectations.
i therefore attach particular importance to the implementation of the common signalling system, the implementation of cost-benefit analyses, the respect of eu environmental legislation and its consideration as a condition for co-financing.
this house, the way it's funded, it's a living, breathing waste.
i would point out that i followed the rapporteur in the doyle report and consider article 175 to be the correct legal basis because austria and denmark have already introduced general bans on the use of these f-gases and the experience in both countries shows that technically and economically viable alternatives to these fluorinated greenhouse gases exist in principle and are much better from an ecological point of view.
we are not responsible for national energy policies.
the second chapter you have mentioned, mr president of the commission, is the energy question.
i have great respect for the commissioner for energy and i work well with him.
but we have already stressed on many occasions how important it is, in the light of developments, that the whole commission should clearly commit itself to an alternative energy policy.
we have been very keen to support the transeuropean transport with its negative consequences, such as pollution of the environment and the risk to people along the transit routes, with eu funds, while neglecting small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the real employers in europe.
but i always wonder why they are not prepared to tax aviation gasoline in the same way as other energy sources, especially fossil fuels.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the pollution of the environment.
european family forestry is a strong practice of sustainable forestry for the benefit of the whole economy.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we must ensure that the funds are allocated in accordance with eu competition law and i believe that the legal framework must also be in place to prevent distortions of competition, both between member states and, above all, between producers; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector.
that is why we are concerned about the need for peer review, that is to say, mutual control and transparency in implementation, and that we must pay particular attention to the fact that in future the means for decommissioning, final storage and safeguarding will be provided by the consumer of the respective form of energy.
but we must not make the mistake of saying that we are all responsible for this global climate change and that it is caused by man-made co2 emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency.
we also have to bear in mind that the community is currently responsible for only 14% of co2 emissions.
i do not agree with my colleagues on nuclear energy.
i believe that nuclear energy is not an alternative to these co2-producing technologies because it has too many negative effects in the long term.
first of all, we must not make the mistake of offering nuclear energy as an alternative to developing countries because it simply cannot be safely handled in those countries.
the record prices of oil and gasoline are currently a most unpleasant reminder that we are likely to face a new energy crisis.
since 1960, global energy consumption has nearly tripled.
the united states leads the way with a quarter of the world's energy consumption, but the real cause is the progressive modernization of former developing and emerging countries.
80% of the world's energy is still produced from fossil fuels such as oil, gas and coal.
however, the development of these resources is becoming more complex and expensive, and their use is damaging our environment.
in this situation, to call for nuclear energy again would be to exchange the plague for cholera.
although fission has the advantage of not releasing carbon dioxide and thus not contributing to global warming, until the existing problems of reactor safety and nuclear waste disposal are solved, neither new nuclear power stations should be built nor the life of existing ones extended.
we can only continue to develop the renewable energy sector, which is the only viable alternative in the long term, to meet demand and to further improve the efficiency of energy use and existing technologies.
unfortunately, the amendment was adopted by mr vidal-quadras, so that the express exception for nuclear energy has now been removed.
i think that is wrong because i believe that nuclear energy is not a realistic alternative for the future and that the risks are not yet manageable.
we are not against the report as such, but it should have been made clearer that nuclear energy is not an alternative.
we can only build trust with new partnerships and sustainable solutions.
after a very tense debate on chemicals policy, it is also quite relaxing to come back to a subject on which there has already been a very large majority in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and which i believe will be again tomorrow.
in the committee on the environment, my proposal to reject the commission's proposal was adopted almost unanimously, with 47 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions.
the reasons for my refusal are as follows: as the proposal falls under the environmental policy chapter, the european union is obliged to base the legislative proposal on the latest scientific evidence.
in 1997, the european parliament adopted a report in which it called the international agreement totally inadequate in terms of animal welfare and environmental objectives.
but on the whole we have achieved something that has never been achieved before, namely a level of environmental protection that is certainly unique in the world.
i would like to take this opportunity, as part of my explanation of vote on reach, to congratulate the animal welfare and environmental organisations on their great and comprehensive commitment!
rain, wind and cold do not deter those involved from taking action on a cause that is important for people and the environment and from raising awareness of the problems associated with the controversial chemicals regulation.
if 85% of all chemicals in circulation are not tested for their risks to people and the environment, then it is high time to finally make up for this failure.
i think it is good that the commission also clearly states that the applicability of this finding of the european court of justice goes beyond the case namely, an environmental case and concerns all policies, in particular the four freedoms of the treaty.
non-trade aspects such as social, environmental and cultural issues should be included in the doha round!
the establishment of a fair world trade system requires that such binding minimum labour standards, as well as compliance with international environmental standards, be placed on an equal footing with the prevailing wto trade law.
in addition, some development plans have a devastating impact on the environment and the ecological balance of many coastal areas and, in particular, on the future situation of water supply, which is also a concern of the european union.
these weeks, as every year at this time, we are experiencing the greatest period of waste in the european union.
what a waste, what an attitude.
it is an important objective of european environmental policy to introduce battery collection systems in all eu countries now.
but the fact is that by introducing recycling quotas we will also achieve very good environmental standards and that we can recycle raw materials.
with a balance between the needs of the european economic area with free movement of goods in the single market of 25 and over and a road-cost directive which also takes environmental concerns and the health of people who have to live along european transport routes much more into account than before.
a final word as an austrian: 15 years ago we started to re-shape european transport policy in such a way that it also takes into account environmental and health concerns.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental costs of the waste are not passed on to the consumer.
the so-called eurovignette directive is, in any case, a decision for the future which should and must move towards a transport policy which is more friendly to people and the environment.