as the commission pointed out when it launched the poster campaign, the priorities of european commission development cooperation are: to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty; promote sustainable development; build democracies; contribute to the integration of developing countries into the world economy; support good governance and promote respect for human rights.
a comprehensive, integrated approach is therefore essential in achieving sustainable development, as made clear also by the treaty on european union in article 3, which emphasises the importance of assuring consistency of external policies and instruments in the context of external relations, security, development, economic and trade policy.
i am thinking, for example, of creating european funding for natura 2000; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected.
finally, as regards the evaluation of the union's policies, the luxembourg presidency was right in stating in its presidency text that the evaluation of all the union's policies in the light of the criteria of sustainable development should not be regarded as secondary and should not be overshadowed by the lisbon strategy as such.
i am thinking, for example, of transport policy or energy policy in the light of the international commitments the european union has made in the context of the climate convention.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the union must continue to play a leading role in the international climate negotiations and that it is now committing itself to achieving the 2020 objectives - we are already seeing much further ahead - which require much greater energy saving efforts than those we are making today.
so our message as an environmental group, commissioner, is that we really need to change our strategy.
second objective, and you will not be surprised, we need quality growth, which is more energy efficient and much less polluting.
look at the commission's documents on the evaluation of the community strategy for sustainable development: the results are disastrous, hence the absolute need to change course from this point of view.
it is essential to create a climate that encourages entrepreneurship among young people, a climate in which administrative burdens and taxation are substantially reduced and in which smes have easier access to risk capital.
89% of european citizens say they are particularly concerned about the impact of the environment on their health and with good reason!
the figures are encouraging, and i will mention only a few: one sixth of child deaths and illnesses in europe can be attributed to environmental factors; the so-called allergic respiratory diseases have doubled in the last 20 years, affecting one in seven children today.
in response to these figures, the european commission launched the scale strategy for environment and health in june 2003, scale for science children's awareness legal instruments evaluation.
this action plan, i would say, is not what it is called, but rather a programme for the assessment of the overall environmental impact on health.
i would mention in particular the actions to raise awareness of the risks faced by citizens, the training of health and environmental specialists - there are far too few of them - the introduction of biomonitoring at european level, all of which are interesting initiatives, as i said, but which do not give off the sense of unfinished business that i felt when i read the commission's communication.
the 52 european ministers for the environment and health who met in budapest last june for the conference on 'a future for our children' understood this by stressing the balance, the delicate but necessary balance, between more research and the urgency of preventive action to protect health.
it wants to classify tobacco smoke in the environment as a class 1 carcinogen.
i hope you will also support the introduction by your services of a green paper on indoor pollution, from the nursery to the home and the school, which is still the poor relation of environmental legislation.
europe is in a race against time against all forms of pollution.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many people are concerned about the impact of the environment on their health, and these are very concrete matters.
meanwhile, it has been sufficiently demonstrated that fertility declines and miscarriages increase due to environmental influences.
it is a research plan that is unlikely to succeed in actually reducing the burden of disease caused by environmental stress.
so there is a lot of scepticism, a lot of concern, but fortunately there is satisfaction with the work of mrs ries and the work of the committee on the environment.
secondly, we would like to emphasize that there is no system of biomonitoring, that it is not being set up to establish the link with environmental medicine.
through the close cooperation between parliament and the commission we will be able to provide the european union with an effective and efficient way of addressing the possible consequences on human health of environmental concerns.
the gradual setting-up of an integrated environment and health information system, in which human bio-monitoring will play an essential role, is the added value of the action plan.
indeed, many actions have already been taken on the major environment and health issues.
just to give you some examples, i wish to draw your attention to clean water and sanitation, which are dealt with through the urban waste water treatment directive, the drinking water directive and the bathing water directive.
we must continue with our efforts before coming up with additional elements and it is for this reason that the environment and health strategy focuses on preparing the next generation of environmental legislation.
the environment and health strategy contained a specific focus on children and during the stakeholder consultation process to prepare the action plan, experts highlighted that concern.
the precautionary principle is at the core of environment policy and it will continue to be the cornerstone of our action.
the commission will not use this lack of information in the field of environment and health as an excuse for inaction.
we are currently making the case within the commission for a very substantial increase in the amount of research funding devoted to environment and health.
this amounts to a massive increase of our current environment and health funding.
we have also solved the problem of motorhomes and caravans, for example, by not introducing a more complicated b+e driving licence, but by adapting training; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
finally, what concrete steps can you take, and will you take, to ensure that the basic, social and ecological thresholds are also respected in china?
we also call on all third countries and all eu member states which have not yet done so to ratify the additional protocols to the international atomic energy agency as soon as possible.
we must also ask ourselves, in the case of iran, why that country really needs nuclear energy, even for peaceful purposes.
the monitoring capacity of the international atomic energy agency should therefore be strengthened as a matter of urgency.
if we want to achieve the levels of growth necessary for sustainable development then a vibrant services sector is a prerequisite.
we are grateful to the president-in-office for the courageous decision of the barroso commission to give new impetus and life to the lisbon strategy, and in doing so, on the advice of the kok working party, to give priority to growth and jobs in a balanced social and ecological context.
we must choose competitiveness, a positive business climate - including and especially for smes - economic growth and jobs.
reforms are now needed to provide the prospect of sustainable development in all respects.
that means that we are once again in a climate of constructive dialogue, and that will benefit the work and responsibility of parliament.
finally, on sustainable development, i am still quite surprised at the lightness of the subject.
the european commission has presented a report on the community strategy for sustainable development, which therefore concerns the sectoral policies of the union.
so if the major political impulse that mr barroso expects and that we expect from the council is to say: 'we are going to make a european charter of indicators', excuse me for saying so, just look at the reports of the european environment agency and you will have your indicators.
we expect much more, we expect much more binding targets to be set for transport policy, energy policy and the kyoto commitments.
before we begin this debate, mr president, i would like to ask, without, of course, wanting to diminish the qualities of commissioner frattini, whether you know the reason why the commissioner responsible for the environment is not present at this very important debate on natura 2000. i can only regret that and i find it unacceptable.
natura 2000 is the main tool for the conservation of biodiversity and endangered species in the union.
as regards the question of financing, yes, we must ensure the sustainability of financing, of the co-financing of natura 2000 by using, as the commission proposes, the existing sectoral financing instruments: the cap rural development fund and the structural funds.
the objectives are clear: to work together to protect the environment.
considerable progress is still needed in areas such as public health, the environment and high technology.
a strategic environmental impact assessment of the planned routes is necessary as new port developments will occur as well as new transport flows in the hinterland.
the last element is that we must also make progress on the issue of emissions at the same time.
it is not that ships are totally pollution-free.
so let us have the courage to name the two main obstacles to the sustainable development of poor countries, and those are corruption and bad governance.
the commission has also been active in the field of environmental protection since the early 1990s.
better regulation is therefore an important building block for creating a business-friendly environment and a strong entrepreneurial culture.
innovation in environmental technologies not only contributes to growth and employment, but also, and more importantly, to sustainable development.
because consumer and economic confidence is the necessary element for increasing consumer demand, for increasing investment and for increasing domestic demand, and this is the basis which must lead us, in a sustained recovery, to more growth, more employment opportunities and, through them, to greater guarantees to preserve and deepen social cohesion and the sustainability of our model of growth and society.
i understand that you do indeed share the view that state aid to nuclear power stations should be integrated into the total price of energy, of electricity.
i would like to ask you what measures you will take in the coming years during your mandate to ensure that we know what state aid is given to nuclear power stations and to what extent that state aid is internalised in the cost price, so that the consumer has a clear idea of the real price of nuclear energy.
madam president, commissioner, it is probably not presumptuous to say today that tomorrow at 1 p.m. we will have adopted the final version of this directive on eco-design for energy-consuming products.
the european union will thus have a new tool, a source of innovation and environmental protection, because this eco-design applied to household products or construction is the future.
more than 80% of environmental pollution occurs during the manufacturing phase of the product.
it covers a wide range of products responsible for about 40% of co2 emissions into the atmosphere.
all energy sources are covered and all sectors concerned.
we therefore share the concern, commissioner, to promote eco-design with a specific aim: to improve the ecological quality of products while maintaining their quality of use.
this is why this directive is rightly based on the integrated approach, which is to take into account the cradle-to-grave product, since at some stage in this life cycle any product generates impacts on the environment.
this multi-criteria and multi-stage environmental assessment should not, however, prevent us, the legislators, from setting one or more priorities, and we have of course done so, considering that energy efficiency constitutes a priority thematic action in the fight against climate change.
first, with regard to energy efficiency, it is envisaged that within the next 24 months, and even before the first work plan is drawn up, the commission, after consulting the consultative forum, will adopt implementing measures taking into account the product categories with the highest potential for co2 reduction, with priority for the seven product categories listed in this european plan to combat climate change.
since this directive is intended to extend the ce marking to energy-consuming products which comply with ecodesign requirements, this product control must be effective throughout the union.
it also provides for control of all the commercial actors in the chain, who must be able to prove by a declaration of conformity that any product sold in europe meets the ambitious energy efficiency criteria we want to put in place.
the second point is also to provide information to consumers and smes, two essential links in the economic chain which play a crucial role in the distribution of these eco-friendly products on the market, to inform consumers about the environmental performance of products, and to help smes financially and technically to manufacture these products which must be more eco-friendly.
i also thank the commission for its very wise arbitration and all my fictitious rapporteurs, whose collaboration has been very valuable throughout these eighteen months of procedure, who have been able to maintain the unity of parliament to achieve this agreement, which puts on an equal footing the three pillars of sustainable development, environmental, economic and social.
we want a workable law - as has been said, as the rapporteur has said - a directive which also gives us the means to inform and effectively combat all forms of pollution, most of which are becoming less and less accidental, because in the case of bathing water too, the causes of environmental pollution and their impact on the health of citizens in europe and elsewhere must be tackled.
they are fairly easily available on the market, at relatively low prices, and they are all too often an obstacle to sustainable development and reconstruction processes.
is it not paradoxical that the commissioner for communication, who took part in the debate, was ten times more visible in her previous portfolio, the environment, than in this one, which should put her in the forefront?
as i said, and as you all know, in july we will have a broad discussion about the status of olaf and the legal environment surrounding it.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the rapporteur, mrs brepoels, for the work they have done on this subject at first reading.
if we are to make good environmental policy, then we need to have good information.
the result is that our environmental policy is not based on knowledge to the extent that this would be possible and desirable.
in this way, the knowledge infrastructure will be improved, not only for environmental policy but also for other policy areas that use the same geographical data.
in the course of these discussions parliament has shown that it clearly understands the importance of removing the barriers i mentioned earlier in order to improve the knowledge infrastructure for environmental policy.
despite decades of common european environmental policy, significant barriers to the access to and use of spatial information at community level are still identified.
there are already a number of instruments, i am thinking of the european environment agency, and new instruments are being developed in a number of related directives.
i can tell you, commissioner, that we are indeed fully in favour of the aims and principles of the proposal, because inspire also aims to give citizens a better understanding of environmental policy and to make environmental policy more accountable at local and regional level.
it certainly also wants to be the engine for gathering new relevant environmental information.
finally, it will certainly also be a tool for making environmental policy more efficient and effective across borders.
the proposal does indeed concern information necessary to monitor the state of the environment, but also to improve it.
it can therefore support all policies that have a direct or indirect impact on the environment.
as you have already pointed out, there has been a wide-ranging debate in our committee on the environment.
this is a waste of time, but we have made very important progress together.
it should enable us to take another important step towards a more sustainable european environmental policy.
we therefore hope that this report will be a catalyst for a structural and sustainable approach to combating the financing of terrorism in the european union.
the eu leads the world in the fight against climate change.
however, it must be stressed that the eu cannot solve the world’s energy and climate problems alone, a fact recognised in the conclusions of the council of 22-23 march, also referred to by the honourable member, which set out the objectives for all the developed countries and not just the eu.
the objective of reducing greenhouse emissions must be set in the context of sharply increasing global energy demand, which is predicted to rise by 60% by 2030, and increasing concerns over energy dependency in the geopolitically unstable regions of the world.
european energy research thus has to face the threefold challenge of ensuring security of energy supply over the short, medium and long term, enhancing competitiveness and winning the battle against climate change.
to achieve the goal of a more sustainable energy system, energy research has to strike a balance between increasing the efficiency, affordability, acceptability and security of existing technologies and sources of energy, whilst simultaneously aiming at a longer-term paradigm shift in the way europe generates and consumes energy.
in this equation, nuclear technologies will continue to play a role, along with the increased uptake of renewable energy sources and other clean energy technologies such as hydrogen and fuel cells and co2 capture and storage.
nuclear fission currently contributes 16% of the eu's energy supply and is, along with renewables, a major source of carbon-free electricity.
moreover, key objectives of the community research programme on fission concern the safe management of nuclear waste, the operational safety of nuclear installations and radiation protection, which covers a wider field than energy, such as medical uses.
fusion has the potential to make a major contribution to the realisation of the sustainable and secure energy supply for the eu within a few decades.
recent technical studies suggest that an adequately funded fast-track fusion development programme, including iter, could lead to the operation, within thirty years, of a demonstration fusion power plant through which the commercial viability of fusion energy could be established.
it is recalled that in the conclusions of the march meeting, the european council also invited the commission to forge ahead with iter, to start its construction before the end of 2005. however, it is clear that the commission's proposal for the seventh framework programme also puts strong emphasis on non-nuclear energy in general, with a significantly increased the budget compared to the sixth framework programme and an emphasis on renewable energy sources in particular.
the renewables are recognised as being key technologies for europe in that they are indigenous sources of energy and can be adapted to different regional conditions.
renewable energy sources for electricity generation, fuel production and for heating and cooling are all given a high profile in the commission's proposal for the seventh framework programme, within the broader portfolio approach mentioned earlier.
the potential for job creation in the renewable energy sector must be fully exploited, not only through increased research and development, but also through the adoption of policy measures at european and national levels, to facilitate their penetration into the market.
the commission will therefore continue to provide a substantial level of support to the research and deployment efforts of renewable based energy systems.
it fully expects that they will secure a larger share of the energy mix through the resulting improved technological solutions.
i am very pleased that you have given your full support to renewable energy sources.
i think the european union has been unilaterally opting for nuclear energy for far too long, and especially for nuclear fission, but i understood the commissioner correctly when he said that nuclear fusion would provide 16% of our electricity needs in the future.
how can we hope to achieve our ambitions in research and development, the environment, employment, the protection of the less favoured regions, and enlargement if the 'club of the six' does not let go of its weight?
on behalf of the adle group, annemie neyts, coordinator for the committee on foreign affairs, said that the adle group voted against the amendments of the green group and in particular against amendments 8, 10 and 11 (climate change, new nuclear weapons and the non-proliferation treaty) in protest against the greens' habit of not joining a joint resolution and then tabled amendments which were not even discussed during the negotiations on this joint resolution in which the green group participated.
this means that social cohesion, sustainable development and the new emphasis on growth and jobs remain shared priorities by the three institutions.
this directive concerns the daily lives of european families and puts an end to these six substances which are dangerous to health, to the environment, toxic to reproduction and in particular disruptive to the immune and hormonal systems.
they did so on the recommendation of the scientific committee on health and environmental risks.
mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs isler béguin, for the quality of this collaborative work and the energy of her commitment to this issue.
at its june plenary session, in its resolution on the challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged union, our parliament sent a very clear political signal to protect the planet, nature and biodiversity.
we must therefore strengthen life+, the specific financial instrument for the environment which we have had since 1992. i would therefore like to make two main criticisms to the commission, which i share with our rapporteur.
behind this battle of numbers, it is europe's willingness to tackle major challenges such as air quality, water quality, land use planning and sustainable waste management that is at stake here.
the second criticism is that i believe that the european commission should not shirk its responsibilities in the field of the environment.
the strategy of integrating the environment into all the union's policies has its limits, commissioner.
that is why the alde group will support amendments nos 42, 43 and 44. the european parliament will always be at your side in opposing this environmental europe, which is in some cases declining, and in all cases, is being imposed by certain member states which have chosen to withdraw into themselves.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the commission's vice-president as you know, the commission presented a proposal for a directive on 15 march 2001 to combat environmental offences.
this includes the fraudulent transfrontier shipments of waste mentioned by the honourable member in his question.
the text criminalizes and makes criminal penalties payable for a number of acts which are harmful to the environment, whether committed intentionally or through gross negligence.
such conduct includes the illicit disposal, treatment, storage, transport, export or import of waste, including hazardous waste, which causes or is likely to cause death or serious injury to persons.
as mr staes points out, on 26 may 2005 the advocate general delivered a very favourable opinion in favour of the commission's position, since mr dámaso ruiz-jarabo colomer suggests that the court should annul the relevant provisions of the framework decision of 27 january 2003. if the court were to follow its advocate general, a new legal instrument, this time community, would have to be adopted for the purpose of protecting the environment through criminal law, including against fraudulent transfrontier shipments of waste.
it is about turning this military success into political success, catalyzing this positive energy to get back on track, because the withdrawal from gaza can only be the beginning of a process.
for example, environmental objectives or human mobility.
there is a second group: those who resign themselves to a marriage of reason, saying to themselves that after all, this is a big country, it is a crossroads for energy resources, it has water, it is a friend of the united states, it was right during the iraq war by not getting involved and, after all, there are still 71 opportunities for each country to oppose its veto during the negotiations.
the proposed directive does not provide for binding agreements in the field of quality of service, safety or environmental requirements.
here too the commission could play an important coordinating role in the transition to energy-efficient equipment.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is certainly an important step in tackling climate change, because it will lead to a reduction in the use of f-gases anyway, but it is only a first step, so i think it is being put forward quite thoughtfully at the moment.
the unilateral imposition on the industry, without any consultation, of additional restrictions which are not feasible at the moment, on applications for which there are insufficient alternatives or for which alternatives are not more energy efficient, taking into account the total environmental cost, and this possibly within the provisions of article 175, is therefore absolutely unacceptable to us and i would like to hear the commission's opinion on this.
the three fluorinated gases involved here, hfc, pfc and sulphur hexafluoride, contribute to global warming.
the hfcs now being criticized replaced the ozone-depleting cfcs in the 1990s.
the use of these three gases in applications as varied as refrigeration and air conditioning systems, pharmaceutical aerosols for asthma treatment or fire extinguishers justifies a balanced approach between the well-being of the population and climate protection.
finally, i would like to point out that we can effectively combat greenhouse gases without making a 'purely legal' sign!
that is why i rejected the simple legal basis of the environment, which would have had only one effect: to split the single market into 25 different legislations.
- the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/94 - 00/0425 (cns)) a first cursory reading of the annual report shows that the commission has become better organised since the fall of the santer commission and the start of the reform process.
europe, the european union, the european agricultural policy will only be acceptable to the public if these waste products are dealt with.
but there is one concept missing from the call: sustainability.
i thought to myself, actually, in english, sustainable, it sounds good.
in french, sustainability already sounds less good.
and then sustainability, as we say, sounds even worse.
and this unease, to put it in a figurative way, would really dissipate if the sustainable development strategy you are announcing for december did not turn out to be the poor child of pope barroso.
let me try to make this clear: you constantly refer to the american economy, but do you know that the ecological footprint of the american economy is six times what the planet can support?
this is what a study by the world wide fund has shown, and it would be interesting if, as part of this sustainable development strategy, the commission would tell us whether it recognises this finding and whether it draws any conclusions from it for european public policies.
on the question of enterprises and competitiveness, environmentalists are absolutely convinced that enterprises are not the main but the essential actors of sustainable development.
and that is why my group, and the european parliament, knowing that companies are torn between the duty to report to their shareholders every quarter and the need to develop strategies for sustainable development and long-term investment, constantly stress the need to set quantified targets.
so we want 20 to 25 per cent renewable energy by 2020 and we want cars that consume 2.5 litres per 100 by 2020, because 70 per cent of oil consumption is linked to transport in the european union.
mr president, in exactly two days' time parliament will have a golden opportunity to reconcile europe and the european people by voting this ambitious reach regulation, which is really protecting our health and our environment.
the choice is simple: either we turn our backs on the concerns of the citizens by succumbing to the sirens of a certain industry or by voting for a traditional left-right split which is totally outdated here, or the european parliament will turn the test marked by its committee on the environment in favour of a strong reach, which will bring hope to the citizens and to the many innovative industrialists who have made a bet on clean chemistry.
i hope that this thursday parliament will make the modern commitment to combine health and sustainable employment instead of continuing to oppose them in a fruitless way.
it is not necessary to be less, because it is ultimately a matter of health and the environment.
if we are careful this week, we will be living in a different environment in 11 years' time and we will have caused no less than a revolution in the union.
we will have data on all chemicals and we will be much more sensible about them, we will have contributed to better public health and a healthier environment.
i can also ensure that, in the joint paper with mr solana, we outline our objective of a balanced and sustainable settlement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu action plan called flegt - forest regulation, governance and trade - is concerned only with the concept of legality and does not address the wider and more complex issues of sustainable development of forestry.
similarly, illegal timber may come from a sustainable source, such as timber harvested under indigenous management systems that, while environmentally friendly, are not subject to official legal requirements.
however, in most countries, forestry legislation is based on sustainable development principles.
it is therefore not desirable to impose strict social and environmental conditions on potential partner states.
it should also be noted that, while the eu's flegt action plan focuses on governance and legality, the eu remains committed to promoting sustainable forest management in developing countries.
over the past decade, the european union has allocated more than €700 million to sustainable forest management in asia, central africa and south america.
in the not so distant past, europeans were fond of patting themselves on the back for the progressive environmental policy that was being pursued here.
they had to be able to prove that their products, which they make a profit from, do not pose unacceptable risks to health and the environment.
the committee has acknowledged that in the current environment – i.e.
this is a good reason for all member states to make greater efforts to reduce environmental risks to a minimum in the future.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i believe that the commission should adopt its strategy for sustainable development today.
the question is not without its impact on the debate on the legislative programme in that my group has criticised the commission's programme for not paying enough attention to sustainable development issues in particular.
since last month's debate with president barroso, the european environment agency has published a very important and very interesting report, the third five-yearly report on the state of the environment in the european union and the effectiveness of the union's policies.
i shall not summarize this 750-page report in 30 minutes, but it is clear that despite considerable progress, the overall situation continues to deteriorate in a number of sectors, particularly transport, energy and agriculture.
i was really surprised to learn that two hundred million working days are lost every year because of occupational diseases related to air pollution.
that is why the green resolution calls for you, among other things, to introduce binding measures for car emissions linked to air pollution , to introduce implementing measures under the eco-design directive, for which the commission is behind schedule, and to introduce a kerosene tax as part of a broader tax reform that detaches labour and, as has long been said, penalizes environmentally harmful products.
i voted in favour of the adoption of a new european directive on batteries and accumulators and the management of their waste.
this is a fundamental rule for europe's future production and collection, for the benefit of the environment and consumers.
if the european union were to act with the same energy, strength and speed against terrorism itself as it did against the alleged cia flights, we would certainly be on the right track.