human health, both physical and mental, is directly related to the environment we live in.
most disease processes are the result of interactions between our bodies and various environmental factors.
an environment and health action plan should have two main goals: firstly, to identify quickly the main environmental health risk factors and, secondly, to eliminate or minimise their effect on human health as soon as possible.
it is principally concerned with improving information and research relating to environmental pollutants and disease causation, and enhancing environment health communication procedures between member states.
on one hand yes, because information, research and cooperation in environment-health interaction matters are always a good thing, but, we do not necessarily need more time- and money-consuming, research-related mechanisms in order to act fast and save lives now.
we already know which main environment hazards kill people, so it would be common sense to concentrate first on these and try to eliminate them quickly and efficiently.
in conclusion, i say 'yes' to research and information for combating long-term environment-related diseases we do not know much about, but i urge the commission to say 'yes' to immediate drastic action to prevent the diseases we already are very familiar with today.
the contribution of environmental pollution is enormous to the development of cancer, a disease which will affect one in three europeans in their lifetime.
there are numerous authoritative scientific studies on substances harmful to the environment and human health, which makes us wonder which interests the commission is protecting: the european citizen's or the interests of big business?
it is also essential to find resources both for research, which naturally needs to be intensified, and for the prevention of diseases linked to environmental causes.
i would like to stress here the vulnerability of low-income groups, who, because of their economic or social position, are disproportionately exposed to environmental risks, as are workers in unhealthy occupations.
according to the recommendations of the un high level panel on threats, challenges and change, hunger and poverty along with the hiv epidemic and environmental degradation, constitute a threat to world security, over and above the traditional threats facing humanity at present (eg terrorism).
sustainable development and social justice make sense not only when the overall indicator of economic and human well-being is increased, but also when social cohesion is promoted.
firstly, the president of the european parliament should request the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to send a small delegation immediately to visit the imprisoned medical workers in libya and to see colonel gaddafi and convey to him the strong wish of parliament that these medical workers are pardoned and released immediately.
you are right that we cannot, on the basis of our own treaty, question a potential member state’s right to have recourse to nuclear energy if it plans and builds a nuclear energy plant on the basis of all the rules and regulations and respects nuclear security.
their pollution affects rivers, lakes and precious ecosystems, raises the cost of drinking water and threatens its security of supply.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of groundwater is not affected by pollution.
we need a proposal that protects against pollution with defined criteria and limits, and member states should be obliged to make periodic reports on the state of their waters and the measures they have taken to ensure their effectiveness.
according to the european environment agency, 87% of european groundwater does not meet the criteria for nitrates, and 10 out of 11 countries report a risk of water contamination from herbicides.
amendments nos 96 and 98 introduce groundwater protection areas, while amendments nos 95 and 100 call for further research into this ecosystem, and i therefore urge you to vote for them.
finally, i agree with the rapporteur that parliament must stick to its views, especially after the vote in the committee on the environment, and i ask you to show by your vote that european citizens deserve the best possible quality of bathing water.
unfortunately, the excesses in the measures adopted through the action plan allow the conservative forces to justify measures that are anything but protective of a safe environment.
the majority of the measures taken by the european union in the fight against terrorism are based primarily on the need to create a climate of security.
but in no case can they be guaranteed on the basis of the interests of capital, the control of the conscience of the citizens and the strengthening of the climate of fear and insecurity which is the result of excessive controls and the lowering of the bar in the field of human rights.
in fact, we must make every reasonable effort to reduce emissions of so-called polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in order to protect health and the environment.
however, these particular hydrocarbons are part of the supplementary oils used in the production of tyres and thus cause health and environmental problems.
in the light of the protection of public health and the environment, but also of public safety and the proper functioning of the internal market, and after consulting both the commission and the council, the tyre and oil industry and non-governmental organisations, i have tried to draw up a balanced report, which has been amended accordingly by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
more specifically, as regards the transitional period considered necessary for the development of new types of tyres with dilution oils containing the minimum amount of the substances of concern, it is proposed to extend it until 1 january 2010. here, it should be noted that for environmental reasons we decided to take into account the date of manufacture of the tyre, which is engraved on the tyre itself.
that is because destroying the tyres that will remain in stock is also harmful, and perhaps even more harmful to the environment, while of course we are helping the industry to dispose of this stock.
in conclusion, i would like to thank both the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, the staff secretary of the committee on the environment and the council for its constructive proposals and cooperation so that we can deal with this matter at first reading.
concerning the substance of the directive, with the compromise amendments, this will to a very large degree achieve the intended aims, i.e., to effect, as soon as practicably possible, a reduction in the emission of carcinogenic tyre debris into the environment to an acceptable level, by restricting the marketing and use of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-rich extender oils and tyres.
that would be done by harmonising the rules on the marketing and use of extender oils and tyres containing these toxic substances, thus preserving and improving the conditions and functioning of the internal market, while making sure that a high degree of health and environmental protection is achieved.
it is thus imperative that measures to manage the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources are legislated for and implemented as soon as possible.
our shared objective is to achieve sustainability of fisheries in the mediterranean.
we owe this to our fishermen and also to the maintenance of a sustainable marine ecosystem to be able to support this activity.
we are making significant progress and we can accept certain other amendments to sensitise the regulation even further to the specificities of mediterranean fisheries, but without forgoing the fundamental principle of sustainability.
the criteria for determining the contribution of agriculture to the gross national product must not be the social balance between the urban and rural areas, the fight against police brutality and the protection of the environment.
i would also like to congratulate you on your contribution to the finding of a common position in the turkey-european union association council, which should be considered an achievement of yours, and to congratulate you personally, mr schmit, on your contribution to the efforts to find a package of proposals for cyprus which would form the basis on which to conduct, in a good climate, a dialogue between the two communities to solve our problem.
this new environment created by the uncontrolled entry of private capital into the market and by the rapid decline in the level of services provided has led to a decline in the degree of security since it is at the expense of companies.
we believe that all workers have the right to work and live in an environment of equality and social cohesion, and we stress, among other things, that immigrants are not workers or second-class citizens.
on the other hand, they are the source of many and varied problems, such as environmental pollution, traffic congestion, housing problems, crime and drug addiction, as well as social exclusion, migration and poverty.
the european union's 25 member states must therefore work together to develop and tackle the problems of urban centres in a sustainable way.
the second point i would like to make, and which is of major importance for member states with an agricultural economy, is that cities or regions are part of the regional territory, which requires sustainable urban development that must be carried out in harmony with the neighbouring rural areas.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions, and has recently launched a new programme for the protection of the environment.
the rapporteur also asks the conference of presidents of the european parliament to propose an amendment to annex vi to the european parliament's rules of procedure concerning the powers of the committee on regional development which would explicitly include the urban dimension, in addition to regional policy and cohesion policy, in its objectives and powers, taking into account the work of the other relevant committees on transport, environment, research, employment and social affairs, the internal market, culture, etc.
this is particularly important not only because it will increase the powers of the committee but also because it will send a message to the citizen that we care, we listen, we listen to everyday problems and we try to find sustainable solutions.
in conclusion, i would like to say that instead of admitting the inadequacy of sustainable policies, we are instead spreading the message that responsibility is due to a lack of support for an outdated practice, which is against the lisbon policy and not worth our efforts.
we need to disconnect the one term from the other and work, i repeat, together to make the vision of sustainable urban development a reality.
a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on shipments of waste is a very important piece of legislation which is much needed and is, unfortunately, long overdue.
this is evident from the fact that, at first reading, the european parliament adopted no less than 103 amendments, and, on this occasion, 90 amendments have been adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in my view, the most important item in the common position and recommendation for second reading is the choice of environment as the single legal base, thus highlighting that the main aim of the council is the environment, not – as some wanted and tried hard to achieve – the enhancement of trade in waste material.
i agree with the rapporteur that animal by-product waste should be included in order to ensure that such waste is shipped in an environmentally and hygienically correct and responsible fashion.
in conclusion, i, along with most members of the committee on the environment, i am sure, hope that the commission will facilitate this regulation by coming forward in due course with sensible and stringent proposals on the waste framework directive and with a strategy on waste prevention and recycling.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted by the fact that the european union is not able to take action on the environment, and that the commission is not able to take action on the environment.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new programme for the protection of the environment.
the european union is committed to continuing the enhanced support for the palestinian civil policing through eu corps, in order to help build the necessary security environment in gaza following israeli withdrawal, so as to allow exactly the kind of economic development that is necessary.
mr president, we all seem to agree that the decommissioning of nuclear power plants is necessary on safety and environmental grounds, but the real question is who should pay for it, and should this cost not be taken into account when planning new nuclear power plants in the future?
is it not fairer that countries which have benefited from nuclear energy production should themselves contribute far more significantly to decommissioning their nuclear power plants?
furthermore, would it not be fairer if that contribution came from eu countries which themselves benefit from nuclear energy production?
it is my strong view that member states which do not use nuclear energy should not pay for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in other member states.
it has also been used by britain, france, russia and china in nuclear tests, causing immense environmental damage.
we are creating a morbid climate of fear in the citizenry, which will lead to unpleasant developments in the future.
on the other hand, the respective parties should refrain from taking any step that would compromise the establishment of the climate of confidence that appears indispensable, if a solution is to be reached.