forest is crucially important in the eu's strategy for biological diversity, natura 2000 and in the eu's work to promote renewable energy and reduce the greenhouse effect.
given the forestry industry's great economic, social and environmental importance, what measures will the commission take in support of that industry in those areas of sweden affected by the storm?
what political tools will europe have left to enforce human rights, social, environmental and trade standards?
without a new write-down policy, without a favourable investment environment, without flexible legislation, without a new credit policy and tax relief in this area, we will not move forward.
and so we should create the right environment for these clusters to form.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12:00.
the next item is the oral question by mrs mechtild rothe, mr reino paasilinna, mr hannes swoboda, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, and mr dimitrios papadimoulis, on behalf of the group of the european united left - nordic green left, to the commission: forms of alternative energy (b6-0018/2005), the oral question by mrs rebecca harms, on behalf of the green group, by mr claude turmes, on behalf of the group of the european free alliance, by the commission: forms of alternative energy (b6-0157/2005) and the oral question by mrs lena ek, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, by the commission: forms of alternative energy (b6-0158/2005).
so, for example, in energy, the iter program, but my colleague talked about that.
the partnership's agenda ranges from the functioning of financial services to world agriculture, the fight against aids, water availability, global climate change, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the stabilisation of the international order.
the commission report was discussed in the committee on employment and social affairs and in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the commission proposes as main objectives high quality of care, wide availability and long-term financial sustainability without the need to draw on other public funds.
the second trend is the increasing strategic importance of the whole region, not least in relation to energy resources in countries such as turkmenistan, uzbekistan or kazakhstan.
the second area, however, which has not been discussed much here, is the promotion of regional cooperation, support for the countries of central asia in the fight against terrorism, in the fight against drug smuggling, support for energy cooperation, support for the use of water resources, for example.
uzbekistan, kazakhstan has energy resources, kyrgyzstan has water resources.
these are not only the result of china's reputed industriousness, but also of its minimal environmental and social standards, including child labor.
the sustainability of development on the planet, the values for which we regulate the european market, knowing that we are raising the cost of european production and thus reducing our competitiveness, and the citizens' confidence in integration mean that the union must be united and become a strong partner for the wto, on a par with japan, china and the usa.
in the course of the year, we have already learned the magic word most often used in the union, 'sustainable'.
if we are to create a truly sustainable budget that does not lead to further disappointment... (speaker breaking off)
the agenda includes the report by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the protection of minorities and anti-discrimination policies in an enlarged europe (2005/2008 (ini)) (a6-0140/2005).
the next item is the report by john bowis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on patient mobility and healthcare developments in the european union (2004/2148(ini)) (a6-0129/2005).
social integration in an environment where public services are being phased out, the high cost of public transport and its increasingly hollow network, the abolition of the nursery network and the reduction of day-care centres, the disappearance or reduction of out-of-school education with often high financial demands on parents, the deterioration of the position of trade unions associated with the effort to abolish the labour code, all these are manifestations of extreme liberal tendencies.
strong economic and employment growth is essential for the sustainability of the social protection system.
an accessible, quality and sustainable healthcare system will contribute not only to the fight against disease and vulnerability to social exclusion, but also to the preservation of a productive workforce.
the union must make progress in stabilising its institutional framework, reform its budget and focus its resources on areas that will enable us to survive in a global environment.
the cohesion fund pays for large-scale investment projects in the environment and transport sectors, and a strict application of the n+2 rule would seriously jeopardise the drawdown of this money, again especially in the new 10 countries which do not yet have sufficient experience with the implementation of the structural funds and the cohesion fund.
as for china, i fully share the view of the uk presidency that there is a need to strengthen global dialogue, that europe and china are global partners, that they must jointly tackle global challenges such as security, energy security, such as climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the result of the directive is that in the countries of the union we are supporting large groups of regulators, that we are supporting with subsidies untalented creators who would not survive in normal competition for viewers, that we are preserving an inefficient public television system, that we are financing european television channels with such a small number of viewers that the operation of the transmitters is a waste of electricity.
i would like to explain briefly my vote on the report by jonas sjöstedt - management of waste from extractive industries.
as regards economic risks, the question of excessive economic dependence on tourism, environmental risks, the depletion of drinking and drinking water resources in many countries, the unresolved issue of waste management, whether solid or liquid, etc.
we should stop dreaming of cure-all renewable energy sources and remain realistic.
we must not step up our efforts to achieve tax harmonisation at a supranational level and we must not promote tax incentives that would result in lower rates of taxation for individual segments of the energy or oil industry.
india and the eu are also destined to work together on the environment, agriculture, human rights, the millennium development goals, and the fight against poverty.
it also called on the commission to abandon the practice of circumventing the ban on state subsidies to exporting companies, to prevent commercial piracy and to take joint responsibility for the management of waste and the remediation of environmental damage.
no-one denies the iranian right to nuclear energy for civilian use.
we have to blame a damaging, totalitarian, oppressive regime which is not able to prove that it is going to use its nuclear energy for civilian purposes only.
if we are to achieve the lisbon objectives of sustainable, knowledge-based growth and more and better jobs, strengthening social cohesion, promoting equal opportunities, we cannot ignore one of their key factors, namely human resources.
this is because most of us understand that the proposed integrated action programme is one of the necessary steps to contribute to the development of the european union as a mature knowledge-based society with sustainable economic growth, more and better jobs, greater cohesion and culture.
the european union is nominally based on a number of fundamental principles, including the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, but perhaps even more important are the european social model, non-interference in the internal affairs of the member states, solidarity and, last but not least, the emphasis on the environment.
i am aware that the welfare state and respect for environmental standards are among the core values of the european union, values which this community places above the quality of the foundations of society, above models in which these values are not recognised and where unbridled liberalism prevails over social cohesion.
particular attention should be paid to the application of minimum standards in the social and environmental fields.
a fundamental and fundamental issue before democratic elections is in particular a correct environment for opposition parties and politicians.
as a member of the committee on the environment, but particularly as a doctor, i would like to express my support for the new regulation, the reach regulation on chemicals in its effective form.
many chemicals have not been studied for their long-term effects on humans or the environment.
reach is not a matter of left and right, it is a matter of interests, of the lisbon strategy keeping the economic, social and environmental dimensions in balance.
commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the bohunice nuclear power plant, we are faced with the fact that the newly acceding country has committed itself to shutting down one of its vital energy sources.
it is no secret that the commitment to close bohunice was undertaken by slovakia under a certain international pressure, but the government of the time was guided by the primary objective of joining the union and wants to fulfill its commitment, even though this is not beneficial for the slovak economy and will get into a situation where it will have to import energy at ever increasing prices.
the main thing is that it can be exploited, but only in a free market environment that is flexible and where it pays to work.
it's science and research, it's investment in our universities, energy policy, global security, common foreign security policy.
if we look at the energy situation, for example, europe is increasingly dependent on one resource, now at 65%, and that resource is in areas that are very unstable, whether it is the post-soviet space or the middle east.
we need a common energy policy, a common foreign and security policy, but above all we need money to finance these common policies.
the next item is the report by mrs karin scheele, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the introduction of humane trapping standards for certain animal species (com (2004) 0532 - c6-0100/2005 - 2004/0183 (cod)) (a6-0304/2005).
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on the common position of the council on the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services and repealing council directive 93/76/eec (10721/3/2005 - c6-0298/2005 - 2003/0300 ((cod)) by the committee on industry, research and energy (rapporteur: mechtild rothe) (a6-0343/2005).
on the contrary, i believe that it is time to start negotiations on ensuring energy security, especially in the supply of electricity to the whole region, by shutting down several units of the kozloduy power plant, as my green colleague mentioned.