i would first like to thank you, mr president, for the opportunity to discuss with you tonight the outcome of the 10th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, which took place in buenos aires last month.
i should first of all like to say that the chairman of the committee on the environment, mr florenz, and seven other members were present, and their participation was very important, and they supported us, helped us, advised us during the negotiations, until the very last moment, i might say.
it's a first step, i would say hesitant, but in any case, a first step to negotiate, to discuss what happens after 2012 about the effects of climate change.
another very important point is the agreement on a five-year programme for the adaptation of developing countries to the needs of climate change.
it is one of the mechanisms provided for by the kyoto protocol, which is becoming more important with the start of the application of the protocol and the operation of the carbon dioxide trading system in the european union, and we are going to have many applications to the executive office in bonn for approvals and therefore needed support.
i think it was important that the european union presented the carbon dioxide trading system, which has now officially started to operate on 1 january.
the presentation highlighted and confirmed the european union's leading role in climate change and generated a lot of interest.
in conclusion, the debate we had in buenos aires and its results, which are positive on the whole, gave us the opportunity to intensify the debate within the european union on what will happen after 2012. we have two choices: one was the council of ministers on 20 december, which reaffirmed the european union's commitment to a global warming of no more than 2 degrees celsius in the coming years and the need for targets to be set for the increase in emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
the second is the spring european council, to which the commission will contribute two documents: a working report on the costs and benefits of taking action or not taking action on climate change and a commission communication on the assessment of the strategies needed for the period after 2012 and what we will do until then.
i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the dutch president-in-office of the council, who, with the help of your activities, commissioner, has really brought together these three different institutions in europe into one team, with the result that europe, alongside the euro, can play an important role in environmental and climate policy at world level in the future.
the environment agency in copenhagen made it clear a few weeks ago that we were on the right track with our instruments, and you just mentioned implementation.
that is why it is right, commissioner, that you mention energy saving measures in europe.
it is right if you want to achieve greater energy efficiency, and we must of course also promote renewable energy with a certain amount of caution.
natural changes in the world's climate have been occurring for millions of years.
a majority of the scientists quoted in these months believe that humans are adding to the climate of our planet, primarily by emitting carbon dioxide.
they say it could be that that exact 3% of the total co2 that humans emit is affecting the climate on our planet.
so, with the current state of knowledge, we have to be careful: to use energy more efficiently, and at the same time reduce co2 emissions worldwide.
this is also possible through more efficient use of energy and further development of renewable energy sources and nuclear energy.
in 2004, nuclear power plants worldwide avoided some 2.5 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions in the global energy mix.
but how resilient is our current understanding of climate change?
is there any additional human-caused climate change at all?
how much is the climate affected by the varying intensity of the sun's radiation?
what is the effect of the greenhouse gas water vapour?
what other influences are there on the climate?
many models suggest a man-made greenhouse effect.
as i said, ladies and gentlemen, we must therefore be careful and reduce co2 emissions as much as possible.
but at the same time we must urgently invest more in climate research and give our support to those researchers who are not in the mainstream.
today, the younger generation treat as a right the idea of a zone of free movement, in the same way that they expect the union to ensure a clean environment and cross-border cooperation on public health.
the 21st century presents europeans with enormous challenges: globalisation of the economy and financial flows, international terrorism, climate change and disasters, migration flows.
article 3 of the constitution commits the union to contribute to peace, security and sustainable development on earth.
the constitution makes great progress in european integration and makes the european union more sustainable overall.
the amsterdam treaty is the first to give us codecision in the fields of the environment, consumer protection and food safety.
can the commission state whether this approach, which seems to be aimed primarily at improving the security of europe rather than providing sustainable solutions for the development of the third world, is consistent with the development agenda of the developing countries and with article 177 of the treaty, and with the objectives of the united nations millennium project?
fifth, water: the water initiative protecting sustainable development.
we must not put environmental protection and ecology in competition with the economy, but we must find a sensible balance between the two.
the general 'objectives of the union' do indeed make a flattering reference to a 'highly competitive social market economy aiming at full employment and social progress, as well as a high level of environmental protection and improvement of the quality of the environment'.
we have many tasks ahead of us, think of global warming, think of the conflict between israel and palestine, think of the taming of the mullah regime in iran, but also think of fighting hunger and disease.
the common interest is that we want to create security: foreign security, the fight against terrorism and many other things, such as the major environmental problems to be solved.
fifth, a new world bank-imf sustainability framework recognises the inadequacy of existing debt relief efforts.
the new framework will: first, set indicative debt burden thresholds that are country-specific; second, take account of external shocks; third, ensure greater transparency and dialogue in assessing that sustainability.
that is what the new sustainability framework is all about.
that ensure the sustainability of these countries in the long run are crucial.
the reason given is that iran has now accepted the international atomic energy agency's controls and has temporarily stopped uranium enrichment.
unemployment causes poverty, and poverty is the source of social, health and environmental problems.
only a society that is characterised by these qualities can also achieve ambitious social and environmental goals.
we are eagerly awaiting the commission's review of the proposal put forward by your neighbour to the left, mrs wallström, when she was environment commissioner, that this mammoth project, reach, which does not strengthen the competitiveness of europe but the competitiveness of industries outside the european union, should be reviewed.
mr president of the commission, think of renewable energy sources, which, if properly supported, would, in my view, be a good alternative source of income for our farmers.
i would therefore ask you, commissioner, and in particular you, mr high commissioner, to make sure that the quartet is not just a body for writing papers and holding talks, but that the quartet, as a body at its highest level, appears personally and collectively in the middle east to say that this is not just any agenda, but that it is the full commitment of the entire international community; the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment.
their social integration is of the utmost relevance for a confident resistance to anti-semitic positions in their own social environment.
these are the conditions for creating a safe environment for israel as well.
yes, we need competition but in line with the gothenburg criteria, to achieve the lowest possible unemployment, high consumer protection, social security for citizens in a healthy environment, social cohesion through solidarity and sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, which is still needed in the european union, for example in the areas of biodiversity, waste prevention and treatment and the sustainable use of resources.
increase your influence on climate change, because the us, china, india and brazil need to be more involved!
this would be the right way for the european union, and this would promote sustainable development and this would create jobs, and not continue or reinforce the old, long-outdated ways that have proved to be wrong.
but on the other hand, it is a given that without a functioning economy, there can be no sound social policy and no sound environmental policy.
we therefore support and think it very sensible that the issue of debt relief has played such a central role, and we believe that full debt relief should be made available to those countries which are moving towards democracy and which are committed to establishing a sustainable and also free economy.
environmental issues were also on the agenda.
the world economic forum proposed three priorities: reducing greenhouse gases, increasing funding for the poorest countries and eliminating trade barriers within the wto.
this communication will cover most of the issues covered by the two reports under discussion today and will deal with the evaluation of justice, the training of judges, the harmonization of certain procedural rules and, in this connection, i would also like to add that we will be presenting a green paper on the presumption of innocence later this year: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we badly need economic growth because we have environmental and social welfare objectives that we rightly believe are essential within our culture.
i agree that it is important to improve the functioning of the energy market.
in close cooperation with our energy colleagues, we are investigating the current status of the market.
compensation for services of general economic interest which have only a minor impact on the internal market is very often provided in a very limited, local environment.
the current proposals respond to the new environment arising from the altmark case.
the text is as follows: the ep recommends that member states implement the long-needed structural reforms to make improving the investment climate a prerequisite for economic growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with what mrs ries said at the end, that the relationship between the environment and health is a particularly important priority for the european commission and europe.
in fact, having long recognized that environmental protection contributes to better health, we have already done a tremendous amount of work in this area.
the upcoming environmental and other legislation, including the reach proposals as well as measures to be taken under the thematic strategies, will further contribute to solving outstanding problems.
on current issues, much effort is being made to strengthen the european union's policies aimed at better protecting health and the environment and this is something that will certainly continue.
this will address any shortcomings and provide a more effective, focused and cost-effective future environmental policy.
our common objective is to promote stronger european measures to better protect the health and the environment of all europeans, of europe and of the world.
the present action plan for the environment and health 2004-2010 together with the proposals of our rapporteur, mrs ries, are very ambitious.
the numerous projects can significantly improve our knowledge of the environmental impact on health and thus give our legislative process a stronger scientific basis.
certainly some projects can be completed by 2010. i am thinking, for example, of improved coordination between the member states in the field of environment and health; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
however, most of the actions will continue beyond 2010. the human-environment relationship is subject to constant change and very often requires new actions and reactions.
the present report on the environment and health action plan is too focused on chemicals.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of chemicals.
we try to do environmental protection with a full-blown mentality, forgetting that the development of an open society always comes with risks.
the primary objective of environmental policy should not be to exclude risks but to identify and eliminate hazards.
the health risks of tobacco smoke should not be underestimated, but to equate tobacco smoke with substances such as benzene or asbestos is nothing less than ecological populism.
in particular, the deregulation of labour markets, the adjustment of social systems to demographic needs, the simplification of tax systems, combining tax cuts and a change in the bases of tax assessment and the abolition of subsidies, so as to bring about an improvement in the investment climate as a prerequisite for economic growth.
the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety and many ngos see the european union's natura 2000 programme as being in serious danger.
i am aware that as environment commissioner you are in the continuity of the european institution 'commission'.
the commission has already said that the protection of biodiversity is not a genuine rural policy.
it is easy to imagine that in a field as difficult as environmental protection, the conditions vary from one area to another and therefore the measures to be taken vary.
it is not acceptable that an increase in the fifg compensation allocation should be at the expense of agricultural and environmental measures or other rural development programmes.
the next item is the report by mrs frédérique ries (a6-0008/2005) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the environment and health action plan 2004-2010 (ini 2004/2132).
we may have to spell scale now as stopping caring about legislating for the environment.
that there is no single measure to really reduce the burden on the environment and on health, especially that of children.
but what is the poor policeman to do in palermo, bordeaux, madrid or elsewhere, when he is presented at the traffic control with a shredded piece of waste paper with which no one can do anything?
with all due respect, somehow the pollution is coming.
the environmental organisation oceania estimates that 3,000 illegal discharges take place in european waters every year.
the prosecution and punishment of criminal marine pollution must not fail because of national vanities.
the council's framework decision commits itself to applying harsh penalties to criminal marine pollution: fines, imprisonment, prohibition of economic activity.
it is not understandable, for example, that you are still allowed to insure against fines for marine pollution.
by making it possible to plan journeys more precisely, to adapt more easily to traffic conditions and to navigability conditions, river information services lead to a reduction in fuel consumption and thus have an impact on the reduction of emissions.
in addition, river information services offer the possibility of controlling the transport of dangerous goods and thus responding adequately in the event of accidents and possible ecological damage.
ris means added value in ecological, economic and transport policy terms.
how does it intend to deal with the excessive number of objectives and priorities, the lack of intrinsic link between objectives and means, and the lack of mechanisms for effective implementation, and how does it intend to link economic development, social cohesion and environmental sustainability?
there are three pillars in the lisbon strategy: there is indeed the pillar which can be called the competitiveness or economic pillar, there is the social pillar and there is the environmental pillar.
mr president, you know that europe has tried to introduce the environmental dimension into the wto debate, in addition to the question of social rights, without much success - i must admit - because of the opposition of a number of developing countries.
according to these figures, we have a steel market of 1 billion tonnes worldwide, 1.2 million tonnes are produced internally, which is just over 1 per mille of world steel production, and 70,000 tonnes of electrical tape, and this electrical tape is about: it has made losses which are justified not only in italy but also in the legislation of the european union: high energy costs, environmental legislation.
we must simplify procedures, reduce bureaucracy and reduce waste.
that is why it is crucial to create a better environment for research and development.
environment is crucial.
if we want to achieve our goal, we need to create an environment in which companies will work, compete and carry out their research and development activities in europe.
if we are using these funds for road, rail and environmental infrastructure, we could and should use them for the development of research infrastructure as well.
i would encourage you to adopt the recommendation submitted by the committee on industry, research and energy, as this represents the best way to promote our common objectives: a well-functioning internal market for gas, to the benefit of the consumers and the competitiveness of europe.
but let me get to the point: we do not want competition for the sake of competition, either in the energy markets or in other markets.
for this common market and to be able to exploit these efficiency gains, we need the opening up of the national submarkets towards an integrated internal energy market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
it is good that we are also discussing renewable energy in this newly elected parliament.
another question is: there are some companies that are already doing a lot in the field of renewable energy, and others that are not yet doing so, and if you treat both equally, it is not differentiated enough.
we must create the right conditions, as politicians in europe and at national level, so that those who invest heavily in renewable energy will find good conditions and therefore be given additional incentives.
i agree that renewable energy is an important part of a strategy to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and help us meet the kyoto target.
another important area is energy efficiency, and we believe that nuclear energy should also make a contribution.
but i would like to put one last thought to the commissioner and to my colleagues: i believe that we must set new priorities in the field of renewable energy.
solar energy for heating purposes.
the commission is moving in the right direction in tackling this issue and improving the framework conditions in europe for the use of solar energy for heating purposes and for the use of biomass in general.
the commissioner has given a factual answer and has taken the opportunity to make some points of departure on his prospects for a sound energy policy.
but now to use the windfall profits of the energy and oil companies as an excuse to distract from one's own responsibility for renewable energy is a mistake which i think the socialists and communists here must take responsibility for.
we must remain on the ground where we have the means to act, in the security of energy supplies, in the development of alternative forms of energy, in the promotion of research, in the overall framework.
we are counting on them to take responsibility for the security of energy supply.
these often come from the women's immediate environment.
the npt review conference will have to find a balance between the three pillars of non-proliferation, nuclear disarmament and the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
we hope that this will result in more resources to promote the european union's actions in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation of wmd during the period 2007-2013. as regards the npt in particular, this financial means should support actions aimed at strengthening the three pillars of the treaty: non-proliferation, disarmament and cooperation in the safe and peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of nuclear energy.
we, the european union, want iran to move within the framework of the international atomic energy agency and to meet its demands.
as someone who personally considers the peaceful use of nuclear energy to be something positive, i am not fundamentally opposed to a country using nuclear energy, as long as it is ensured that the highest possible safety standards are guaranteed and that the cycle of uranium enrichment for weapons production remains under international control and thus avoids iran.
if we can really make it clear to iran that there is a link between the partnership and cooperation agreements on the one hand and compliance with what the international community demands in terms of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, and that this link cannot be broken, then we can reach a conclusion.
the enlarged eu depends on imported energy for 50% of its needs and is increasingly dependent on external energy sources.
in this respect it is important to know that russia has always been a completely reliable energy supplier to the eu.
the eu-russia energy dialogue has established a good relationship in the energy field, and the commission believes that russia will be the most important and reliable energy supplier to the eu for the foreseeable future.
notwithstanding this, however, the community needs to ensure diversity of supply and make maximum use of its own indigenous energy resources.
such a policy makes sense in terms of security of supply, sustainable development and the pursuit of our lisbon objectives.
for these reasons the new commission will be pursuing the following energy priorities: first, energy efficiency.
a simple comparison of the way in which the different eu member states have addressed energy efficiency will show the possibilities for energy savings, which will contribute significantly to meeting the eu’s kyoto targets.
this spring i will present a green paper on energy efficiency, outlining the concrete measures to be taken at community, national, regional and local level that will lead to those savings.
i will closely monitor the situation so that there is a clear move towards achieving by 2010 the target of 12% of the union’s overall energy consumption coming from renewable sources.
finally, i should like to mention establishing and improving energy dialogues with a wide range of energy producers, consumers and transit countries.
in addition to this, and to ensure that these policies fully meet this challenge, it is clear that a wide public debate should take place on increasing eu external energy dependency.
for this reason the commission intends to adopt by the end of this year a new green paper on security of the eu energy supply, with the aim of promoting a large public debate.
with regard to energy supplies from russia, i come from a country that does not have the easiest of relations with russia.
but on evaluating all the energy resources supplied from russia, i discovered a continuous flow of energy resources.
so, from the point of view of energy flows, russia has been a very reliable partner.
as for concerns about russia buying energy sectors in other countries, if the laws permit it, then this is completely legal.
and the other thing that was also there was this: we have liberalized downstream, but upstream we still have the big three, namely algeria, russia and norway, from which we get our gas and a lot of our energy.
i recently met with the lithuanian foreign affairs minister and he confirmed that there are no concerns as regards the impact that closing ignalina will have on energy production in lithuania.
as the commission has proposed, we must give this strategy a new start by focusing our action on achieving stronger and more sustainable growth and creating more and better jobs.
the objective of growth and jobs must be pursued through synergies to be developed between the three dimensions of the strategy: the economic, the social and the environmental.
on the environment, the european council should underline the contribution of environmental policy to growth and employment and confirm the need to integrate environmental considerations into the lisbon process.
the european council will also be discussing the commission's communication on the sustainable development strategy, but i will come back to it later, because it is a separate item on the council's agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a month ago at the conference of presidents i presented our ideas for a partnership for sustainable growth and employment, thus giving a new impetus to the lisbon strategy.
we must recognise that appropriate environmental policies can produce results with a double benefit in terms of jobs and ensuring sustainable growth, and in a context of economic stability we must improve the capacity of our companies, from the largest to the smallest and medium-sized, to create new and better jobs.
this goal of sustainable development underpins the lisbon strategy as it does the action of the union in every area.
these are broad economic, social and environmental objectives.
our new social agenda, our review of sustainable development and our action on climate change show the commission's commitment to moving ahead across a wide range of areas.
this is not at all in contradiction with our social and environmental policy.
without growth, without a dynamic economy, there will be no sustainable development; we will not foster convergence between regions and our social and environmental goals will slip out of reach.
however, i fully accept that lasting growth relies, in turn, on parallel progress on cohesion, our social agenda and addressing unsustainable and damaging environmental trends.
and we should not be too shy to make it clear that something which is produced and offered in europe can claim not only technological and qualitative excellence but also certain european values, such as the idea that our products and services are not produced with ruthless exploitation of the environment and human rights.
i am firmly convinced that such a european philosophy of economic policy will also create lasting competitive advantages, because the other dynamic regions of the world will not escape the fact that people want higher environmental and social standards.
it is crucial that we develop a growth-oriented macroeconomic environment, that we have a stable currency and dynamic economic and labour market developments and that we reduce public debt.
this is important to us, as are its three points: better legislation, the strengthening of small and mediumsized enterprises and an active industrial policy which safeguards industrial jobs while at the same time improving environmental standards, the quality of our products and thus export and competitiveness.
all three elements, both the growth and labour market aspect and the areas of social and environmental policy, have been addressed in an appropriate framework, with particular emphasis in my group on making clear the link between these two pillars.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of public procurement, competition and the environment.
and growth and employment are the prerequisites for achieving the ambitious social and environmental objectives which we all support, as expressed in the resolution.
as an environment and energy policy-maker, i was very pleased to see that many of the general building blocks of sustainability have been incorporated into this draft, which is being adopted today.
so i think that our rejection, the green's rejection, is concrete, and we will continue the debate on the future of social justice, ecological reason and innovation with you in the coming months on the basis of these concrete projects.
the lisbon strategy must not mean competition for the highest incomes, but competition for highly qualified jobs, excellent education and training, quality of products, high environmental standards and high consumer protection.
if we want to become the world's strongest economic region by 2010, we must give priority to the social and ecological european union.
are we able to make economic, technological leaps into the new age and at the same time produce the new generation of products with the highest and highest environmental standards?
in future, we must ensure that the economic, ecological and social objectives of the lisbon strategy are not in conflict with each other, but rather that they are all subordinated to the objective of the lisbon strategy.
(the sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the next item is the report by mrs pia elda locatelli (a6-0046/2005) on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on eu funding, science and technology the guidelines for the european union's research funding [2004/2150 (ini) ].
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the next item is the report (a6-0049/2005) by mrs margrete auken, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the financing of natura 2000.
i saw you too late earlier, ma'am.
we therefore need to accept that sugar production should be concentrated in the areas where it has a sustainable long-term perspective.
in many regions of europe, sustainable sugar beet cultivation and, in the peripheral regions, sugar cane production would disappear altogether.
the reform would benefit a few large producers, such as brazil, which, unlike the eu, consistently produces with very low environmental and social standards.
our environmental organizations would cry out if in europe, as in brazil, whole rivers were pumped dry for irrigation agriculture, if hundreds of thousands of hectares of land were burned and the animals living on these areas had no chance of escaping the fire.
the council of agriculture ministers of the european union, at its meeting on 18 november 1997, defined the multifunctional tasks of european agriculture as follows: 'the council believes that european agriculture must be a multifunctional, sustainable and competitive economic sector, spread over the whole of europe.
it must be able to maintain the landscape, preserve natural spaces, make a significant contribution to the vitality of the countryside and meet consumer concerns and requirements in terms of food quality and safety, the environment and animal welfare.'
we therefore call for the production of imported sugar to be subject to the same social and environmental standards as the production of sugar in the eu.
it must be possible, from the many statements made today, to draw up a legislative proposal which will make sustainable sugar production possible here as well as in the so-called third world.
the brazilian government is working to introduce social and environmental standards here.
the financing of natura 2000 must not be entirely at the expense of other agricultural and environmental measures or other rural development programmes.
instead of putting money into management, bureaucracy and administration, we need to fund efficient projects that serve the environment and deliver tangible results.
on the other hand, the respective parties should refrain from taking any steps that would compromise the establishment of a climate of confidence, which appears indispensable if a solution is to be reached.
yes, i want to discuss the legal basis, but i said, "let's not waste too much time discussing it out of sight, while criminals make a lot of fun of the legal basis and take advantage of the lack of interconnections and the lack of a number of clearly regulated mechanisms".
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is not happy, but is generally satisfied with the implementation of the 2003 budget for the environment, public health and food safety.
the european environment agency, the agency for the evaluation of medicinal products and the food safety agency have done a solid and sensible job in our view.
in this context, we are shocked by the threats against representatives of environmental ngos and citizens' initiatives.
the environmental problems of the kosloduy and belene nuclear power stations will be discussed by my colleague rebecca harms.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this will only be possible if we pursue a policy which puts europe at the forefront of environmental, economic and technological progress in all areas.
this is a situation which is not sustainable in the long term and is also why, for the overall stability of our social systems, we need to expand the supply and make it easier for people who are already older to stay in the labour market.
the reform achieved at the march european council is basically more emphasis on countercyclical policies in good times of the cycle, more emphasis on multilateral surveillance of economic policies that are carried out in good times of the cycle, more attention to budgetary surveillance on medium and long-term sustainability problems and challenges and, as a trade-off, as a trade-off, with that increased attention to countercyclical policies and policies aimed at improving sustainability, more flexibility in the application of the treaty instruments, which remain in the treaty for enhanced budgetary surveillance in excessive deficit procedures.
moreover, i can tell you, madam president, that it will be applied with rigor, but with greater efficiency, because the new stability and growth pact will allow for better coordination and greater compatibility between budgetary surveillance policies and growth policies, as well as the introduction of structural reforms, such as those contained in the lisbon strategy, to improve the growth potential and the sustainability of our growth model and, therefore, its capacity to generate employment and to increase social cohesion.
the commission cannot, therefore, table the legislative proposal before june or july 2005. the commission will set up a biomass action plan for the second half of 2005. this plan will contain a table and make it quite clear how to achieve the eu targets for renewable energies.
question no 45 by mr staes (h-0164/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: competition rules and state aid in the nuclear power sectoron 22 september 2004, the commission announced that it would approve the uk government's assistance of eur 6 billion in the restructuring of the energy company british energy.
can the commission state what the amount in the second case might be and whether it shares the view that state aid should actually be internalised in the cost price of nuclear energy and not be borne by the taxpayer?
both the commission’s final decision on the restructuring of british energy and its decision to open proceedings on the nuclear decommissioning authority make it clear that under the polluter pays principle, operators of nuclear stations bear the primary responsibility for the payment of the management of their waste and other nuclear liabilities, including planned decommissioning.
in the british energy case, for instance, the polluter pays principle had to be reconciled with the need to preserve nuclear safety, which is also, as you know, a major community objective enshrined in the euratom treaty.
question no 49 by mr papadimoulis (h-0163/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: disposal of toxic and hazardous waste in greecein greece, there is scant information on the disposal of toxic and hazardous waste, including clinical waste, regardless of the risk to public health and the environment.
in view of the infringement of directive 91/689/eec oj l 377, 31.12.1991, p. 20 (article 8 (3)) and the judgment of the european court of justice of 13 june 2002 (case c-33/01) the commission is asked whether greece has established tables or criteria on the basis of which waste is eligible for a particular category of landfill and, if so, whether and when this data has been transmitted to the commission.
does the commission know how much toxic and hazardous waste is produced in greece each year, where it ends up, whether it is temporarily stored, incinerated, sent to landfill or for final disposal in other countries and, if so, to which countries it is exported?
in 1998, the quantities were 379 000 tonnes of waste, in 1999 376 000, in 2000 391 000 and at approximately these levels until 2003. until then, we have evidence.
of course, according to the community directive, if the waste is temporarily stored for more than a year, then this area must be classified as a landfill (a landfill site) and comply with the relevant conditions, which is not the case with the greek authorities, and that is why, as i said, the relevant procedures have been initiated.
significant steps have been taken by the commission to support a better knowledge of the pressures on the environmental status of european waters through regular monitoring; reporting exercises; exchange of technical information and best practices with regard to agriculture and their impact on nutrient losses; and tools for measuring, modelling and forecasting their impact on water quality.
personally, i do not foresee that the eu will govern kosovo as the successor to unmik, as this would contradict our policy of building capacity and sustainability in partner countries with whom we hope one day to negotiate.
question no 62 by mr panagiotis beglitis (h-0213/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: construction and operation of three nuclear power plants in turkey a recent article in the turkish daily radikal reports on turkey's energy programme and the turkish government's intention to build three nuclear power plants to be operational in 2012, starting with the planned power plant in the konya region.
we therefore have a responsibility to continue it in a meaningful and sustainable way.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products and amending council directive 92/42/eec and directives 96/57/ec and 2000/55/ec of the european parliament and of the council (11414/1/2004 c6-0246/2004 2003/0172 ((cod)) (rapporteur: frédérique ries) (a6-0057/2005).
i believe this directive will deliver long-lasting benefits to consumers, and to the environment, by lowering our energy consumption and by producing more environmentally-sound products.
the eco-design directive will also help eu industry to face worldwide challenges related to the environmental improvement of its products.
i refer in particular to the compromise amendments affecting articles 12 and 13. these changes will assure a high level of environmental protection when setting eco-design requirements and introduce additional measures in favour of smes and to facilitate market surveillance.
i am particularly satisfied that suitable wording was found to put a focus on the need to improve the energy efficiency of products, while still taking account of the integrated approach promoted by the directive.
i have already made clear that energy efficiency is one of my main priorities.
the eco-design framework is one of the most efficient tools we could use to reduce energy consumption and mitigate climate change.
we have achieved a good result and we can make a great deal of progress for the environment.
the commission, after consulting industry and environmental organisations, has estimated the potential of this directive to reduce co2 emissions to 180 million tonnes.
but we have set ambitious targets for the environment, and i'm particularly pleased that we've made reducing standby losses a top priority because there's a huge waste of energy here, and it's very easy to stop this waste of energy.
in the end, it will not be the protection of the environment through less resource consumption, but fewer companies and fewer jobs in the electronics and electrical engineering industries.
the best available technology - also from an environmental point of view - will only be found if we do not impede competition.
the present directive is not very far from a planned economic instrument, in particular because of the top-runner approach, the pre-product controls and the ecological balances.
i am glad that the environment committee has removed the requirement to draw up environmental reports for the whole life cycle of a product from the directive.
mrs mcavan, i sympathise with you, because for 15 years i too have been debating environmental legislation during the night sittings.
of course, we have refocused the lisbon strategy on growth and competitiveness, but we have not abandoned its social and environmental dimensions.
they want to be able to have a good education for their children; they want to have at their disposal services of general interest and efficient public services; they want to have decent pensions; they want to be able to grow in a healthy environment.
we, mr president, wanted to clarify the quibble that had been created in recent years, because we wanted to show by what we did that there is a difference between the sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy.
it is wrong to claim that sustainable development is the third pillar of the lisbon strategy, since sustainable development is a horizontal concept that affects all other policies and therefore concerns everything that falls under the lisbon strategy, such as the environment, fisheries, agriculture, public finances, social security.
sustainable development is therefore what we call an overarching principle which must be respected in the implementation of all the policies the european union is seeking to implement.
the presidency will take the initiative to ensure that the june european council adopts a declaration on the guiding principles of sustainable development, which will serve as a basis for the renewal of the sustainable development strategy adopted by the gothenburg european council in 2001. we have looked at, on the basis of a decision taken by the environment ministers, all the policies that will have to be taken into account when it comes to raising the subject of climate change.
the union will now need to develop a medium- and long-term strategy to combat climate change, which will have to be compatible with the objective of a global annual temperature increase of no more than 2 degrees celsius compared to pre-industrial levels.
given the global emissions reductions required, joint efforts will be required by all countries in the coming decades.
the union considers that reduction profiles of the order of 15 to 30% by 2020 should be considered for the group of developed countries, compared with the kyoto reference values, and beyond that, in the spirit of the conclusions of the council of environment ministers, reductions of the order of 60 to 80% by 2050. we have discussed a number of issues relating to external relations at the brussels european council.
we have put this strategy on track by setting clear objectives - growth and employment - targeted and effective actions and simplified instruments, while respecting, of course, the union's permanent objectives, including sustainable development.
the refocusing of the strategy on growth and employment, in the framework of sustainable development, has been largely supported.
the full range of national and community resources in the three dimensions - economic, social and environmental - must be used to achieve these objectives.
the european council provided the necessary clarification on the lisbon objectives and the link with the sustainable development strategy.
the third important question of the european council was sustainable development.
i am pleased that the conclusions of the spring european council confirmed the importance of the sustainable development strategy while clarifying that the lisbon strategy contributes to the wider objective of sustainable development.
in this context, it is also important to note that the european council has recognised the importance of the issue of climate change, confirming in particular that the increase in the annual global temperature must not exceed 2 degrees centigrade compared to the pre-industrial era.
i also note with satisfaction the positive reception of the commission's communication 'conquering climate change' and the invitation to it to continue its analysis of the benefits and costs of co2 reduction strategies.
this will help the union to develop a medium and longterm strategy for the industrialised countries to reduce emissions by 15-30% by 2020. the commission intends to continue its action through the second phase of the european programme on climate change.
the european council expects the adoption of a declaration on the guiding principles of sustainable development in june and plans to examine the revision of the sustainable development strategy in the second half of this year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, you will agree with us that the outcome of the spring european council is an excellent basis for moving towards a renewal of the union's economy in the wider context of sustainable development.
we stand with all those who are determined to reduce emissions.
in the last few years, we have been putting the weight of the social democrats on sustainable development and climate change in our demands for europe's role in the world.
the european community is the only community that can do this: the economic, monetary, social and cultural community, the community which can develop europe as a force, as a community for sustainable development and for the reduction of environmental risks.
the reform of the pact is intended to help improve the coordination of member states' economic policies, while underlining the need for sustainable fiscal policies.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has already launched a series of initiatives to improve the competitiveness of european industry, including the introduction of a european strategy for the environment.
the process aims to help countries in the region to establish peace, democracy, stability, prosperity and respect for minority rights in a sustainable way.
in its assessment of this process in may 2004, the council welcomed the significant improvements in regional cooperation, particularly in the areas of infrastructure, trade and energy.
looking at albania, i share the concern expressed in parliament’s resolution on the political climate, particularly in the context of this summer’s parliamentary elections.
i believe that the current situation on the oil market, and in particular the level of oil prices, will encourage many players to invest in alternative and renewable energy sources.
this will make renewable energy more attractive and, through these mechanisms, we may be able to exert pressure on oil companies and take initiatives to promote future energy.
i too believe that if we have a greenhouse gas problem, we must do something about it by using renewable energy sources, but also by using nuclear energy and saving energy.
but if you ask what steps are being taken to promote wind, wave and tidal power generation and whether these new initiatives are being hampered by the influence of the oil lobby, then i ask you: what initiatives are being taken in the nuclear field and are these initiatives being hampered by the lobby in favour of renewable energy sources?
on the second point you have raised, namely that the commission and the council - as indeed parliament - have been urging for many years to intensify the discussion within the wto and also to talk about labour standards, environmental standards, social standards: it seems appropriate to me to raise this issue again in the current round - i know that this will be very difficult - and i can promise you that we will refer to this again in the context of parliament's resolution.
do you think that in a world without tariff barriers and the competition they create, social and environmental standards will automatically decline?
do you agree with me that only a competitive economy is capable of meeting high environmental standards?
this will make it possible to apply the provisions of the waste vehicles directive in a systematic and uniform manner, rather than leaving it to the member states to adopt national legislation which may differ from one another.
i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues on the committee on the environment, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their good and constructive cooperation.
but cars also produce waste, and that's what we're talking about tonight.
in particular, the 95% target from 2015 is a very ambitious target, because it would mean that the car of the future would produce almost no waste.
the recyclability of cars and the prevention of waste are important environmental policy objectives in europe.
but cars still account for a staggering 1% of the total amount of waste in the eu.
the prevention of waste from cars is particularly well regulated in the eu, alongside packaging, electronic scrap and batteries.
the amendments we are proposing, which we will be voting on tomorrow, are aimed primarily at improving the implementation of the directive, without calling into question the environmental recycling objectives.
it is important that new directives and regulations should be subject to a competitive test in the future, particularly in the field of environmental and consumer protection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is not affected by the pollution of the atmosphere.
with such attacks, muslim extremists have created a climate of fear.
in my view, this formulation is not adequate because, as mr cabrnoch has already said, the core of all modernisation considerations is the trinity of accessibility, quality and long-term financial sustainability, i.e.
long-term financial sustainability, however extremely important, is not the sole driving factor in all decision-making.
in the interests of efficiency and sustainable acceptance of the open method of coordination, it must be possible to delete less important surveys and thus to obtain an optimal data portfolio from an efficiency point of view.
it allows the elderly and sick to be cared for in their own home environment, which is an important psychological factor and a major contributor to a longer and healthier life.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the rapporteur, mrs klaß, for their contribution to this report at first reading.
it also has high environmental value as it interacts with surface waters and water bodies, and is therefore an important part of the water cycle that needs to be protected.
prevention of groundwater pollution has been the subject of community legislation since 1980, most recently the water framework directive adopted in 2000. however, some gaps remain.
there are no clear criteria for the definition of environmental quality objectives for groundwater, and in particular good chemical status.
in addition, specific measures are needed to prevent and control pollution of groundwater.
in this context and after extensive consultation with the parties concerned, the commission has put forward the proposal under discussion today, which contains the following main elements: - a compliance regime for the assessment of good groundwater chemical status for a limited number of pollutants where community standards already apply; - the criteria for assessing the chemical status of groundwater on the basis of environmental quality standards to be established by the member states at the appropriate national, regional or local level, taking into account the specific characteristics of the natural groundwater conditions, the pressures detected and the pollution-related chemicals; - the criteria for determining the degradation of groundwater quality and for reversing pollution trends; measures to prevent or reduce the direct and in particular indirect discharge of dangerous substances into groundwater.
the proposal contains clear specifications which will ensure that the environmental objectives of the water framework directive are met in respect of groundwater.
groundwater is not only an important resource for our drinking water, but it is also essential for agriculture, industry and our ecosystem.
since it is very difficult, very time-consuming and, in particular, very costly to clean up polluted groundwater, the precautionary approach and the protection of the groundwater ecosystem are of particular importance.
the costs of the effort, implementation and monitoring must be sustainable without jeopardising the achievement of the goal of good chemical status of groundwater in all 25 eu member states.
we want quality standards, social aspects, environmental and consumer protection aspects to be gradually applied in all 25 member states.
in this sense, we all have a responsibility to ensure that in all countries on earth there is an open climate that makes it possible to enforce the rule of law and respect for the law.
other changes resulting from the council's discussion concerned the timing of the new standards and an alternative approach to dealing with short-term pollution and emergencies.
however, many of the alleged additional costs are already incurred by meeting the standards of the water framework directive, the nitrate directive and the municipal waste water directive.
and i do not need to explain how bad the practical implementation of many environmental regulations in the eu is, given the abundance of infringement procedures.
if europe wants to become more transparent for its citizens, we must also focus on what is necessary and feasible in the european context in the field of environmental and health protection.
in particular, in the three pillars, some countries, including my own, may have the greatest problems with the question of 'access to justice in environmental matters'.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i have to say on behalf of my group that we - as the previous speakers have already stated - consider the århus convention to be a very great step forward in environmental policy.
the clear rules on participation rights, as provided for in the convention, create a situation in which citizens, ngos, but also public authorities can do a better job for the environment.
the chairman of the committee on the environment, mr florenz, has just raised the question: will genetically modified organisms be covered by the aarhus convention in the future or not?
the only point to be made in this connection is that, in the end, the protection of the environment cannot be left to the ports alone, but is a task for the whole transport chain.
the presence of the international security assistance force, led by europe from the beginning, has provided us with a secure environment to exercise our political rights.
from europe, we need support and the assurance that afghanistan will continue to receive assistance in a sustainable manner.
indeed, climate policy is an important policy not only for the european union but for the whole globe, and therefore it is also a global task to take care of this policy.
the kyoto protocol is binding on all - at least morally - because we all have a shared responsibility for climate policy on this planet.
that is why i also told my german environment minister, who comes from your political family, to apply for this.
i also think we have to have the courage to take into account the private home fire -- all the heaters we have in our homes, which account for over a third of our carbon footprint.
who would have thought that, for example, the federal republic of germany would have saved 21 million co2 equivalents in the last 15 years through a sensible waste policy?
and then we will finally be able to take the necessary steps for our children to secure this continent on the carbon issue.
we all know that the issue of climate change deserves our full attention and must be fully integrated into our policies.
it is for this reason that the luxembourg presidency has made sustainable development one of its main priorities and that all the elements that relate more specifically to climate change should be specified in the framework of the sustainable development strategy.
i believe that in the long run no country will be able to escape the obvious constraints that we all face in this respect and i believe that if europe continues to play its role in relation to climate change, it will also succeed in convincing those who seem to be the most reluctant today.
we should deploy new technologies in order to fight climate change.
that was made very clear to the united states because, as we correctly said earlier, other countries will refuse to cooperate and, after a few years, the developing countries of south asia and south america and other developing countries will contribute more to the greenhouse phenomenon than the european union and the united states combined.
we will follow a common but differentiated policy because we cannot ask developing countries to contribute towards the reduction of emissions as much as the developed countries that have contributed far more up until now.
the commission recognises the need for the european union to maintain its leading role in international and also domestic efforts to fight climate change, as mr trakatellis said.
the commission highlighted in its communication of 9 february ‘winning the battle against climate change’ that we should focus on leadership by example.
one of the central recommendations was that the european council should give a clear message that the european union wishes to engage with other countries in an open dialogue on what further multilateral action is required to address the challenge of climate change.
they have proved to be a very useful tool in environmental policy-making.
thus, targets will continue to be a core element of any future climate policy regime.
the exact timing should depend on the progress we make in building international support for starting negotiations on the future climate change regime.
i should like to respond to the suggestion made by several speakers that the european union should use trade measures to protect our industry or other measures to offset the competitive advantages of companies in countries that do not restrict their greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union’s climate policy has been carefully designed to minimise costs to industry.
that is the reason we opted for emissions trading.
our goal should be to work towards a future climate regime that is not only a decisive step in winning our battle against climate change, but also allows us to do so in a way that strengthens our competitiveness in clean technologies.
such a regime will get us much further – also in climate terms – than trade sanctions.
with regard to the developing countries, i agree about the importance of assisting developing countries to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change.
the european union is the main contributor to the 2001 bonn political declaration, which pledges usd 410 million per year in climate change funding for developing countries, starting this year.
those countries have to face all the consequences of climate change, but they are not in a position to take the measures needed to adapt properly.
it is also in our interests, because in this way they will also contribute to reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases.
the commission recently agreed with china on the setting-up of two new european union-china action plans in the area of energy: one on clean coal and the other on renewable energy and energy efficiency for which the commission has secured initial funding.
once again, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the bonn seminar and the forthcoming negotiations on the future international climate change regime.
we recognise that the accumulation and spread of these weapons exacerbate conflicts, fuel terrorism, hamper post-conflict reconstruction efforts and reduce prospects for sustainable development.
questions to mrs hübner
question no 37 by mr karatzaferis (h-0273/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: conversion of the old ellinikon airport greek environment minister souflias stated on 22 march 2005 that the old athens airport ellinikon will not be completely converted into a city park because, as he said, the greek taxpayer cannot be required to pay for its construction and maintenance, so that at least 100 hectares can now be developed.
the regulation envisages the situation that when major project – above eur 25 million in the case of the environment and eur 50 million in the case of transport and substructure – are adopted, the commission also asks the member state, under cost-benefit analysis, to provide information about any jobs being created or lost in the regions concerned in the context of a given project.
the union encourages kyrgyzstan to create an environment in which the media and journalists in that country can fully exercise their rights and freedoms, in line with international commitments.
the dialogue process could focus on common concerns to both regions: the fight against terrorism, drug and human trafficking, money laundering, illegal immigration, energy, transport and increased economic cooperation.
the commission hopes for improved cooperation between the union and the caspian sea countries, as agreed at the ministerial conference on energy and transport held in baku last november.
from a political point of view, energy has become a security issue.
it is in the interest of both regions to cooperate in order to achieve a more efficient and deeper integration of our energy systems and markets.
today it is a region of great strategic importance - a strategic importance that has to do with the issues of gas, oil, energy supply and similar things, with the growing interest of china in this region, the emerging islamic fundamentalism and also with the fact that some of these countries are going on routes that have to do with drug trafficking.
what a waste!
what a waste of opportunity!
what a waste of time in europe, with all this stupid post-war analysis.
from its internal market to its external borders, from the promotion of internal cohesion to the defence of sustainable development and the environment, from the dimension of solidarity to that of justice in the four corners of the globe - because we do not want a europe that is self-sufficient - the european union is still building europe.
agreements such as gats or nama can give developing countries the chance to build up their own industrial and service structures, while developing high environmental and social standards.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection.
i have launched informal consultations with china in an attempt to find a sustainable solution for all parties.
the climate that affects this public opinion is not only influenced by us, but above all by the media.
russia has called for greater cooperation in the energy sector, which is in our own interests.
it presents itself as a reliable partner for the european union in this and other areas, and has committed itself to implementing the kyoto protocol, even as it threatens to withdraw if the regime is not reformed by 2012. these discussions show that the issue of global warming and the kyoto agreement, and especially what will come after the kyoto agreement, is of paramount importance and that we must therefore continue this aspect of the dialogue with the russians.
we also ensured that energy cooperation and the kyoto protocol are very high on the list of priorities in our roadmap.
we have to create a new climate there and we also want to do a lot on the question of technical support.
we want to bring people out of the northern caucasus, out of chechnya, so that they can also see a different environment.
russia is very important for our security stability as well as for our economic and ecological development.
even if parts of the eu are dependent on russian energy and raw materials, we must not betray our democratic and human rights principles.
for this reason, we are developing a strategic partnership, as illustrated by the 'four common spaces', with a common energy policy designed to avoid unilateral dependence at our expense, a strategic partnership that is geared to the events of 2007 for which we are preparing together.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the next item is the report by mrs britta thomsen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship (2001-2005) (com (2004) 0781) c6-0242/2004 2004/0272 (cod)) (a6-00118/2005).
but we are in danger of seeing exactly that in the zip, if we look at the strong focus on eco-innovation and energy efficiency, for example.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report by mrs karin scheele, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on vitamins and minerals in food (com (2003) 0671) (a6-0124/2005).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the environment.
the next item is the report by mrs poli bortone, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on nutrition and health claims made on foods (com (2003) 0424 c5-0329/2003 2003/0165 (cod)) (a6-0128/2005).
having a common set of rules in a unique legal environment also helps in the internal market and competitiveness.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the commission proposes to regulate everything: nutrition-related claims (such as fat content, high energy, low energy), health-related claims (such as 'a food strengthens the immune system', 'a food promotes concentration', etc.)
focusing on consumer information will close the legal loopholes for unfair practices by some market players and create a climate of healthy lifestyle aspirations that must be differentiated even across generations.
for some time now we have been trying to arrange a date on which i can visit the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in order to introduce the health and consumer programme and answer other questions.
however, it is a mistake to dissociate the sustainable development guidelines from this.
i want to make one thing clear: we are not talking about infrastructure that is publicly owned, but a large part of the networks we are talking about and which are to be developed are privately owned by large energy companies.
we believe that this wish list of 300 projects of european interest is really just a wish list to make the heart beat faster for energy supply companies which have the status of oligopolies in europe.
we believe that this will rather strengthen the power and influence of european energy companies, which are already too powerful and act against the market, and we do not believe that we will really get anywhere in terms of security of supply if we only strengthen the interests of these companies.
we are discussing today the establishment of guidelines for the transeuropean energy networks.
the decision on these guidelines sets the stage for a modern infrastructure of transeuropean networks in the energy sector.
i should like to use my brief speech to highlight a point which is particularly close to my heart: the decision will for the first time include the so-called alkane gas pipelines in the transeuropean energy networks.
amendment no 39, which i would like to promote very strongly again, lists a few selected routes which can help to close these gaps quickly and in a sustainable way.
the next item is the report by mrs mechthild rothe, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services (com (2003) 0739 c5-0642/2003 2003/0300 (cod)) (a6-0130/2005).
the commission has responded to an urgent need by presenting this proposal for a directive on energy efficiency and energy services.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market in electricity and gas, and has also proposed concrete measures to deal with the demand side of the market, since it is not responsible to use our second largest energy resource as little as we do today.
all credible studies say that the energy saving potential in the eu, which can be exploited without economic loss, without reducing comfort, is 20 to 30%; the technical potential is over 40%.
we know that the increasing dependence on imports, partly from crisis regions, and the current energy consumption is a major cause of the climate problem.
all this forces us to launch a real policy of energy efficiency and energy saving.
this means, as commissioner piebalgs said, a policy for climate protection, a policy to increase security of supply and a policy which is part of the lisbon strategy, namely for many new jobs.
i would like to thank the commission for presenting this directive and i would also like to thank you, commissioner piebalgs, for giving this area of energy efficiency a very special importance, as you have said on many occasions, and for presenting a green paper on this subject shortly.
it will not be difficult for any member state to achieve energy savings of between 3% and 4.5% in each of the three years following the implementation of the measures.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy savings achieved by the community are not exceeded.
this means that if, for example, the overall energy consumption increases because of economic developments, it would have increased more without these measures.
we believe that this report will help to put the demand side, and not always the supply side, at the centre of the energy strategy.
this has been neglected in many decades of energy policy debate, and we hope that we will be able to take the offensive here also with the rothe report .
i would like to see the berlin energy agency, for example, set an example in the field of energy efficiency.
energy services, for us, are a bit of the key to the future of energy efficiency.
we believe that we need to create a market for energy services so that our ambitious goals can be realized.
i believe that once again, economics and ecology can go hand in hand in this area, because what we can achieve, besides enormous environmental benefits, is jobs - especially in small and mediumsized enterprises - if we tackle this area systematically.
in conclusion, i would like to express my conviction that we can only succeed in achieving the major objectives we are pursuing in the energy policy debate - independence and security of supply - and in overcoming the major risks - climate change and nuclear risk - if we finally take energy efficiency and energy saving seriously and follow our big, ambitious words with action.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
improving energy efficiency is an important objective for a number of reasons.
that is why we support all reasonable efforts to use energy efficiently.
the present rothe report, however, meets these criteria only to a very limited extent: too much bureaucracy, too much centralism and questionable methods of improving energy efficiency in europe.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
our environment, our natural resources are a scarce commodity, and we want to pass this scarce commodity on to our children, as safely and as widely as possible.
we must therefore strive to achieve our environmental objectives as effectively and efficiently as possible.
these include not only the fact that european environmental policy has proved to be an effective instrument for preserving or even improving the environment, health and quality of life.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently launched a new programme to promote the environment.
the social, economic and environmental needs, in particular the requirements of regional cohesion, the fight against high unemployment, poverty and income inequality, must be considered in a macroeconomic framework.
the emphasis on competitiveness, security and defence at the expense of cohesion, the social and environmental dimension and cooperation with developing countries is unacceptable in our view.
question no 45 by mr staes (h-0360/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: budgetary lines for research and development in the field of renewable energyin an exchange of views on 25 january 2005, prof. sir chris llewellyn-smith, chairman of the advisory committee for the fusion programme, stated that with the help of a heavily promoted nuclear fusion programme, economically viable electricity could be produced in 40 years.
the seventh framework programme allocates more money to nuclear energy (fission and fusion) than to renewable energy.
the council nevertheless wants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15-20% by 2020 compared with 1990. the commission also forecasts that by 2020 the number of jobs in renewable energy worldwide will increase by several million.
does the commission consider that it is desirable, in the context of climate and employment policy, to shift r & d budgetary resources from nuclear to renewable energy, and does it have concrete plans in this regard?
the reference to 16% was in the context that nuclear fusion currently contributes 16% of the european union’s energy supply.
sustainability and ensuring that we do all in our power to be environmentally friendly should be part of our philosophy.
that philosophy underlines all our research programmes in the fields of environment, energy supplies and transport.
these financial perspectives may not reflect all the ambitions of each side, but they will nevertheless enable the union to act in the interests of competitiveness, employment, economic and social cohesion, better protection of the environment, internal security and a more active international role.
i would also mention that, in line with what was decided in march, the european council will be asked to approve a declaration on the guiding principles of sustainable development.
it should lead to the adoption of a renewed sustainable development strategy, if possible before the end of 2005. the european council will also have to consider some important aspects of the establishment of the area of freedom, security and justice.
the unquestionable importance of these issues should not, however, make us forget other areas which will also be on the agenda, from the integrated guidelines for the implementation of the lisbon strategy to the sustainable development strategy.
the european union supports the comprehensive concept of collective security proposed by the secretary-general, recognising that the threats to peace and security are not only war, international conflict, civil violence, organised crime, terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, but also poverty, underdevelopment, deadly epidemics and environmental degradation, including global warming issues.
it emphasises the link between the achievement of the millennium development goals and the implementation of the outcomes of un international conferences and summits in the economic, social, environmental and other fields.
we want to think together about the link between environmental sustainability, security and poverty eradication.
in the transition from a state of war to a state of sustainable peace, this peacebuilding commission could contribute to intensifying the planning activities carried out by the un for sustainable recovery, while strengthening the institutions guaranteeing the rule of law and good governance.
the commission has been actively engaged in the discussions on the proposed peace building commission, which could fill the very real gap that currently exists within the un institutional machinery for dealing with the period between the end of a conflict and long-term sustainable development.
the commission fully supports better environmental integration across the un system, including the establishment of a un environmental organisation, and is delighted to see that the european union is coming together on this.
if we want to fight terrorism, if we want to fight the problem of decaying states, if we want to fight global climate change and if we want to stand up for human rights and democracy in the world, then we need a strong united nations.
the third point is: we need to transform the unep into a genuine un environmental organization that is sustainable and well-organized.
security policy, development policy, environmental policy, human rights policy - these are the four pillars on which we must make progress.
we are working on several draft declarations: the middle east, international peace and security, the promotion of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights, but also africa, the environment and economic relations.
we have just read in the news agencies that even tony blair has failed to persuade the united states of america to make concessions on climate protection.
unfortunately, our american friends are still blocking effective climate action, and we are just now realizing how strong the link between poverty reduction and climate action is.
an amendment which i co-initiated and which was originally adopted in the committee on the environment was aimed at achieving an extension of the deadline until 2012 for some urgently needed technical applications.
the number of applications is negligible, the damage to the environment negligible.
the safety aspect must therefore be given priority over environmental aspects.
i am not in favour of more red tape, but in a field as sensitive as aviation safety, we should have paid a little more attention to the risks, especially as we do in other environmental legislation, often going overboard.
increased competitiveness, a greater modernisation of our economic behaviour and policies, a renewed desire to innovate and to advance in research: these are the main lines of the new strategy which does not and did not want to put a stop to progress, as some might have originally wished, nor to social cohesion - which is restored as a major objective, a major objective of the european union - nor to a proper environmental policy - which is not far from being the enemy of employment and competitiveness.
reducing the commission's proposed spending in areas such as research, innovation, education or transport and energy networks will have a real policy cost.
on the contrary, we should approve the financial perspective as soon as possible and then arrange a meeting later in order to adapt our budget to changing priorities and the international environment.
today the commission took important decisions on a green paper on energy efficiency and a new regime for the sugar markets.
the european council also approved guiding principles for sustainable development.
it has prevented and not approved the transfer of funds to the second pillar, namely innovation, employment and the environment, and to rural economic development.
the main aim of the report is to enhance governance and the national ownership of the eu fiscal framework by strengthening its economic underpinning, while safeguarding the sustainability of public finances and promoting growth.
(applause)we are leading the debate on climate change and developing pan-european policies to tackle it.
i am pleased that the uk presidency will maintain the momentum also on climate change.
not only must we live up to our commitments under the kyoto protocol, we must also start intensifying discussions on the international climate policy regime post-2012 and we must engage our main partners in that direction.
a post-2012 framework must build on five elements: the participation of all major emitting nations; the use of market-based instruments; the inclusion of more sectors, such as international aviation and shipping; the development and use of new technologies and support to enable the poorest and worst-affected countries to adapt effectively to climate change.
december’s united nations conference on climate change in montreal will be an important staging-post in this debate.
at a time when all pro-european forces are concentrating on overcoming the problems of modernisation in the new, larger europe, i shall not devote any energy to the statute project, which can be accused of being a 'self-service shop'.
in 2004 the ecb's monetary policy operated in an environment of gradual economic recovery in the euro area.
we share your view on this particular point that the best possible preparation for adopting the euro is a high level of sustainable convergence, in accordance with the maastricht criteria.
these rules must be applied with credibility and energy, but at the same time with rationality, so as not to give an argument to those who want to oppose economic stability and budgetary discipline to economic growth and job creation, because they are not incompatible; they are perfectly compatible.
the ecb's difficult environment is also due to the fact that the reform of the stability pact has largely removed the second pillar of stability for the euro, and thus the ecb has overall responsibility for a stable currency.
nevertheless, the council, on the basis of the study by the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment, extended the restrictions on phthalates in children's toys to the 0-3 year age group.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the fact that there is a debate in the commission again about the meaning and meaninglessness of ambitious environmental policy is not at all understandable when one looks at these documents.
i think you should actually put the figures on the table, commissioner verheugen, which are contained in your own commission report on environmental technologies.
the global market for environmental goods was already worth eur 500 billion in 2003. the world market in this field is larger than that for aerospace.
this is a very ambitious environmental policy, and i can only encourage you, mr dimas: do not be fooled, be as ambitious as your predecessors in office!
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the main objective of the european union must be to create viable energy market structures in which companies can make money, because that is the right incentive to create an investment climate which ultimately creates the infrastructure.
but this requires the sustainable, efficient and bottom-up use of resources to empower the most vulnerable and respond appropriately to development challenges.
i would like to point out once again that the success of the european structural funds can only be achieved if they take account of the principle of sustainability.
the commission has also been active in the field of energy efficiency.
we want the funds to be allocated in equal shares to the environment and transport infrastructure.
the resumption of oil and gas trade is also in our interest and will make a considerable contribution to the security of our energy supply.
it is therefore important for both sides that the legislation in the energy sector should be aligned and that adequate conditions for investment should be created.
otherwise, sustainable reconstruction is not possible.
and sixthly, we need iraq to cooperate closely with its neighbours in the region, because only then can a favourable investment climate be created throughout the region.
discussion between the european union and china is now rightly on a broad range of topics, including regional security, human rights, environment, education, migration, climate change and transportation.
we look forward to this chance for the european union and china to combine their efforts in order to address the challenges of climate change and energy security through dialogue and practical cooperation.
the business environment in china is still a difficult one for the foreign businesses that operate there.
we will also be looking for progress on a number of other issues, including climate change of course in this week when the g8 leaders gather in gleneagles, and towards market economy status for china.
energy security is an issue of concern to all countries.
current global levels of energy production and consumption are already considered as having a negative impact on the global climate, and greenhouse gas emissions are expected to rise over the coming decades.
the european union and china face an important dual challenge, ensuring energy security and combating climate change.
the european union recognises its obligation to reduce its own emissions while at the same time assisting countries such as china to meet their growing energy needs in a sustainable manner.
moreover, with the technological rise of china, the economies may, in fact, move from complementarity to more intense competition and thereby heat up the political environment rather than cool it down.
in that context, we have agreed to intensify our political dialogue and we have said that energy issues in particular should be very high on our agenda, together with japan.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
our commitment in burma is to promote human rights, democratisation and sustainable development as far as we can, using all the tools available to us.
the level of foreign direct investment quoted in the report is also not a good indicator of success, as it does not indicate the level of job creation or the social or environmental compatibility of the investments.
i believe that the issue is that lending must be oriented towards the objectives of poverty reduction and respect for social, environmental and human rights criteria, that this must take precedence over financial and technical criteria, and that the bank's management must actually implement and enforce this.
thirdly, the social and environmental impacts of major infrastructure projects need to be identified and taken into account, much more than in the past.
critical are the lack of progress in judicial reform, widespread corruption in the police and judiciary, significant shortcomings in the integration of minorities, weak economic development and social and environmental problems.
the shocking electoral success of the far-right ataka party, which won 8% of the seats in the bulgarian parliament, does not improve the political climate in society as a whole.
life+ is to be the only funding instrument for the environment from 2007. it is not a bad idea to combine the various programmes which have supported environmental actions, such as actions under the forest focus regulation, the support of non-governmental organisations or that of local and regional authorities, into a single environmental instrument.
we know that an effective energy policy is one that takes place locally, across the union, across the local area.
but effective control of the use of funds is urgently needed if we are to achieve a clear european added value in financing environmental policy.
the commission's proposal to pay for the management of natura 2000 sites from the funds is also not a bad idea, even though we first saw in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety the problems of this approach, namely competition with other objectives set by different funds.
i also welcome the commission's proposal to simplify the financing and management of existing environmental programmes and to combine them all into a single financial instrument under life+.
i too am in favour of environmental protection and the necessary financial compensation.
here, the assumption is that it is environmental protection when an environmental organization buys a piece of land.
the proper management of land is the first step towards environmental protection, and it is also much cheaper in the end.
instead, concrete projects that benefit the environment must be financed.
this includes - as my group has called for - the european union's commitment to improving working conditions and the social rights of workers and to high environmental standards both in its own industry and in the production of its trading partners.
i want to make it clear that i am in favour of environmental protection and also in favour of the much-needed financial compensation.
i am against institutional support for environmental associations, for non-governmental organisations, and also against the european union taking on more responsibilities.
subsidiarity must also be applied to environmental protection.
that is why several members – mr maat, mr prodi, mr turmes and others – have mentioned the connection between climate change and the recent phenomena and catastrophes.
mr president, i should first like to thank the european parliament and the committee on the environment, and in particular mrs sjöstedt's rapporteur, for the painstaking preparation of this second reading report.
with the consequences of the major mining waste accidents in asnallcoger, spain, in 1998 and in baia mare, romania, in 2000, still fresh, the commission's proposal for a directive aimed at establishing rules at european union level to minimise the impact on the environment and human health of the storage of waste in waste tanks or piles, both under normal operating conditions and in the event of an accident.
in conjunction with the revised seveso 2 directive on the control of major industrial accidents and a document on best available techniques, the proposed directive will ensure the proper management of waste from the mining industry throughout the european union.
in particular, the provisions on inert waste have been extended, permitting procedures have been specified, references to community standards, in particular those established by the water framework directive, have been increased, requirements for the long-term stability of waste facilities have been strengthened, stricter limit values for cyanide compounds have been set and inventories of closed abandoned sites are now required.
at the same time, the council, concerned with the principle of proportionality, gave the member states the possibility of exempting non-hazardous, non-inert waste from certain provisions of the directive, in particular from the obligation to provide a financial guarantee.
however, the commission decided to support the common position, taking into account: firstly, that no general derogation from the basic provisions of the directive is allowed but that the competent authorities in the member states decide on a case-by-case basis and, secondly, that no derogation is allowed from the main environmental safeguard clauses of the directive concerning the safe design, operation, decommissioning and maintenance of waste facilities.
we need the new directive to ensure that mine waste is managed in an environmentally sound manner both in the day-to-day operation of waste facilities and in the event of a major accident.
the definition of waste is more clear.
but there is one crucial point on which we as the epp-ed group disagree, and that is the different weighting of waste.
we must take account of the different hazard potential of mining waste.
it is therefore right that member states should be able to differentiate between hazardous and non-hazardous waste and to reduce or suspend the requirements for non-hazardous non-inert waste, provided that it does not fall under category a, i.e.
the very well defined hazardous waste.
the range of mining waste ranges from harmless substances such as quicksand, salt and mother earth to toxic cyanide from ore mining.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner which would be contrary to the interests of the community.
commissioner, you also said that: a quarry, a sand or gravel pit must not be equated with a hazardous waste landfill.
the waste generated by the combustion of lime, such as lime dust, is marketed and used; they are not dangerous and should not be covered by the landfill directive.
in all our activities we must keep in mind our objective, which is the safety of people and the environment with the least possible bureaucracy and effort.
the directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries is a piece of legislation which is not of particular interest to large sections of the european public - at least in my own country.
this applies both to trade unions and industry and their associations on the one hand and to the various environmental and consumer associations on the other.
however, i believe that the environment committee is presenting a balanced piece of legislation to the plenary for adoption, especially as this directive is a supplementary directive.
the waste framework directive and the landfill directive largely exclude the extractive industries because the types of waste produced by these industries do not quite comply with the rules.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that is harmful to the environment.
not only for people and the environment, but also for trading companies, for companies that extract mineral resources, such as oil, coal, metal, clay, gravel or sand.
the socialists in the european parliament always have two things in mind: firstly, the protection of people and the environment, the sustainability of our economy, and secondly, the right framework and the appropriate conditions that our companies need to be able to operate, to create jobs for the people we want to save from harm.
mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for the very constructive remarks they have made and i would like to give some answers on the bauxite waste - a subject mentioned earlier - for the production of alumina: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the directive.
as regards the last remark by mr nicholson, which is different from what was said by previous speakers, the commission and the council in their common position accepted the inventory pension for old abandoned waste facilities.
furthermore, as regards the possibilities for exemptions for non-inert waste, these do not concern the main environmental requirements which are still in force.
we need the new directive to ensure that mine waste is managed in an environmentally sound manner both in the day-to-day operation of waste facilities and in the event of a major accident.
and i hope that we will complete the process on this proposal as soon as possible so that we can ensure the best protection of human health and the environment, as mr davies said, in a way that is real and meets the requirements of the various stakeholders.
amendments nos 2 and 13 concern the deletion of permitted exemptions for non-hazardous non-inert waste.
for the same reasons, the commission is not in a position to accept amendment no 11, which increases the scope of the provisions applicable to inert waste, nor amendment no 15, which deletes the various periods of time allowed before a waste site is classified as a 'waste facility'.
on the other hand, we cannot agree with amendment no 36 which regulates joint excavation operations to prevent water pollution.
similarly, amendment no 42 introduces obligations to be applied during the transitional period granted to existing waste facilities, in particular the obligation to comply with the water framework directive.
another source of concern to parliament was the considerable burden of the past represented by the polluting closed and abandoned waste facilities.
amendment no 10 can help to promote the integration of the environment into other policies.
amendments nos 17, 18 and 21 specify more precisely the content of waste management plans.
the next item is the report by mrs barsi-pataky, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european satellite navigation programme (com (2004) 0477 - c6-0087/0156 (cod)) (a6-0212/20059).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of radioactive waste, and it is not the commission's intention to take any further action.
but i also thank the temporary committee on the financial perspective, because it has made a significant contribution to the fact that progress will not only be a good instrument for better implementation of the social policy agenda, but that we will also have enough money to really ensure more sustainability.
in our view, in order to make europe truly fit for the future, we must promote very specific priorities: research, education, youth, cultural exchanges in the enlarged europe, the environment and renewable energies - and i say this in view of what has just happened in new orleans.
the european parliament has allocated 2.5 billion for energy and transport, but the council has only allocated 1.3 billion.
we simply do not think that the resources are sufficient to ensure that european environmental and health policy and our food safety policy are properly implemented.
the growth in the environmental sector is said to be just under 1%.
i have to say, madam president, the establishment of a sustainable common fisheries policy does not reduce the tasks in this area.
in all these examples there were at least three or four issues which could be directly linked to the debate and decisions being made here, and which are of course common, such as environmental issues, trade or competition issues.
question no 45 by mr staes (h-0563/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: community legal framework to combat transnational waste crime there are considerable differences in the enforcement of waste legislation between member states and even between regions within the same member state.
the waste legislation itself also differs widely within the european union.
this leads to large-scale transfrontier shipments of waste, with fraud by waste crime regularly detected by the judiciary and the police.
in view of the opinion of the advocate general of the european court of justice in case c-176/03, does the commission intend to take steps to establish a legal framework to combat waste crime at eu level and what are the commission's priorities in the fight against waste crime?
they could not understand this discussion, which they had partly followed in the environment committee.
the commission cannot accept the following amendments: the commission has also decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of a number of measures concerning the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers against the dangers arising from the use of certain substances or preparations.
the convention, established over 50 years ago in a quite different international climate, has led to great advances in human rights across the continent.
i think it is cynical that we should waste valuable time here discussing a sunshine policy while we leave tens of thousands of people, many of them children, starving and dying of thirst in the sunshine of africa.
the dramatic changes in climate are also causing more and more attention to be paid to natural radiation.
i too would like to begin by thanking my colleague mr queiró for his innovative report on sustainable tourism.
on the other hand, i regret - and mr kusstatscher has also mentioned this - that the real ecological problems associated with mass tourism are hardly mentioned here, at least not to the extent that would allow them to be solved.
we are therefore very grateful for the foundations laid 25 years ago for a europe united in peace, freedom and democracy, with a social and ecological orientation.
in this package there are two proposals on islamic loans and mortgage loans and one on energy companies, which we personally do not approve of, because basel ii should not be used as a means of creating special safeguards or special situations for certain industries.
i would like to stress once again that fisheries policy, which is of great importance to the european union, is a classic task of reconciling economic interests and ecological needs.
these never-ending negotiations affected the trading environment in a negative way.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new energy policy.
with regard to mr guellec's report, i have taken note of the strong support in this house for the recommendations it puts forward: to consider territorial cohesion as a major element in the lisbon and gothenburg strategies; to give a boost to all dimensions of territorial cooperation; and to place greater emphasis on cooperation between urban centres, suburban areas and the countryside, particularly those with specific disadvantages, so as to contribute to the development of sustainable communities.
i share your view that economic integration needs to be supported by exchanges of a social and cultural nature and cooperation in fields such as new technologies, health measures, combating illegal immigration and measures on the environment and risk prevention.
the commission is convinced that the sugar sector in the outermost regions is expanding, also in the context of its contribution to energy security.
to be clear, this is not about weakening the level of integration achieved or changing the balance between the three major policy objectives of growth, social cohesion and sustainable development.
if we are faced with a very critical energy situation at the moment and also know that the transport sector is the biggest energy consumer of all, then we must seize the opportunity to say: away from the road and increasingly also away from flying we will always come back to the kerosene tax and we will go to the rail.
we greens want to take account of social and environmental considerations.
but we'll give you permission on the following conditions: there must be no social dumping, environmental concerns must be taken into account, as called for in the meijer report by the european parliament.
the period of 18 years between 1994 and 2012 however, provides the guarantee that all these changes could and can be realised in a socially sustainable way.
the commission turkey's accession would help the eu to better secure energy supply routes.'
we are therefore well advised to make it clear that the state should support alternative energy sources - in moderation - but that we should also rely on new technologies.
but i am deeply convinced that the only long-term answer is to overcome our dependence on oil, an energy source that may be available for another 40 to 60 years, and that is vulnerable to crisis, that is becoming more expensive as it becomes scarce.
the first priority must be to save energy.
i hope very much, mr minister, that in this difficult situation we will succeed in reaching a reasonable and viable compromise for the energy efficiency and energy services directive.
we have done a lot in the european union in the field of renewable energy, but we still have shortcomings.
almost half of the energy produced is used for heat production, much of it from oil.
i would like to speak now about renewable energy, not because i believe that it is the only solution to the problem, but because i have a special responsibility as the shadow rapporteur for my group.
it's true: renewable energy is part of the answer to high oil prices.
but i also think it is important that we in europe and in the member states have not always set the right priorities in the field of renewable energy.
but we do not have a coherent european strategy to promote renewable energy in heating and cooling, even though this is the area where the greatest dependence is on oil and gas.
we know why this is so, because many who support renewable energy see it as just the opposite of nuclear energy.
is it not more important to reduce our dependence on oil and gas and to manage the effects of global climate change as best we can?
for example, in germany we have a renewable energy law where we invest 50 cents per kilowatt hour in photovoltaics.
we must realise that if we invest one euro in heating and cooling, for example, in heating based on biomass, heat pumps or solar thermal energy, we save 45 times as much co2 and 45 times as much fossil fuel with the one euro invested.
the creation of a un environmental organization has not been successful.
i would add that, particularly in the face of the challenges of international climate policy, this is a very serious failure.
the epp-ed group is in favour of renewable energy, but we had to point out to claude turmes in some places that we need to be more realistic about this.
we believe that wind energy should not only be mentioned positively, but that the problems of grid stability and the problems of the population must be taken into account.
these are the reasons why we want to promote renewable energy: we want to reduce dependence on oil and gas, and we want to get the climate problem under control.
but i leave no doubt that we must work together for renewable energy in europe.
the current oil crisis in particular is making it increasingly clear that finite sources of energy must be replaced by constantly renewable sources.
in recent years, we have launched a successful strategy in the eu to develop renewable energy, including the setting of legal targets for electricity from biofuels, for example.
we have achieved market penetration and have thus made an important contribution to climate protection.
this means that we need clear legal requirements with clear objectives to create incentives for activities in the member states and to exploit this area as it can be exploited with the very high potential of biomass, solar thermal and geothermal energy.
i would also like to mention that it is extremely important that the committees on the environment and agriculture were consulted but, if the objective of renewables is to be successful, then other committees should also take these questions on board.
as long as it is just the committee on energy, the goals will not be achieved.
meanwhile the commission supports the roma community where it can, notably through our assistance programmes to improve the overall sustainability of their living conditions.
the social question is not answered, workers have almost no participation rights, there is no freedom to form strong unions, and pollution is enormous.
we would then suddenly have competition for a higher standard, because then the producer would be forced to introduce better social standards, better environmental standards, better industrial standards.
we are dealing with a dying continent, and you can see the extent to which aids is spreading in some countries, how climate change has led to a lack of food, how we have not always given the right help, and not enough.
when iran’s concealment of crucial elements of its nuclear programme came to light in 2002 and 2003, the normal procedure should have been for the international atomic energy agency’s board of governors to report iran to the united nations security council.
madam president, in the current climate it is inevitable that discussions about iran focus on its nuclear programme.
this means working through the appropriate channels: first, the international atomic energy agency and, if and when necessary, the united nations security council.
a framework agreement with the eu could facilitate the reintegration of iran into the international community and contribute to the creation of an environment conducive to economic growth and job creation.
these were resumed only after the signature of the november 2004 paris agreement, which helped to re-establish a more favourable political environment.
this leads me to say a few words on where we stand with regard to the nuclear issue, including its implications on the tca since the adoption of the resolution of the international atomic energy agency of 24 september.
a united eu can also form the bedrock upon which the international community can send a clear message to iran that, whilst as per article iv of the non proliferation treaty – npt – iran has the inalienable right to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes – and this without discrimination – we need objective guarantees on the exclusively peaceful nature of iran’s nuclear programme.
the board of governors of the atomic energy authority stated on 24 september that, based on past experience, it had no confidence that iran's nuclear programme was exclusively for peaceful purposes.
it is a challenge again for states to do much more on this issue, because it is also about employment, it is also about mobility, it is also about the capacity for personal and mental development, and of course it is also about tolerance, the capacity to understand another culture and to live in a multicultural environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i am therefore very much looking forward to the analysis and proposals for sustainable urban development which you, madam commissioner, have announced to us today.
the eu is a very bad broker, partly because it itself promotes nuclear energy, france and the united kingdom do not want to give up their nuclear weapons and germany is accused of uranium enrichment.
in the present political climate our policies need more than ever to be directly relevant to citizens’ real needs.
leonardo is a sustainable support for vocational training, it empowers individuals and it is fully in line with the objectives of the new lisbon strategy for growth and jobs.
i would like to thank all the other committees, the foreign affairs committee, the committee on women's rights and gender equality, the committee on budgets, the committee on industry, research and energy, which have also dealt with the matter.
this is a good omen for waste management!
the proposal to include animal by-products in the waste legislation is illogical, yes, it is dangerous.
this regulation is therefore stricter and clearer than the waste legislation.
the exceptions provide that dead animals may also be buried as waste.
this has led some government agencies to ban animal cemeteries and to encourage people to bury their dead animals in landfills - because this is covered by waste legislation.
but first we must prevent the waste management from being removed from the internal market and the internal market from being a place where no waste is shipped.
secondly, we must prevent the re-communalisation of waste management, which is perhaps something that some countries like to do, in order to burden their own businesses and thus prevent shipments.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament, the committee on the environment and in particular the rapporteur, mrs doyle, for the excellent work she has done on this report for the second reading.
the proposals we are discussing today are an important part of the community's policy on climate change.
fluoride is a very potent greenhouse gas.
in the european climate change programme, legislation to limit fluorinated gas emissions has been identified as one of the key measures for the european union to achieve its kyoto protocol target.
the draft proposals under discussion today will make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
the commission agreed to this change as the two elements are seen as a whole package that secures the environmental ambitions of the original proposal.
i would like to stress here that i will be following closely the development of certain outstanding issues in parliament and in the council, in particular the very serious question of the legal basis on which the environment committee of parliament wants the regulation on fluorinated gases to be based solely on article 175. the outcome of the vote on this matter in plenary will be of particular importance.
i would also like to add that the commission welcomes measures taken by several member states to reduce greenhouse gases.
the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection are intended to ensure that the commission is able to take account of the concerns of consumers and the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the new prohibitions proposed by the committee on the environment.
as regards the mac emissions directive, the commission supports parliament's proposal to phase out fluorinated greenhouse gases from macs using the type approval procedure instead of a system of transferable quotas.
we need the new regulation and the new directive without delay to start contributing to the reduction of fluorinated gas emissions.
it is also clear that this will send a really positive and timely message as we embark - today to be precise - on the second phase of the european programme on climate change.
however, it is becoming increasingly difficult to understand environmental protection measures when the legal basis of article 175 is implemented differently in each country, thus jeopardising the proper functioning of the internal market.
the ambitious target of achieving the environmentally important switch-over of air conditioners away from fluorinated greenhouse gases by 2011 is welcome but poses problems for smes.
with the gwp limit of 150, we achieve a 90% reduction in emissions.
the 2011 deadlines for new types and 2017 for new models are ambitious enough from an environmental point of view and also feasible for manufacturers.
the call to reintroduce the greenhouse effect 50 has already been rejected in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the gwp limit value of 50 has no significant greenhouse effect compared to the limit value of 150. this is not the case with the car industry, but with the british impact assessment, the commission and the swedish ministry of the environment.
in order to ensure planning certainty, legal certainty and common standards in the internal market, the legal basis should be article 95. this is a clear commitment to high environmental standards, but also to a functioning internal market where everyone is treated equally.
in these days when we often talk about better regulation, i would like to recall in this particular case the problems with the implementation of the electronic waste directive, which is based on article 175.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
we're showing that we're serious about the kyoto protocol goals, that we're trying to set an example for the rest of the world here - an example in terms of ambitious climate targets and also in terms of reducing these f-gases.
i do not say this because i have something against the environment, but because i want the whole european market and the european environment to be maintained and developed according to common high standards.
the conclusions drawn from all these problems are clear: an opaque legal system, organised crime, minority and roma issues, corruption, problems in agriculture and the environment.
these reforms must therefore be the mother of all priorities, the priority of all priorities, not least because their impact extends to all areas of life and society, whether it is the access to health services or the environment in which businesses operate.
we send teams of experts, often legal experts, and we use the impel system in order to encourage and facilitate the transposition of the environmental legislation in general and the waste legislation in particular.
strengthening democracy, the rule of law, improving business and the investment climate for sustainable economic development, and encouraging people-to-people contacts are matters of utmost importance.
we regard the process of eu-black sea/caspian basin energy and transport cooperation, launched at the baku ministerial meeting late last year, as a very important vehicle for encouraging broader regional cooperation.
we are also giving due attention to the environmental situation in and around the caspian sea, because it is the largest saltwater lake in the world but also one of the richest oil reserves.
i would like to ask a supplementary question: there are two very specific problems in the region - one of which you have already mentioned - namely the energy problem and the minority problem, which also involves displacement, separation and many other things.
my question is whether there are still plans to hold a conference of the commission or the european institutions on energy issues, and secondly, whether you are also specifically dealing with minority issues, particularly in georgia, azerbaijan and armenia?
these are countries which will be important friends for us, countries which we are also prepared to include in the single market - if they implement their reforms - and to give them opportunities in the fields of energy, transport and education.
we will be trying our luck again soon, in the hope that we can secure a long overdue regulation governing fisheries in the mediterranean, which would give the commission increased powers to ensure that fisheries are carried out properly and within the limits of sustainability.
they can make a vital contribution to the long-term future of industries such as pharmaceuticals, food, agriculture, energy, textiles and chemicals.
but success in developing biotechnology also depends on finding solutions to the significant ethical, societal, economic and environmental issues it throws up.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 july 2004 the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation laying down the general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks for the period 2007-13. mr mauro, your rapporteur, has worked conscientiously on this text, and i thank him for that.
there is no competitive economy without efficient transport and energy networks.
the establishment and proper functioning of these networks are two of the essential conditions for the success of the internal market, to ensure sustainable mobility and security of energy supply in an enlarged union.
five years after the lisbon objectives, the network is still facing strong but unbalanced growth in traffic, while the need for sustainable development is growing and the need to integrate the networks of the new member states, and transport and energy, is becoming an unavoidable imperative.
for the new programming period, we propose that you allocate eur 20.69 billion to the transeuropean transport and energy networks, including eur 20.35 billion for transport and eur 340 million for energy.
the increase in the proposed budget for energy is intended first of all to meet the needs of the ten new member states.
i am counting on parliament not to reduce the ten-energy budget by eur 340 million, as envisaged in the report proposal, to an amount below that which was available for the period 2000-06. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the simple budgetary aspects, the proposal we are considering this evening also sets four complementary objectives.
the second objective is to make aid conditional on compliance with certain elements of the common transport and energy policy.
finally, in the energy sector, financing will be concentrated on the priority projects identified in the decision on guidelines.
in the energy sector, no change.
the transeuropean transport and energy networks make europe more tangible to citizens.
we look at the energy field with a tearful eye.
we should at least return to the figures for 2004. we also need to spend more on renewable energy if we really want a strategy to move away from oil in order to adequately address climate challenges.
we must do this for ecological reasons, but also for economic reasons.
it shows how in areas like energy – where after all we are going to be importing within the next few years something like 90% of our oil and gas needs – europe has to up its game considerably, and it shows also the enormous demographic challenge that we will face, with fewer people of working age, more people in retirement, and more people therefore needing to work.
the second area is energy and energy policy.
i believe it is time to develop within europe a common european energy policy.
(applause)for far too long we have been in the situation where, in a haphazard and random way, energy needs and energy priorities are simply determined by each country according to its needs, but without any sense of the collective power that we could have in europe, if we were prepared to pool our energy and our resources.
that policy should focus not on new regulatory barriers, but rather on obtaining a genuinely open energy market.
secondly, we, like other major countries in the world, should be prepared to enter into dialogue at european level with key suppliers of energy, to use our collective weight to make our voice heard.
thirdly, we need to be developing clean technologies, energy efficiency and coming to some common views at least about the possibilities and perspectives on issues related to areas such as nuclear power.
(applause) finally, on external relations, in respect of climate change you will know that we had successful agreements with china and india, as well as russia, on the issue of how to take forward a proper dialogue on climate change.
in particular, i would commend to you the coal demonstration plant with near-zero emissions that we have agreed with china for europe to build.
i am perfectly happy, in response to questions, to say more about climate change in a moment.
our aim therefore is to get the following things done: agreement on a new economic direction; new priorities for european work in areas like research and development, energy, universities, migration, demography and so on; and a future financing deal that is fair, begins to address those priorities and gives the future prospect of being able substantially to reorder the european budget.
we want to get clear conclusions in december on a development strategy for europe in respect of africa and to make sure that we keep to a strong process of change in order to combat greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental challenge we face.
(applause) i would like to thank we know that europe has a historically high level of prosperity, social cohesion, environmental protection and quality of life compared with other regions of the world.
on the other hand, there is the danger posed by those who think that it is possible to make europe a power by having 25 minimum energy markets and 25 minimum services markets at the same time.
for example, as the prime minister said, and as we have said in our paper, we are in favour of a common approach at european level on energy.
i believe we can do much more in that area, bringing together the fields of environment, agriculture, research and the funds we already have at our disposal.
i would therefore like to ask - also because of the ecological importance of these cattle breeds for the alps, which are already ecologically threatened: does the council support such an approach or is it completely neutral and has no opinion on the matter?
we cannot simply accept this either, especially since important geostrategic interests of the powers are also clashing in this area, including in the energy sector.
and the threat of environmental destruction and the loss of biodiversity is cited as a major issue.
if the topic is "it's about the ecological dimension of globalization" please, we can talk about it.
they are a sustainable process requiring significant financial transactions and long-term management decisions.
secondly, we should talk more about the gothenburg summit, because it is there that the triangle between the economic, social and ecological dimensions has been anchored.
trade itself must be liberal, but liberalism alone will not bring us social progress, because we need environmental, occupational and social standards.
i therefore welcome the resolution of the committee on industry, research and energy and i very much hope that in the future we will be able to extend the cooperation between the committee on industry and the committee on culture and education.
what i would like from you is - and this is also the case with sugar - that this debate is conducted within the european union and that we do not simply think we can take a quantitative approach to the proposal for liberalisation, leaving politics and social and environmental concerns out of the equation, but that the commission, as the champion of these quality criteria, speaks out clearly and ensures that social, labour and environmental concerns are taken into account and reflected in trade relations worldwide.
secondly, new guidelines for environmental protection and energy saving.
we already have more than a dozen european acts in the field of energy efficiency alone.
in this case mr sacconi is actually the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i wish he had taken the position of the committee on the environment.
the consensus of managers and employees: there is no alternative to protecting the environment and health, and a clear distinction must be made between hazardous and non-hazardous substances, not least for the sake of the employees.
if this reach act comes into force, the environment and consumer protection will be the clear winners.
in the future, in the interests of the environment and consumer protection, these costs will have to be borne by the companies themselves.
firstly, a general remark on the overall package: europe is a large economic area of almost 500 million people, and it is right that we should take a leading role for this area, particularly in the field of environmental protection, with a common binding legal framework.
but europe is not a secluded part of the world, nor should it be, but it is in competition with other large industrial regions throughout the world and it serves the well-intentioned aims, especially those of environmental protection, not if production is transferred to other regions of the world in the future and environmental problems are thereby possibly increased, then we will be hit in the same way, but at the same time we will also suffer considerable economic damage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the committee therefore sees reach as a unique opportunity to better protect people and the environment from hazardous chemicals.
secondly, the proposals which the committee on the environment has put forward in addition to these can be implemented by the large companies, but not by the small ones.
we have found very committed compromises in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, and if we now look at the compromise package negotiated by mr sacconi and mr nassauer, we see that we are in fact following a similar philosophy: that we want to do everything possible to pursue a sound industrial policy, to develop it further and to maintain competitiveness, but that we do not forget the second pillar, namely health, the environment and the protection of workers.
i can tell you that politics is more than the environment committee, parliament is more than the green group and the european union is more than scandinavia.
the winner would be industry, and the loser would be the environment and consumer protection.
without reach, the risk of cancer and the increase in environmental diseases would increase.
our main demand is a system which, without neglecting the objectives of environmental and consumer protection, will considerably reduce the costs for businesses, especially small businesses, and avoid unnecessary red tape.
broad public support is essential for a sustainable enlargement policy, now more than ever.
the commission fully supports the efforts of the un status envoy, president ahtisaari, to prepare a balanced and sustainable settlement in kosovo, and we shall of course work closely with him.
our common goal must be a status with standards; it is of paramount importance that the rights of minorities and the protection of cultural and historical sites are ensured in order to achieve a sustainable settlement that facilitates the stability of the whole region.
however, when and how the dismantling of a nuclear power station begins after shutdown, how the disposal is organized, even after the actual shutdown, is of central importance for the prevention of radioactive contamination of the environment, the local population or the workers who are responsible for the dismantling.
the decision on how and when to reduce emissions must, in my view - and i agree with those who want to make responsible environmental policy - be based solely on safety, and safety must not be subordinated to the financial interests of the nuclear industry.
it is not unusual for companies to buy up other energy companies, but it is also common to buy up in the water sector or in telecommunications - in fact in all sectors with a network character.
the compromise text which i am presenting today in the chamber with my own-initiative report and which we shall be voting on tomorrow is intended to encourage the commission to take action against the abuses in the field of waste disposal.
i am still convinced that national responsibility for nuclear waste is right.
as rapporteur and as an opponent of nuclear energy, i would have liked to have recommended that you support amendment no 18 by the epp group, which also supported the commission's proposal on the level of appropriations.
the next item is the joint debate on the statements by the council and the commission on climate change and the report by mr anders wijkman, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the strategy for successfully tackling global climate change [2005/2049 (ini) ] (a6-0312/2005).
the environment, energy and climate change chapters, however, are quite visible.
many points in the coalition agreement are identical to what the environment committee proposes in the wijkman report, and this is an encouragement for the commission to continue its path with full commitment, for example, in air traffic and in the objectives.
in germany, we want to give renewable energy a new priority in the field of heat in the grand coalition and also in the motions for the wijkman report before us.
i agree with cristina gutiérrez that the climate problem cannot be solved without nuclear energy.
there's a study by the pentagon that says that in the long run, climate change poses a greater threat to humanity than international terrorism.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
after visiting the united kingdom last week, i must say that i am very irritated that the climate debate is being led by tony blair and others to the conclusion that the increased use of nuclear energy, the so-called clean nuclear energy, is a better way to achieve climate objectives.
when you talk about clean nuclear energy, do you mean the production of fuel cells in russia?
have you ever discussed in england how much waste you will dispose of, when, where and at what cost?
you have a lot of experience in windscale of how recycling actually affects the environment and people.
i am very surprised that the british, who have actually abandoned nuclear energy for economic reasons, are now pushing this crazy discussion of 'climate protection through increased use of nuclear energy'.
we would have to shut down hundreds, thousands of nuclear reactors if we really wanted to make an efficient contribution to climate protection through nuclear energy.
it would be appropriate to have reprocessing plants all over the world, because the uranium reserves would not be sufficient for such a scale of nuclear energy development.
it is much more difficult to tackle the energy problems through energy efficiency, through savings, through a different approach.
i shall in any case withdraw my signature from this report because i believe that unpaid cheques cannot buy acceptance of european policy or security in nuclear energy.
if, on an exceptional occasion, the eu promotes the decommissioning of nuclear power plants to protect people and the environment, as in the case of the slovak bohunice v1 reactor, this is worthy of support, even if the distinction between the "good" reactors in the west and the "dangerous" in eastern europe by the eu commission is untenable.
in addition, without eu funding, it may not be possible to ensure that immediate decommissioning measures are taken to protect people and the environment.
the commission proposal should be supplemented in this sense by article 2 which sets out eu priority objectives, such as high safety standards for decommissioning and the achievement of the climate change objective through the promotion of renewable energy, by specifying the use of funds.
that is why i urge the british presidency to do everything in its power – and i well know the energy and commitment of your prime minister and indeed of all your officials – to get an agreement.
at that meeting the council reiterated its grave concern at iran’s resumption of activities at the uranium conversion facility at isfahan and urged iran to implement all the measures requested by the international atomic energy agency board.
but when they are made in the current delicate climate, and especially by the head of state himself in connection with a conference entitled ‘the world without zionism’, i think it really is time to draw a red line and to remind the iranian president of the responsibilities that come with being a member of the family of nations.
we therefore support the efforts by the british presidency, france, germany, mr javier solana and like-minded partners to bring iran to a fuller cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and dr elbaradei in this regard the next meeting of the board of the iaea will be crucial.
i asked a representative of the russian government this morning to do everything possible for the russian government - which has a certain influence on iran - to ensure that there is finally transparency in all these questions of the development of nuclear energy, as the commissioner and the council representative have asked.
the proposed standards are based on the results of serious scientific work within the international standards organisation and have been adopted by the international union for the conservation of the environment.
however, the proposal focuses on the legal basis for environmental policy.
first of all, i would like to thank very warmly the colleagues who have contributed to the preparation of the report - as rapporteur in the committee on foreign affairs and as shadow rapporteur in the committee on industry, research and energy - for their contribution.
we live in a changed security environment with new threats, terrorism, unstable states, conflicts over the distribution of natural resources, religious and political fanaticism.
i am therefore pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to adopt the reach proposal in the light of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
since the beginning of the debate on a new european chemicals law, i have been campaigning for the european commission's proposal to be revised with the aim of protecting the environment and health in europe better than before, but reducing excessive bureaucratic requirements.
this is impractical, bureaucratic and not necessary for the protection of the environment and health.
this continent, the ecological lung of the world, is rich in natural resources beyond compare.
as regards the creation of a climate favourable to stable and predictable investment, we have, as you know, proposed to this end a permanent european forum bringing together african and european entrepreneurs and the creation of infrastructure in the broadest sense including water, energy, ict and transport, as provided for in the framework of the europe-africa partnership on infrastructure.
the african countries are clearly distinguishable in terms of their social, cultural, economic, political and ecological development.
eu development cooperation must have the global objective of reducing and ultimately eradicating poverty in the context of sustainable development.
but it will not work because the third world countries are now fighting back, because they are making their own interests visible and are using their cultural, social and ecological property and the right to basic food against the intellectual property that we want to sell them in the form of services at a high price.
we need a new international hierarchy of standards which balances trade interests on the one hand with social human rights and environmental and consumer standards on the other.
i think that much more energy needs to be put into this, and the time is right.
it was a very inspiring meeting, and it talks about how to open up space to improve not only dialogue, but also the environment for freedom and democracy in these countries.
the european parliament should, however, reserve the right to send experts of its confidence to selected agencies, such as the european environment agency in copenhagen or the observatory on racism and xenophobia in vienna.
my motion is supported by the author of this paragraph, mr florenz of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and by the rapporteur on regulatory agencies, mr papastamkos.
the reduction and prevention of waste from batteries is a priority of this directive.
the committee on the environment and the council have agreed to a ban on cadmium and mercury only for portable batteries.
in the case of rechargeable batteries and accumulators, which are already a very small waste, we must also take into account other characteristics: energy efficiency, life span and, of course, price to the consumer.
as regards cadmium in particular, the amount of cadmium we absorb in europe via our environment is well below what the who considers to be a health hazard.
the fundamental problem with batteries and accumulators is not their energy, but their components, cadmium, lead and mercury.
the toxicity of these components and their environmental impact are generally well known.
the learning programme implemented therein raises environmental awareness and behaviour among our fellow citizens.
although the high rates cannot be achieved everywhere and at all times, the requirement documents the world's leading environmental awareness and action in the european union.
the protection of the environment is important and my stated objective as an environmental politician.
if the british presidency had taken any steps towards this - for example, in the friends of the presidency round on the new interinstitutional agreement - and had spent less energy on making it happen in this form, we would be a long way ahead today.
i welcome the fact that we will be adopting the directive on energy efficiency and energy services tomorrow.
member states have to save at least 9% of their energy over nine years.
from mid-2007, member states will have to draw up and send to brussels energy efficiency action plans on a regular basis, i.e.
these action plans include member states' actions to achieve the objectives, such as building renovation programmes, the promotion of energy-efficient appliances, the promotion of energy audits, car-free days or large-scale education or information campaigns.
the directive also aims to set new energy efficiency standards across europe through indicators and benchmarks.
20-30% of today's energy consumption can be saved without economic loss.
this is equivalent to the energy consumption of six member states, namely austria, belgium, denmark, finland, greece and the netherlands combined.
in times of high energy prices, it is completely incomprehensible that this potential is not being used more.
this directive must and can lead to a real energy efficiency offensive.
we have a considerable catch-up on the energy demand side.
the directive also aims to create a genuine market for energy services, services offered by distributors and sellers of energy and/or independent service providers.
another important effect of the new european law will be to increase transparency for consumers, for example, individual meters for energy consumption, a regular billing system that is oriented to consumption and allows a comparison with one's own consumption and that of a comparison group.
commissioner piebalgs, you have made energy efficiency your priority.
it is true that energy efficiency is a very important instrument for solving europe's energy problem, but it is not the only means.
we need incentives to create transparency, we need less red tape, because data is already available in many areas, we need market-oriented approaches, because suppliers of energy-efficient equipment then have a selling point and a vested interest in ensuring that the energy efficiency markets in the individual countries are not further fragmented but become more uniform.
there is a huge opportunity to work towards a common goal in the field of energy efficiency.
our strategy away from oil, towards more renewable energy, towards research, towards small and medium-sized enterprises, but also towards culture is exactly what reaches directly to the people on the ground and also to their hearts.
i urge you to ensure that not only is there a common european spirit, as in the case of the 2006 budget, but that the council in particular is aware that what is at stake is our common europe and the further development of this europe, an agreement that takes account of both the new countries and the possibilities of making europe fit for the future, in order to give young people and ourselves a chance on the world market with new ecological products.
member states want the eu to become more active in the common foreign and security policy, to fight terrorism and crime, to subsidize agriculture, to pursue environmental and consumer protection policies, to provide development aid, etc.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
moreover, we have underlined that in both serbia and montenegro it is now essential for us to focus our energy on the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement and not let other issues interrupt that process.
i am glad that you, as a trained environmental politician, are here when we take a good step forward in the adoption of the road costs directive, a sustainable european transport policy.
these external costs of environmental, noise, congestion and health can be calculated, although mr bradbourn does not see it that way.
and as for the environmental costs, please remember that every truck, every car also pays motor vehicle and mineral oil taxes.
this will take place in a changed climate, as mr millán mon has mentioned, because the union is in a constitutional crisis.
the council's debate on macedonia is symptomatic of this changed climate.
we have tabled our amendments to the van orden report on the environment and human rights, and unfortunately they have been rejected.
as regards the date of the closure of the kosloduy nuclear power station, mr rehn, i would like to ask you what the commission's view is on paragraph 29, which provides for greater flexibility in relation to the closure of units 3 and 4. what are the alternative sources of energy envisaged?
question no 13 by mrs fiona hall (h-0997/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy efficiency and the seat of the edp council has stated that it wishes to see the public sector set an example in the field of energy efficiency at the end-use level.
does the council share the view that the european parliament's monthly commute between brussels and strasbourg is an example of inefficient use of energy in the public sector, and what measures does the council propose to remedy this, given that it alone has the power to decide on the seat of the parliament?
we could easily abolish the mini-plenary sessions in brussels and save enormous amounts of energy.
of course, we all know that sustainable production is of great importance for europe, also from the point of view of the lisbon strategy.
we must be careful that gasprom, the semi-state russian energy giant, does not start playing the role in europe that the united fruit company once played in latin america.
i am very grateful to mr deiss for ensuring that we finally put more emphasis on renewable energy, because this unilateral dependence of europe on russia for energy is leading to a situation in which we are beginning to keep a dead silence about what must not be kept a dead silence.