firstly, the new constitutional treaty gives us values not only in terms of democracy and human rights but also in terms of the environment and social responsibility, which are enshrined in our constitutional treaty.
there must also be some earth energy and raw materials for the offspring.
it must be possible to be an environmental pioneer country.
it is very important that you do not allow yourself to be pressured by old-fashioned thinking in the european union to focus first on economic productivity and then see if we can afford more welfare and possibly also social security and the environment.
we must insist on the european social model, economic productivity, social justice and environmental investment - that is the european way.
i listened to what the president of the council, mr jean-claude juncker, said not long ago, when he stressed that the balance between the economy, social conditions and the environment is the european way.
the large-scale expropriation of land combined with the settlement policy makes it difficult to see the possibilities for a sustainable palestinian state.
we can put it this way: no successful reform without economic growth and no sustainable economic growth without reform.
if you cannot find them in the existing funds mentioned, let me remind you that we have just won a majority in the committee on the environment to also start looking at pillar 1, where almost all the eu's money is.
it is a huge waste of both human and financial resources.
the introduction of laws in the member states or clear collective agreements between the social partners is needed, and the practical work of ensuring a better working environment can be much improved.
with ten new member states joining the eu, we are faced with a major challenge in creating a good and safe working environment in the new countries.
i would also like to thank the commissioner for stressing that in europe, in accordance with the lisbon objectives, we must compete on knowledge and not on bad wages or environmental destruction.
we want this agreement to be extended to all countries that meet the criteria for sustainable development, regardless of their size.
i should like to say that i was very pleased with jean-claude juncker's remark some time ago when he said: 'let us now stop the debate on what comes first and let us insist that in europe things come at the same time, we improve our competitiveness, we are making social reforms - also in the labour market - and we are making environmental reforms at the same time.'
i would like to conclude by urging the luxembourg presidency and the commission to increase demand in europe, to coordinate macroeconomic investment, because i assure you that without strong economic growth we will not have a popular understanding of reforms, and without reforms we will not have sustainable economic growth.
the commission is not mr president first of all, i would like to thank all the members of the committee on the environment for their cooperation.
the environment agency in copenhagen has repeatedly drawn attention to the alarming situation and we must reverse it.
in poland i have seen how the danish and american giant pig farms spread themselves in a fine and vulnerable environment without regard for biodiversity.
in denmark, many farmers hoard pollution permits in natura 2000 areas.
we are talking about environmental considerations in general and not just natura 2000, and we know that unless these funds are linked by specific commitments and conditions, the objective cannot be achieved.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of foodstuffs.
there are actions which the commission considers eligible for funding under life plus, such as initiatives in the field of communication, support for the establishment of local partnerships for the specific promotion of natura 2000 areas and sites, the development of initiatives relating to the marine environment, which is a very important aspect, and innovative schemes for the protection of animal or plant species.
however, the commission understands that this proposal offers the possibility of supporting activities aimed at developing the marine environment.
in this spirit, the possibility of financing activities to promote the marine environment will also be considered.
we must of course require that imported sugar is produced in accordance with and in accordance with the same social and environmental standards for sugar production in europe as we know.
to impose a quota on all other countries and eu social and environmental standards is to fail the 'everything but arms' agreement, which says that by 2009 the least developed countries should be free to sell sugar to the eu.
we believe that this would be an unnecessary waste of transport without contributing to road safety to an extent that justifies the high cost of this proposal.
both rail and maritime transport, which are much better for the environment and road safety, have no chance against the far too cheap road transport.
aircraft fuel is one of the most significant contributors to the greenhouse effect.
similarly, more should be done to improve our working environment so that we avoid accidents at work and work-related diseases.
an improved environment will also have a positive impact on public health in general, creating healthier citizens who in turn will free up resources for health care.
the commission is fully aware that the problem facing us today is a real problem for the citizens, a problem which causes a waste of time, costs and above all a sense of injustice.
in denmark we have by far the most bans on the use of pesticides, but the eu is now going to lift some of them, and this shows that the constitution's talk of a high level of protection can remove the highest protection, and it also shows that the so-called environmental guarantee is mostly propaganda.
the amendments of the june motion are designed to ensure that action is taken as soon as pollution can be measured, and if this is not adopted, i would urge the commission to state that countries where groundwater is consumed directly without treatment can introduce better protection.
this means supporting sustainable economic, social and environmental development, promoting the gradual integration of developing countries into the world economy and combating inequality.
in these countries, the union's cooperation with the world bank, through the commission, aims to ensure that the policies implemented are complementary and contribute to the incorporation of the community acquis, with particular emphasis on institutional development, the environment and its infrastructures, economic reform and the development of the private sector.
it is a well-functioning and far-reaching programme and i was therefore very pleased when a unanimous committee on industry, research and energy backed my proposal for an increase in the budget.
nutrition and health claims today, crucial questions concerning the danish environment and health were put to the vote.
in the alde group we particularly welcome the efforts made in research, education and investment in transport and energy.
as you know, tacis has a lot of resources to solve environmental problems, to solve border control issues.
protectionism, tariffs and trade barriers are not sustainable solutions.
support for the outermost regions must be based on sustainable development.
we are all glad that the great and poor china is getting back on its feet and developing, but at the same time it is important to draw attention to the terrible social and environmental conditions.
if these rules were to apply, we would not be able to import a drop of oil from saudi arabia, which does not even know how to spell human rights, but where you never hear about human rights and the environment, etc.
the rich countries must have open markets and we must make demands: ilo demands and demands for compliance with the convention on the rights of the child and the other environmental conventions.
an energy plan based on energy savings and with energy from renewable sources, solar, wind, wave power and with hydrogen as the energy carrier is more than enough to meet the needs of the planet.
at the same time, it is highly energy efficient and clean.
there is therefore no need to take up farmland for energy purposes.
this is an efficient and clean biofuel, but it is not of such a scale that it deserves to be included in an overall plan for energy supply.
bioenergy is not a renewable energy source, but a renewable source.
by making ethanol from grain, clovergrass, and wood biomass is less than the fossil energy inputs.
grain uses 29% more energy than it produces, crop grass 29% and wood 57% pimentel - natural resources research, vol.14, no.1, march 2005. finally, the eu should not dictate the energy choices of individual countries, especially when they are based on such dubious grounds.
environment, good governance, peace building, strengthening the private sector, trade, consideration of women and equality have become a central part of the driving force for development, although i now miss it a little in the commissioner's speech.
they are misleading us when they say, for example, that it is more energy efficient to use their toxic gases.
in fact, virtually all energy-efficient refrigerators, i.e.
in fact, in denmark, thanks to strict legislation and a modern industry which really wants to do good for the environment, we have developed alternatives and we can say that we are able to meet the highest standards, and it would be a complete scandal if we were to be kicked back again by an old-fashioned sunset industry which only thinks of itself.
i do not understand why we should put such a burden on the environment when we consider how few countries in the world actually need air conditioning in their cars.
mr president, f-gases can destroy the ozone layer and it is therefore important that all countries are encouraged to make extra efforts to get rid of f-gases.
however, neither the commission nor mrs doyle's proposal explicitly contains the sustainable ban.
i have therefore tabled amendment no 45 with hans blokland, which clarifies that all countries are allowed to go further in protecting the ozone layer against f-gases.
i want to make sure that we can maintain our prohibition and thereby the incentive to create the sustainable alternatives.
the commission stands for total harmonization rather than environmental promotion, the ozone hole rather than the ozone layer, the past rather than our common future.
thirdly, europe must play the role of the social conscience of the world in relation to development, the environment and workers' rights.
the committee on transport and tourism has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
it is unacceptable that in our relatively enlightened age we allow a huge number of chemical substances into our environment without having registered them and without knowing their harmful effects.
i belong to a party which would like to see the position of the committee on the environment implemented as it was before the compromises now being made.
we regret that there is no majority for the original proposals of the committee on the environment.
i do not think that reach will be the last piece of legislation we will adopt in this area, because we are constantly learning about the need to protect the environment of the planet.
we don't know what harmful effects they have on our environment.
but the therapy was also in the right romantic and exclusive environment, so you had every chance.
in addition to the input we have received from the council on tony blair's commission for africa and the un summit, there are many good elements in the commission's proposal on poverty reduction, the environment and good governance.
if prices are to be regulated at all, it must be to benefit the environment or the workers.
it must be stated, however, that the danish social democrats in the european parliament cannot support the eu's financial contribution to the proliferation of nuclear energy, either within or outside the community.