the next item is the statement by the commission on the outcome of the 10th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, held in buenos aires.
mr president, i believe that the european commission has been the one that has fought the most and the one that has raised the world's awareness of the problem of climate change.
in this sense, i believe that, after the meetings that have taken place successively in kyoto and elsewhere, it is necessary, and i believe it is urgent, to develop comprehensive work on climate change.
in this connection, i would like to see one of the proposals of this parliament to be to look more closely at the relationship between agriculture and the environment.
for example, if one hectare of orange trees produces 40,000 kilos a year or 4 tonnes of greenery and firewood, is this beneficial or not for climate change?
what is mediterranean agriculture contributing to climate change, for example?
this confrontation between agriculture and the environment must end, and one of the ways to do that is to see the benefits of agriculture in the co2 sinks it is creating, as well as to see which reforestation is the most appropriate and which is the best for the environment, and in this way to set up positive policies that serve to meet all activities, not only industrial, but also agricultural.
for the same reason, if, as the latest report says, spain, greece and the mediterranean are the countries that will suffer the most from the impact of climate change, i believe it is the commission's responsibility to put studies and solutions on the table.
in the forthcoming spring european council, which will be the first important step in the european union's discussion on our future climate change strategy, the commission will make a communication, which my colleagues and i are currently preparing.
the decision to hold a seminar in may to discuss current and new responses to climate change provides a promising opening to the dialogue and the debate for a global climate policy after 2012. the agreement to establish a work programme for adaptation is also a very important breakthrough, not only for the developed countries but also, and even more so, for the developing countries.
we also need to continue to show that we are serious about it and that we are taking the fight against climate change seriously.
as i mentioned previously, norway, canada and japan have shown interest and we should see how we can cooperate with the united states which – except the nine north-eastern states and california – have trading systems for other greenhouse gases, but not for carbon dioxide.
cooperation with local and regional authorities could be very interesting, especially to get support for fighting climate change in countries around the world, and in terms of our contacts with developing countries, such as india and china – and here i must acknowledge, as someone has already said, that the small island states were our allies.
in our contacts with these countries, it is important to place the benefits of addressing climate change in the broader context of sustainable development.
on local air pollution, mr blokland suggested that we stress the benefits in other sectors, and addressing climate change will bring important benefits to these countries.
it is very important to stress the eco-innovation and environmental technologies which could be very competitive and could give the benefit of first-mover advantage to european industry and to the industries of those countries, so that they really innovate in an environmentally friendly way.
mr blokland asked whether the chemical industry would be included in the eu emissions trading directive.
however, we are holding discussions on what will happen after the end of the first phase of emissions trading.
this includes a biofuels directive and a directive on electricity from renewable energy sources.
last year's commission communication on renewable energy announced a biomass action plan, which should be submitted by the end of 2005. biomass emissions are neutral.
there are no allowances for emissions caused by the consumption of biomass.
even there – i have heard certain people say that there are questions about the scientific proof of the anthropogenic causes of climate change and its impact – there are very recent reports, published in 2004, proving beyond doubt that climate change is caused by human activity.
however, we have to find a way to include them in our endeavour to fight climate change.
we do not know what impact climate change will have, nor what areas of the world it will affect.
science has proven that climate change caused by human activity should be fought against.
with your cooperation, the european union will continue to play a leading role in the fight against climate change.
the demanding 'yes' that we greens are defending is to choose to make constructive use of the new european political space in favour of the social and ecological europe we want.
we wanted, and still want, to make the european union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, an economy capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment, an economy generating greater social cohesion, an economy respectful of the environment and natural resources.
the lisbon strategy, a name which i think most people do not understand, is in fact a strategy for competitiveness, growth, social cohesion and environmental protection.
the second point is that, as we draw up the interim report, we must keep the three dimensions of the strategy together: economic, social and environmental.
no, the competitiveness we must regain must enable us to achieve stronger and more sustainable growth and must be aimed at greater social cohesion and a more harmoniously balanced environment.
(applause) i would like to thank so please, let us not start a stupid and fruitless debate about whether we need more competitiveness and therefore less social cohesion, or more social cohesion and less environmental.
if europe is to be strong, it needs three things, three things that go together: better competitiveness, greater social cohesion, a better ecological environment.
(applause) i say yes to competitiveness, i say no to abandoning our social and ecological ambitions.
we have the broad economic policy guidelines, the employment guidelines, the sustainable development strategy, the internal market strategy, the charter for small and mediumsized enterprises, the cologne process, the cardiff process and so on.
the cox report stresses that the quality of legislation is one of the determining factors in improving the economic environment.
however, i would like to say that, beyond the economic environment, better legislation is also crucial to improving the understanding and confidence of european citizens in the european construction.
i think we can all agree that economic competitiveness, the environment and social achievements are very important for our europe.
i sincerely believe that when it comes to environmental and social acquis, we have little to learn and little to do to catch up with our partners.
children, now orphaned or isolated from their families, are particularly vulnerable in this environment.
finally, there are areas where we really disagree, for example on climate change, the international criminal court and the death penalty.
the best proof of the maturity of the transatlantic relationship would be if we spoke less about this relationship in general and more about the tasks we will set ourselves together to make this world a safer world with a more balanced economic, social and ecological development.
that being said, it is clear that the eu-us relationship must adapt to the changing security environment and to changing global priorities.
there are also issues on which our views fundamentally differ, such as how to tackle climate change, and on some aspects of human rights and international law.
we want to continue this preference for effective multilateralism by working closely with the united states on issues such as united nations reform and climate change.
we in the european parliament have repeatedly called for the creation of a european coastguard service which, in addition to meeting the needs of people who, because of their precarious situation, are forced to enter europe by crossing our seas with difficulty, could also serve to control the marine pollution affecting our coasts.
the official languages of origin in which the basic treaties are drawn up, each of which is equally authentic, are currently 21 in accordance with article 53 of the treaty on european union, article 314 of the treaty establishing the european community and article 225 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community.
i shall not waste my limited time reiterating the arguments which have been put forward by other colleagues and with which i feel completely identified.
they include trade facilitation, the promotion of good governance and respect for human rights, understanding and combating the devastating influence of incitement to hatred, the easing of access to and promotion of respect for international humanitarian law, and encouraging cooperation on very practical issues that we hope will lead to an improvement in living conditions – the environment, water, energy and transport.
it is clear that a lot is changing in this complex equation between war and peace in palestine: the satisfactory result of the elections in which the union and parliament took part - and i would also like to mention the efforts of mr rocard and mr mcmillan-scott and others - the fact that we have to congratulate ourselves on the situation in which support for terrorism is found, which has fallen in the region from 65% to 40% since june - these figures have to be reduced still further - the need to consolidate a truce with extremist organisations and the effort being made by the new president of the palestinian national authority to this end, which has created a new climate of dialogue, and the gradual persuasion of the israeli government that there is a viable palestinian state, and at the same time the evacuation of gaza and the west bank.
all these conditions, mr president, are creating a new climate and i believe that the parties must take a decision, must take risks in order to resume the process and must also in some way encourage and resolve these kinds of situations by resuming the roadmap.
we now come to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on mrs ries' report on the european environment and health action plan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of biodiversity is undoubtedly a political priority for the commission and the successful implementation of the natura 2000 framework is the cornerstone of the european union's efforts to achieve this objective.
in accordance with the practice followed, the contents of this document will be the subject of consultations with all the departments concerned, including the directorate-general for the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment of natural habitats is a very good one.
in particular, with regard to the national rural development programmes, for which mr florenz said earlier that there would be a competitive relationship, each programme submitted will be examined in detail to ensure that it takes account of both the community legislative framework and policy priorities on issues such as biodiversity, the management of natura 2000 sites, climate change, the implementation of water resources ideas and other issues.
however, i think we are very frustrated because the issue has been tackled against the comprehensive concepts that all sustainability requires and, moreover, we have fallen back into the old problem of considering natura 2000 as a crystallized territory, without life or activity.
we cannot introduce the concept of natura 2000 without visualising the large families of biodiversity, because each requires different financial instruments.
finally, i would say that if we do not bring nature into the market economy, we have achieved nothing, because nature is life, economy and sustainability.
in the consultation that the european commission once held with civil society, all actors - from farmers to environmental organisations - were in favour of funding this initiative through a separate and single fund, as this would be the only possible formula to oblige the european union to make a funding effort.
the financing of a substantial part of the cost of natura 2000 through rural development is not only a pipe dream, but its inclusion within the axis of agri-environmental measures could call into question the efforts made by european farmers to respect the eco-conditionality to which the recently launched cap reform obliges them.
i would like to say, mr president, that i myself attach great importance to this issue, because we urgently need a strong rail transport industry to prevent europe from being forced to resort systematically to road transport, which would be both harmful to the environment and, through the traffic congestion it would cause, to the european mobility we need for europe's competitiveness and for the comfort of its citizens.
this is what the oceana report on marine pollution says, which has also been quoted by mr piecyk.
but this report says more, for example that some 3 000 illegal oil spills are detected every year, but that deliberate discharges may be much more because, for example, in the busiest port in the european union and one of the most important in the world, rotterdam, only 7% of the ships that call there deposit their waste from bilge tanks at the port collection facilities.
we must adopt as soon as possible more effective control regulations to prevent the more than 77 000 deaths of birds per year from oil spills and the unquantified deaths of cetaceans, sea turtles, fish species, marine fauna and flora in general, as well as legislation that also tackles pollution of coasts and beaches everywhere.
it is necessary, in the development of the accompanying measures set out in article 10 of the directive we are discussing today, to require all ships to have these black boxes installed, to have waste reception facilities in all ports without exception and to set up national and community systems for recording controlled legal discharges and for public information on illegal discharges and the penalties applied in such cases.
the international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage also needs to be increased and regularly updated, adjusted to the actual damage caused and with a more appropriate weighting of the contributions of shipowners, owners, charterers and recipients of oil cargo.
as a result of my special connection with the balearic islands in spain, i must express my personal satisfaction at the adoption of these measures which will contribute to ensuring adequate safety and life for seafarers and to protecting the marine environment.
this report confirms my conviction that sustainable resources and healthy fishing practices are not possible without a policy of control without hypocrisy and without suspicion.
as regards the kyoto protocol, i pointed out to him the importance which the european parliament had always attached to this international agreement and the need for the united states to contribute to the indispensable efforts needed to give it its full dimension, and that we should continue to collaborate or at least to dialogue so that we all contribute to the solution of this global problem; if not through the protocol, whose signature they had not decided, then through all possible instruments in the field of technological development to deal with global environmental problems.
we must share a model of values and objectives, of democracy and absolute respect for human rights, of security, of a negotiated solution to all the conflicts in the region, in one part of the mediterranean and in another, of the fight against terrorism and, of course, also of disarmament, of cooperation for eco-development and respect for the environment and of progressive management of migratory flows.
i repeat, mr president, what this parliament has adopted as the final stage of a process in which we have been deeply involved, because we believe that the 12 days of the orange revolution have served not only to demonstrate the strength of the democratic aspirations of your country but also to demonstrate the capacity of the european union to act politically in its immediate environment.
transfrontier cooperation, energy networks and the like will become ways of fleshing out our cooperation in concrete terms, from baku to the western frontiers of the european union.
it is the right time to know the commission's and the council's views, not only on important and topical issues such as the situation in africa or climate change, but also to intensify our financial efforts with a view to increasing development aid, to keep within the framework of the millennium agenda and, above all, to be able to take a leading and responsible attitude on this subject so essential for the future of humanity.
as regards, in general, the gradual transition to a quota-free environment, it should be noted that this is not an unforeseen event.
the commission has adopted a series of seven actions to deal with this new environment without quotas.
finally, as regards the consequences of the expiry of the agreement on textiles and clothing for developing countries and the measures that the european union could take under articles 177 and 178 of the treaty, let me first mention two of the three objectives of our development cooperation as set out in the treaty: the sustainable development of developing countries - and particularly the most disadvantaged among them - and the integration of the poorest countries into the world economy.
you have indeed spoken a quarter of the council's time, but i do not interpret this from the presidency's point of view as a desire on the part of the council to waste the commission's time but as a desire on the part of the council to save the commission work, in the best spirit of interinstitutional cooperation.
additionally, in the framework of other dialogues between the commission and the chinese authorities, the commission has requested that the issue of the sustainable development of the textile sector, and in particular the question of corporate social responsibility, be put on the agenda.
the commission hopes that this will contribute to having the rather strict chinese labour and environmental laws properly enforced.
however, we are not only concerned about the budget, but also about social and environmental objectives, because we all want a bigger pie, but what matters first of all are the ingredients of the pie and how it is cooked and, last but not least, how this european research pie is distributed.
more public support for basic research is needed, with medium- and long-term social and environmental objectives, not just short-term technological performance.
we must also invest in climate protection and not allocate all or much of our energy investment to nuclear programmes.
at the moment, renewable energy needs support at least as high as that of the iter or euratom programmes.
indeed, the priorities of support to poverty reduction, human rights and conflict mitigation are more urgent in the new environment.
they continue to be victims of physical, psychological, sexual and economic violence, sometimes from their immediate emotional environment.
fourth, additional gsp benefits – gsp+ – will be available for the first time to those countries that encourage sustainable development.
it comes in only three forms: the general arrangement; everything but arms for less-developed countries, which remains unchanged; and a new special arrangement to promote sustainable development and good governance.
the new gsp scheme is a clear example of an integrated approach to trade policy and sustainable development and i am sure will be welcomed by members here for that reason.
the new incentive for sustainable development and governance will support our commitment to core human and labour rights and environmental protection in the framework of our existing trade policy.
the first gsp regulation of the 21st century should reaffirm the european union's leadership in promoting trade and sustainable development in the world.
mr president, there is a disturbing fact, namely that the international atomic energy agency has detected more than a dozen cases of nuclear material disappearing, which now represents a potential danger of the use of these weapons.
the path indicated by mr schmit for the continuation of the dialogue is an interesting one, and i think we must follow it, but we must not forget that in the case of iran, on 1 march last, iaea inspectors were denied access to the parchin military complex and that, in turn, the international atomic energy agency has confirmed that iran is building underground tunnels for the storage of nuclear material and equipment, and that north korea has between 20 and 30 kilos of plutonium in the yongbyon nuclear reactor, in addition to one of the largest nuclear arsenals in the world.
question no 28 by bernd posselt (h-0108/05) subject: energy dependence on russia to what extent is the enlarged eu dependent on russian oil and gas supplies?
we are pursuing an eu-russia energy dialogue and we also have an eu-russia dialogue.
so i expect the russian energy sector to develop healthily.
russia will, for the foreseeable future, remain our partner in buying energy resources.
question no 29 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0154/05) subject: connecting the energy networks of western and eastern europe despite the evolution of the political situation, and in particular the accession of the baltic states to the european union, the energy networks of these countries remain connected to the russian grid.
does the commission consider it important in general to interconnect the energy networks of the former eastern bloc with those of western europe?
this link connects the baltic states with the eu’s energy systems.
but at least it provides interconnection between the baltic energy grid and the central european energy grid.
question no 30 by ryszard czarnecki (h-0157/05) subject: harmonisation of energy legislation energy legislation in the eu member states is disparate in practice.
this makes it difficult to establish a single european energy market and therefore to ensure the free movement of energy services at both european and international level.
the european parliament urges and encourages the commission to redouble its efforts to convince the member states - to which we also offer our help and support - and urges it to use all the means at its disposal to be more creative and to propose the synergies that can be created between the three types of networks - transport, energy and telecommunications - in order to reduce costs and obtain sufficient resources.
we also support the amendment relating to a sustainable development model for transport, which we consider to be fundamental, including renewal and technological innovation for transport.
secondly, the single market must be completed, giving priority to the liberalisation of the markets for communications, energy and financial services.
we need energy responses that deliver results in a few years.
the greens believe that the seventh framework programme must provide these answers through its investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy, which do provide rapid responses to this situation.
we are concerned about the priority given to dangerous energies of the past, which are likely to be used by international terrorism, such as nuclear energy.
we are also concerned about the massive focus on investment in energy projects such as iter fusion, which will not produce a single kilowatt of energy in 40 or 50 years, according to the scientists themselves.
we want the outcome of the seventh framework programme to be favourable to quality of life and society, public health, preventive health, sustainable transport in our cities and the social science needed to take a reflective view of what we are researching and the society we are making.
firstly, because it does not distinguish between the different families of natura 2000 sites, such as forests, agricultural land - which accounts for the majority of the land - where the land is cultivated or where there is a protected natural environment, and, for example, rivers, the sea and the seabed.
on the other hand, to finance rural development, a previous educational activity should have been carried out, because, in fact, the environment and agriculture are relatively incompatible and because the natura 2000 policy itself has meant the expropriation and limitation of activity for many owners.
in addition, the necessary work has not been done to see to what extent, within rural development, there is a part of the natural environment that could even serve to inspire the farmers with a future project of conservation of the landscape and the environment.
in my view, parliament and biodiversity deserved a better document.
three months ago i had the opportunity to meet the director-general for the environment, mrs day, who made it quite clear that she had no intention of creating her own natura 2000 fund, however legitimate our requests in this house.
the socialists therefore support the commitment which the committee on the environment has so far agreed to.
we do not understand them, because i do not think it is worthwhile to divide us at the last minute and to break up the great common effort that has been achieved in the committee on the environment.
i call for the house to reach consensus on the efforts made in the committee on the environment, particularly in paragraph five.
we are concerned, commissioner, about the financing of natura 2000. we agree with the strategic approach, but we also want to ensure adequate funding for natura 2000, and we are very much afraid that if projects of environmental interest have to compete with others considered to be of greater socioeconomic interest, the former will be harmed, especially when - as you very well said - the budget is limited.
the commission is proposing a new system of farm prices, which is not yet in force, and the impact of the reductions in prices and quotas on the incomes of family farms, the loss of jobs in industry and the impact on the rural environment of the member states concerned are not taken into account in the impact study.
one of the objectives of the cap reform is to combine the production of quality products with respect for the environment, and it is precisely this type of agriculture that is the fundamental pillar for achieving this dual objective.
organic farming must become an integral part of a production system that respects the environment.
the commission's annual contribution to the global fund is eur 259 million for the period 2003-2006. it should enable it to support programmes proposed by countries for the production of insecticide-impregnated nets with sustainable efficacy and medicines.
you are aware of the legitimate questions about the correct and timely implementation of the acquis, particularly in the field of justice and home affairs, as regards romania, and in particular competition and environment policy.
in particular, this covers the effective implementation of reforms of the public administration and the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the fulfilment of the commitments made in the field of competition and state aid, as well as the environment.
mr president, in supporting the reports we are discussing, the committee on industry, research and energy would like to stress that in the fields of research, energy, industrial policy and telecommunications, both countries need to make a further effort.
they need to reform their industrial policy; they need to remove structural obstacles to investment and excessive bureaucracy; and they need to have a stable legislative environment to ensure an efficient strategy for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are real job creators and sources of technological innovation.
they must also continue to work on an energy security policy.
the allocation for this fund seems to us clearly insufficient to meet our needs, which are supplemented by improved enforcement of the rules, greater guarantees of data protection and quality and objectivity in scientific information, and we are also asked to guarantee sustainable development and the proper management of natural resources, as well as support for the setting up of the new regional councils.
in particular, they contain stronger wording for the prospect of further reductions in the future, clarification of the date of application in the north sea, conditions for the supply and distribution of fuel so that ship operators are aware of their obligations, exemption from the application of the limits on the distance from the quay for ships using clean energy from shore, obligation for ships using emission reduction technology to have continuous emission monitoring equipment.
even more important is the compromise package which contains much stronger wording on the possibility of even lower thresholds, which may reach up to 0.5% at the time of the commission's review in 2008. the amendment to the review clause requires the commission to investigate the economic effectiveness of any further measures, to take account of the development of emission reduction technologies, to consider proposals for the introduction of economic instruments to incentivise industry to develop new environmental technologies.
recognising that the new 1,5% sulphur limit for marine fuels will remain 1500 times higher than the sulphur content of road transport fuels, the commission firmly believes that shipping can and should lower this limit in order to maintain its environmental credibility.
this is why the commission has prepared a statement clearly stating its commitment to a far-reaching review of the directive in 2008. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
i put this question to commissioner potočnik in his first appearance before the committee on industry, research and energy of our parliament, who expressed interest in the proposal and undertook to study it.
this is what we define as sustainability and we see long-term management plans as the right legislative instrument for achieving this.
as always, our shared commitment to achieving sustainability in fisheries remains unwavering.
the exclusion of this fish from the recovery plan should not, under any circumstances, mean that measures are not being taken to enable it to be recovered and managed in a sustainable way, and in this connection you are aware that the national authorities are drawing up an emergency plan for this particular fishery.
at the end of january 2005, the portuguese authorities requested recognition of the drought as a force majeure under article 39 of regulation (ec) no 817/2004 and to accept derogations to certain conditions concerning the agri-environment measure.
the european commission therefore has a responsibility to study, anticipate and plan for the consequences of climate change, which is not just for big political speeches in big debates, but has immediate, and sometimes dramatic, consequences for the economies of countries, as is shown in this case.
a number of you mentioned the need to take a wider look at the issue and at the causes of this kind of drought, which range from climate change to forestry policy.
they certainly give me much food for thought and demonstrate parliament’s commitment to sustainable development, a commitment that is shared fully by the commission.
it is surprising that the european union has not yet developed and implemented a short- and long-term strategy to combat drought and desertification, which is one of the main threats to economic and social sustainability in the southern and mediterranean countries.
but the lack of a joint plan between the countries and the committee (agriculture and environment) is all the more striking when the european environment agency recently highlighted that the areas most negatively affected by the expected climate change are the mediterranean countries.
we are continuously stressing our concerns about the climate of impunity reigning in the country, the confrontational politics, the mounting attacks against the tribal people of the chittagong hill tracts and the ahmadiyya community and the extrajudicial killings in ‘crossfire’ by special police forces.
thursday:debate on the report by mrs fraga estévez on the sustainable exploitation of mediterranean fisheries resources is adjourned until a later part-session.
our aim is to strengthen all the instruments and bodies in the service of human rights in a spirit of concerted and coordinated work in order to achieve effective action and to avoid any duplication which would be an irresponsible waste of our resources.
finally, the european union must promote a series of binding regulations on companies in order to hold them accountable for the possible negative impacts of their activities on the environment, the social and labour dimension of people and peoples and human rights in general.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
and finally, we must say that many of parliament's amendments, from our point of view, make the situation worse, because they seek to standardise all aquifers and all control of substances, when we know precisely that the geology of europe is very diverse and the concept of geological diversity in europe must be a cornerstone of this policy, because sustainable development must be appropriate to each site.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs klaß, and all the other members on the work done to supplement the groundwater protection provisions in the framework directive to prevent and control groundwater pollution and to establish criteria for assessing the good chemical status of groundwater bodies.
on the other hand, and given that measures to prevent or limit the ingress of pollutants into groundwater are a vital element of this proposal for a directive, it would be very important, contrary to what the honourable member who has preceded me on the floor has said, to get the amendment on article 6 which we have tabled with other honourable members approved, so that member states control indirect discharges on the basis of best environmental practices and sufficient techniques to prevent such discharges.
secondly, i would like to express my disappointment at the lack of interest shown by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development of this parliament, in particular those calling for the element of 'quantity of water' to be taken into account in determining the factors contributing to groundwater pollution.
the council received a new proposal for a regulation on this subject on 27 july 2004. the proposal aims to improve the financing of the transeuropean transport and energy networks for the period 2007-13. the relevant council working party has examined the text only once.
projects will be selected on the basis of the state of preparation of the project, the soundness of the financial package and the environmental impact.
i would like to conclude by referring to the necessary flexibility and provision of additionality at the various levels of funding, both at community, national and regional level, as well as public and private, including possible synergies between transport and energy networks.
many honourable members have mentioned this, the commission understands it and since 2002 there has been a strategy which was designed following the visit of the previous commissioner responsible for external relations and adopted at the end of 2002. the main objectives are the promotion of stability and security in the area, sustainable economic development, with special priority given to poverty reduction and the defence of human rights.
and in developing this strategy, since one of the european union's main economic interests in the area is energy resources, the meeting with the energy ministers in november last year is of great importance, and we believe that we must continue along this line.
in the face of this bleak environment, our democratic structures often give the impression of being stuck and powerless.
let us also be careful not to build a europe that benefits a few and at the same time is rife with situations of social exclusion, violence in all its forms, unemployment and disregard for the preservation of our environment.
are not within the context of the wto, but are important, as is environmental protection, and in this connection i would like to remind you that china signed the kyoto protocol two years ago.
it is not a question of calling into question the decision taken on 1 january to liberalize the market completely, but of examining, for example, the extent to which a dumping policy can invade markets, how energy can be subsidised, how the financing policy is being implemented and whether there is preferential financing, etc.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the spanish authorities could also, as in the case of portugal, consider derogating from the application of certain measures, such as agri-environmental measures, by notifying the commission of cases recognised as 'force majeure' under commission regulation 817/2004.
the spanish regions most affected by these frosts and drought are valencia, murcia, andalusia - where 50 000 hectares of olive groves could disappear, with a major environmental catastrophe in the offing and a process of desertification that may soon appear - aragon, castilla-la mancha, catalonia, extremadura, the balearic islands - as i was saying - la rioja and its vineyards and galicia.
i would like to take advantage of the presence of the commissioner to urge the commission to be flexible, because, in short, the situation in spain is the result of a climate catastrophe, a circumstance for which this solidarity fund was created from the outset.
finally, we ask the commission to set up a european drought observatory because we believe that this drought is not unique or temporary, but that, precisely because of the impact of the climate change that is taking place, it is going to become a structural phenomenon.
we therefore ask the commission to coordinate all preventive and curative actions and all possible measures, from the environment to agriculture, so that this european drought observatory can prevent future problems.
mr schlyter's observation about the adaptation needed in the various countries to respond to climate change is absolutely correct: the european union has a duty to help the poorest countries in the world to adapt to the new climate, and to help the poorest countries in the world to adapt to the new climate.
it should be noted that the mediterranean will face an even bigger problem from climate change, as the temperature increase over the last 100 years was 0.6°c worldwide, but in the mediterranean in particular there was an increase of about 0.9°c.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
finally, the report introduces other issues such as the environment, sustainable development and the social economy, and promotes the work of cooperatives and voluntary work, the role of regional and local authorities and, most importantly, the search for new sources of employment.
i would therefore like to thank the members who have tabled amendments, not only for their interest but also for their willingness to support the agreement, because thanks to their work the guidelines we are finally going to adopt today will enable the european employment strategy to contribute more effectively to the achievement of the objectives set in lisbon, which, in terms of employment, are nothing other than the achievement of full employment of a higher quality by 2010.
mr president, i hope i shall not waste too much time on the measures contained in the two reports under consideration.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing certain guidelines for transeuropean energy networks and repealing decisions no 96/391/ec and no 1229/2003/ec (com (2003) 0742 c5-0064/2004 2003/0297 (cod)) (a6-0134/2005).
the importance of this proposal lies in the fact that the development of interconnections is a necessary condition for the creation of a genuine internal market in the field of energy.
we also support the rapporteur's amendment amending the text on the european coordinator, maintaining the text approved by the committee on industry, research and energy, so that the coordinator is appointed for those projects which present difficulties and that parliament is consulted when appointing the coordinator, something which has already been approved in the case of the transeuropean transport networks.
i would like to stress one very important amendment, which was tabled and approved by the committee on industry, research and energy.
finally, i can only applaud the commission proposal for a regulation on the financing of transeuropean transport and energy networks which is currently under discussion.
this proposal provides for the first time for the co-financing of projects in the energy field and not just for preliminary studies.
in my view, this commitment demonstrates the importance that all of us who have participated in the discussion agree on the issue of energy efficiency, as well as a substantial coincidence in the objectives of this piece of legislation.
the security of supply and the achievement of the objectives we have set ourselves in relation to climate change, not to mention those deriving from the lisbon agenda, require us to adopt a multidimensional approach to energy policy.
it is fair to acknowledge that some countries have made considerable efforts in the past, which have resulted in undeniable improvements in energy efficiency, achievements which must be recognised when deciding on the objectives to be met.
madam president, i am pleased to reiterate my group's satisfaction at this further step towards the goal, which we all want, of combining security of supply, environmental protection and the competitiveness of the union's economy in the global market.
i have no doubt, therefore, of the usefulness of this new tool, which is essential for the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of environmental policies at all levels and of policies or activities which may have a direct or indirect impact on the environment.
in this context, i would like to point out that the implementation of this directive, according to the european commission's own estimates, will cost about eur 5 million per member state, representing 1% of total spending on spatial information, while, with its implementation, an environmental benefit of more than eur 30 million per member state is expected, although it might be necessary for the directive to clearly set out the conditions of legibility within the framework of the existing community financial instruments for the costs involved in the planned actions.
finally, i would like to thank the understanding shown by both the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the council so that soil erosion can be analysed through this proposal, since we must not forget the importance of the progressive loss of soil throughout the european union at the moment, and at the same time express my concern about the specific role that the european environment agency should play in obtaining the necessary infrastructure for the correct implementation of the objectives we are pursuing, as i still have some doubts in this field.
mr president, the commission's proposal sets out, as has already been said, three major priorities: increasing the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sectors, improving the environment and land management, and improving the quality of life and promoting agricultural diversification.
i would like to refer to a matter of vital importance: the recovery of the criterion of depopulation within less-favoured areas which, whatever new definition the commission gives to these areas in the future, must prevail, because the abandonment of the rural environment by its population is an undeniable sign of its backwardness.
it is true that we must always fight with the same principles of freedom, respect for human rights, and what europe means, but in each case we must be able to find a specific, concrete political project, and we must always be able to define, determine and limit the organization that is being fought; among other things, as i said before, because it is the only way to stimulate the security forces and bodies so that, when they fight an organization, they have and put all the energy possible against it.
i would like to begin by thanking the presidency for its energy and for the determination it has shown and brought to this matter.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the next item is the report by mr dominique vlasto, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'strengthening european competitiveness: the impact of industrial change on policy and the role of smes' (a6-0148/2005)
on behalf of the pse group.
but if we want citizens to see the union's policies as a means to progress and not as a threat, we must maintain a balance between the three pillars of this strategy, namely economic, social and environmental.
the next item is the report (a4-0104/2005) by mr adamou, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the restriction of the marketing and use of certain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in diluent oils and tyres (twenty-seventh amendment to council directive 76/769/eec) (com (2004) 0098 - c5-0081/2004 - 2004/0036cod) (c4-0104/2005)
vice-president of the commission.
parliament's opinion, which i hope will be adopted today, is a good starting point for the work to be carried out in the council and i hope that the european institutions will be able to deliver the new regulation shortly, in the interests of our fishermen and of fisheries and the marine environment of the mediterranean.
in order to guide mediterranean fisheries towards sustainable exploitation of the mediterranean marine ecosystem, the european union, which is the biggest fishing power in the region, needs to set a good and credible example.
their proactive cooperation has indeed provided us with a substantial input that will help ensure sustainability for fisheries in the mediterranean.
i have only mentioned some of the features that make the mediterranean a different sea, but the objectives of the cfp are the same in the mediterranean as in other community waters: we must ensure that the exploitation of living aquatic resources creates sustainable environmental, economic and social conditions.
for this reason, if the european union is to continue to have a certain credibility as a guarantor of human rights in the world, it must investigate the actions of energy companies of european origin in bolivia and elsewhere, and it must be much more demanding in respect of compliance with social responsibility standards by companies investing abroad.
the luxembourg presidency has had the courage to tackle the problem and to devote a great deal of time, energy and good sense to it, knowing that it is a compromise which leaves no one completely satisfied, but which will certainly bring to an end, i hope, a long-standing situation which, as the minister has said, was hardly acceptable.
first, security research must play an active role in creating a social and business environment that fosters positive economic developments and enables prosperity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
i would recommend to those affected by the lloyd's case that they go to the british courts and pursue the appropriate actions in accordance with british law, but i think it is pointless for us to bring this procedure up here at this time; it is a huge waste of time for this parliament and, if you will, even a deception for the people affected, because they are being led down a path that will lead nowhere.
i apologise for not spending more of my speech on the issues of the environment and climate change.
yesterday the commission took very important and courageous decisions: the green paper on energy efficiency; a new sugar market reform – which shows, by the way, that the common agricultural policy can also be reformed.
it is therefore necessary not only to reflect, but to make a great commitment: sustainable growth and employment are the main concerns of europeans.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
support for environmental technologies is a policy that creates benefits for all sides, as it strengthens the competitiveness of the european economy and promotes sustainable development.
for this reason, environmental technologies and eco-innovation are now recognised as key components of the enhanced lisbon strategy.
the specific actions planned by the action programme cover the supply and demand of environmental technologies.
the demand, as mrs myller has pointed out earlier, for environmental technologies must be stimulated by setting targets for the performance of key products, services and methods.
the environmental life cycle concept will be the basis for addressing one of the concerns expressed in mrs myller's report.
the commission will be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and to assess the impact of the measures on the environment.
it should be noted that several of the actions are specifically addressed to smes, although they are not mentioned, such as the action to improve the testing and verification of the performance of environmental technologies, also the support to smes, in particular for the development of eco-innovation and the promotion of products on the market.
in this connection, i would like to mention the contribution of the european environment agency, which has developed a new web portal on environmental technologies that is linked to a number of databases useful to developers of technological applications and to ordinary users.
action by member states is equally important in the area of public procurement, as green and environmentally friendly procurement is an effective way of creating and expanding markets for environmental technologies.
e promotion of environmental technologies worldwide through international trade and development cooperation complements the coherent set of measures provided for in the environmental technologies action programme.
however, i would have liked to have been a little more specific because, so far, the environment is being identified only with two or three aspects of what we could call sustainable development - i am referring to climate change or the consideration that environmental technologies are those which involve an improvement in industrial processes to avoid emissions.
however, i believe that there are other branches, numerous and very important, of environmental technologies which are not systematically integrated and do not have the same space in the european union's research projects: an example is the conservation of existing resources and the fight against disasters.
i mean that if europe is consistent with itself and its projects, we must think about developing a line within environmental and sustainable development technologies dedicated precisely to water and the management of the scarcer resources.
it is not that: we must give the world that lives in poverty the tools for water conservation and environmental conservation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
europe also needs physical cohesion, transport and communications infrastructure which, while respecting the environment and the landscape, brings europeans closer together.
the inclusion of actions in the fields of sustainable development, transport and the environment gives the fund coherence in the path of european cohesion policy.
secondly, i also ask those who are critical of the structural fisheries policy to avoid the cliché that a fishing vessel or an aquaculture plant is synonymous with environmental catastrophe and instead give us their support.
i can assure you that with the budget that the european fisheries fund reserves for us - £4.9 billion for six years and 27 countries, which is only an increase of £1.5 billion on the current fund for 15 countries - we can do little damage to the environment and to the community budget.
i'm telling you directly, in this very intimate environment that we're in right now, at this time of night.
it is a three-pronged approach, which should be seen as a package: firstly, simplification and appropriate relaxation of the substance of the rules; secondly, improved procedures for their implementation and enforcement; thirdly, a secure environment for legitimate trade, in particular through a targeted monitoring of the functioning of the arrangements.
the first is an inclusive and broad-based constitution and the second is an environment in which reconstruction can bring visible improvements to the daily lives of the iraqi people.
the problem of zimbabwe is not one of intrinsic lack of resources or of climate but one of very bad governance.
only a few years ago, armed conflicts were ablaze across africa, but today sustainable peace is taking root in countries such as burundi, liberia, sierra leone and angola.
those values are the bedrock of the transatlantic relationship, the world’s greatest alliances of liberal democracies, essential in tackling the global challenges of the future from terrorism and proliferation to poverty and climate change.
increased efforts are needed to improve and ensure the sustainability of infrastructure networks and to accelerate growth and promote trade.
through this partnership we will support the development of trans-african networks which are essential for interconnectivity and the flow of knowledge on the continent, trans-european telecommunications networks, railways, airlines, infrastructure for de-icing, which are also very important: ports, airports, waterways, everything related to energy and water.
for the first time, these agreements are based on and for the regional integration of our partners and for the first time our financial and technical cooperation can be used for reforms, budget support, actions to improve the capacity to increase supply, the construction of an attractive environment for investment and trade.
that is why it is so important that the european union ensures that its policy towards china contributes to improving social, environmental and human rights standards and that it does not jeopardise regional stability and security.
the unanimity we have achieved in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has been extraordinary: everyone has put forward their views and, although there are apparently not many amendments, a new spirit has been introduced, the life programme has been enriched, in collaboration with the commission.
this project is of great pedagogical importance for teaching environmental governance and management.
and in this way, companies and many others who have to take initiatives on the territory will also be able to contribute financially to compensate, under the 'polluter pays' principle, for their passage through these protected territories with active, positive policies for the conservation of the natural environment, financed by private entities and institutions.
the co-decision procedure is our strength and it is inspired by the need to achieve the environmental objectives which the european union has always claimed as a priority.
since then we have seen a hopeful process with legislation and programmes that made our environmental priorities a reality.
i encourage you to continue to invest in environmental protection.
we all agree that the european union's trade policy must guarantee the sector the best possible environment and conditions to enable it to compete on equal terms.
the changes in the regulatory and business environment should encourage us to look aggressively to the future, to find new business opportunities and to create markets rather than simply seeking to protect ourselves from competition in the internal market.
in other words, we want a level playing field for all, transparency in market access and respect for social and environmental rights for all.
the visit helped to create a more favourable climate for the necessary establishment of the convention.
the impact of these environmental damage caused by excess water, in some cases by lack of water, in others, will be very difficult to erase and should remind us that the violence of these phenomena is the result of imbalances to which the european union has attached particular importance and will have to continue to do so.
mr president, as the environment commissioner has pointed out, this summer we in the european union have been victims of catastrophes caused by fire and water, and while some regions are seriously threatened by progressive desertification, others are nevertheless afraid of flooding.
the fires in several southern european member states have caused the loss of dozens of lives, the evacuation of entire populations and extraordinary ecological damage.
in our resolution, the socialists state that these disasters are not isolated events, but are repeated year after year, revealing structural causes, including climate change, but also others linked, for example, to agriculture and land use.
madam president, in the last few months, with the forthcoming seventh framework programme and other important initiatives, we in the committee on industry, research and energy have had intense discussions which have clarified our needs and objectives in relation to science, technology and innovation.
we cannot let all this baggage go to waste when we work on our budget for 2006, which must be guided by the political line and the priorities we have been setting out, without contradicting them in any way.
in the same vein, the substantial reduction in appropriations for research into sustainable energy systems and sustainable surface transport contradicts what we have heard and repeatedly defended in our commission, and we in the socialist group do not share the drastic reduction in appropriations for the fight against serious diseases.
the committee has acknowledged that, in the current environment, the unanimity rule for decision-making applies; the commission should opt for a pragmatic approach.
and that will obviously mean not only a failure for the european union but also a waste for the european nations, who will not know how to use the union's courage to combat a phenomenon such as terrorism.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work, his generosity and his willingness to integrate all opinions, and on his enthusiasm for tackling a subject such as european tourism, which, being one of the most dynamic and expanding economic sectors in the union, always appears as the poor sister of european policies, always begging for a solid legal basis on which to strengthen and give a european identity to this sector which, if today it appears vibrant, growing in the shadow of globalisation, brings its own erosion in that same growth and expansion, if it is not carefully framed in conditions of sustainability and guarantees of safety, quality and diversity, as well as in a high necessary professionalism and stability of workers and professionals.
in this context, we have proposed the creation of a tourist destination brand 'european union', which is characterised precisely by the enormous diversity, high social quality and sustainability of its tourist offer.
we also believe that it is necessary to support the growing sector of medical tourism or thermal tourism, with important needs and benefits, but which must be sufficiently foreseen and framed; to strengthen the personal security of tourists, both european tourists abroad against risks such as prison or kidnapping problems, and risk tourists inside, through a compulsory assistance insurance, which would be necessary; to promote itinerant caravan and motorhome tourism as a good example of more sustainable, less crowded tourism; and to develop actions to make tourist establishments and services accessible to people with reduced mobility, but with sufficient publicity, because this is often not the case.
this increase in tourism has raised problems of sustainability, of ecological balance - which have been highlighted here - of physical security, of food security, of legal certainty in the case of delays, of breach of contracts, of time-sharing and of competitiveness; and here i would like to stress again the importance of the issue of value added tax in the special scheme for travel agencies and the reduced rate, to which my colleague mr sudre has referred.
the fact that tourism can be extended beyond the high season means that these areas will have more and better jobs, and that the offer will be more diversified, as it will allow not only sun and beach tourism but also cultural and environmental tourism to be welcomed.
mr verheugen, it is very important that, in the spirit of this report, of sustainable tourism, respectful of the land and the environment, the commission should promote measures which will oblige the governments of tourist areas such as mine not to deviate in their actions from the direction set out in this report.
mr president, i shall waste a few seconds complaining again that these debates are always held at night.
this is one of the myriad of reasons why a stateless nation's citizens continually advocate the whole idea of europe; we regard europe as our national environment.
the northern dimension environmental partnership is proving useful in addressing very specific and urgent needs, thanks to the practical support of a wide range of donors.
we cannot forget the far north with its specific characteristics: it is not very populated, but it has a very important indigenous culture and its own environmental problems, such as the former russian nuclear bases on the kola peninsula.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
they are in tune with what people in europe want when we ask them through the euro-barometer polls – more and better jobs; preserving social and territorial cohesion; managing the earth's resources in a sustainable way; and reinforcing security in europe and the world as a whole.
i believe that these new elements introduced in dialogue with the comoros authorities and according to the principles set out in the new fisheries partnership agreements will ensure that the comoros agreement contributes to responsible and sustainable fisheries in the comoros.
we believe that the opening up and liberalization of passenger services with all the guarantees of quality, safety and qualification of drivers, as well as with adequate regulation of passenger rights, will provide the citizens of the union with the necessary mobility for the progress and sustainable development we are pursuing as a future objective.
mr president, mr energy commissioner, thank you for your very timely presence.
if i may, i will not waste time, which i have no other way, in common places.
we will agree to take measures to make more efficient use of the various modes of transport and, finally, we will agree to take measures to improve the energy efficiency of vehicles.
i agree with the commission that a medium- and long-term action plan is needed to enable the fleet to cope with a situation which is obviously structural and not cyclical, but i must also say clearly that i do not deny that some of the solutions proposed by the directorate-general for fisheries, for example the scrapping of the community fleet, to save energy, cause a great deal of anxiety for many of us.
we therefore reiterate to the commission, represented here by the energy commissioner, the request we made here a year ago to enable the fisheries sector to emerge from this crisis, namely to launch a mechanism which can be triggered automatically when there are sudden or continuing increases in fuel prices, and which should be activated before the fisheries companies start going bankrupt en masse.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i would first of all like to congratulate the energy commissioner on his swift reaction to the extreme and recent volatility of oil prices through this plan, the main lines of which he has set out to us today and with whose conceptual basis and concrete measures i fully agree.
we must adopt the measures that the commissioner indicated in the plan: a strong push towards the use of renewable energy and improved efficiency, an increase in refining capacity, the fight against speculative movements, consideration of nuclear energy as an indispensable option in the security and supply strategy and the promotion of the use of biofuels.
mr president, the energy system is vital and has a global dimension.
we must bring more rationality and efficiency into the global system, avoiding the waste of energy for which we all pay - the united states spends 50% more energy per dollar of its gdp than the european union.
we must reduce the disparity in environmental regulations, as has been demonstrated within the united states by recent hurricanes, by encouraging less rigid stock management by companies and by encouraging new investment.
we must move towards a new energy model through transport innovation, the development of technologies for decarbonisation and diversification and the development of renewable resources, as well as through stable and lasting international cooperation.
all concluded that until we took urgent action to address poverty, disease, environmental degradation and social injustice, we would not be able to prevent or resolve conflict.
it broadened the consensus around the commitments established back in july at the gleneagles summit to 191 countries, in particular the need to accelerate progress towards the millennium goals in africa and to make international progress once again on climate change.
it also agreed, as set out clearly in the outcome document, that development must be sustainable and take account of its impact on the global environment.
we particularly welcome the mandate given to the secretary-general to consider longer-term reform of the un's development, humanitarian assistance and environment organisations so that their work is better managed and better coordinated.
to be effective the united nations must have the resources that it needs, but it cannot afford to waste funds on inefficiency and duplication of effort.
there are two further questions, one of which is the environment.
environmental sustainability is instrumental in our fight against poverty, for stabilisation and for greater security.
especially now, with the tsunami, katrina and rita, and floods in the european union, a real united nations environmental organisation would have been the right response by the international community.
in particular, the lack of commitments to improve and strengthen global governance on ecological, social and economic issues is of concern, but also the withdrawal of the conclusions of the chapter on disarmament and non-proliferation.
i am starting from the fact that it and the union share the view that trade, investment and free competition are key factors in development, but also that, for development to be harmonious and equitable, fundamental social requirements that strengthen economic and social cohesion, the environment and consumer rights must be taken into account.
the choice is not between free trade and protectionism, but between growing trade, but fair, transparent and with social and environmental minimum standards.
but thirdly, that such opening must be done within a framework of respect for minimum and common standards, which guarantee a fair and fair game in trade relations, and that the benefits of such opening and exchange benefit the weakest parts of the production system, that is, workers, while also ensuring respect for international environmental standards.
this means setting new rules for business between countries, including quotas based not on price but on production conditions, establishing traceability rules to ensure compliance and, above all, regulating the practice of large, increasingly mobile multinational companies, which often follow the logic of the race to the bottom, seeking to produce in places that pose fewer social, labour and environmental demands.
mr president, the point is to add the following: encourages the commission, the member states and india to increase cooperation in the field of renewable energy.
the forthcoming eu troika visit to nepal, planned from 4 to 6 october, will assess the developments since the last visit in december 2004 and aim to offer public support for the moderate voices in the democratic middle ground working towards the eu's goal of a sustainable peace based on the principles of civilian, accountable and democratic government.
the fact that the perpetrators of violent acts and harassment are neither identified nor brought to justice creates a climate of impunity, which unfortunately can foster further incidents and increase the feeling of frustration and insecurity among the minorities.
mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, its committee on the environment and in particular the rapporteur, mr blokland, for the work they have done on this report at second reading.
one of the main objectives of the proposed new regulation on shipments of waste is to ensure that the european union is aligned with the international requirements for shipments of waste, both at oecd and un level, i.e.
the new regulation therefore also seeks to contribute to greater clarity and better legislation on shipments of waste.
we need this new regulation to improve the clarity and application of the rules governing shipments of waste and to comply with the european union's international commitments.
the commission did not, however, accept the common position on three specific issues, which it explained in a statement, by means of a communication to the european parliament, on 1 july 2005. these are the legal basis of the regulation, the objections of the member states to the shipment of waste destined for recovery and a provision to exclude animal by-products from the scope of the regulation.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has voted in favour of 90 amendments to the common position.
today, waste for recovery is freely moved between member states, provided that strict environmental protection rules and the principle of proportionality are respected.
a thriving european recycling market helps to reduce the environmental impact of the use of natural resources.
the free movement of waste for recovery is already established by the existing regulation on shipments of waste, the provisions of the treaty of the european communities on the free movement of goods, and the case law of the european court of justice.
it provides for maximum time limits for objections to shipments of waste for recovery under national standards.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the directive on the recycling of waste.
we preferred the commission's proposal, which did not remove the legal basis for international trade policy, article 133. whether we like it or not, waste is a commodity and must be treated as such.
moreover, more than 50% of the text refers to the transport of waste outside the european union.
this does not prevent us from also taking the environment into account, since it is a very important issue.
i think that the administrations should be given a reasonable time to respond to requests for waste shipments and, if they do not, what is called 'administrative silence' or 'tacit consent' should be applied.
finally, i would ask the european commission that, as part of better legislation, it is important that in a future amendment to the waste framework directive it revises all the definitions, such as recovery.
environmental protection is part of the collective imagination and has been embodied in important public policies that were recently analysed by the oecd.
copper is a non-renewable resource, which generates a lot of revenue for chile.
who do i turn to when in south-southern chile the ozone layer is decreasing and the sun's rays are stronger as a result of gas emissions in the northern hemisphere?
we are actively cooperating in the modernisation of our public institutions; we want to deepen our collaboration on environmental issues; we aim to exchange experiences and good practices to further strengthen social cohesion in chile.
it is one part of the inquiry into the energy sector.
the question is quite clear: what can be done to stimulate and increase investment in alternative sources of energy or for other purposes?
indeed, oil and energy companies should be strongly encouraged to develop new energy sources with a view to dealing with the future scarcity of oil.
the commission has continued to make efforts through its contacts with the industry to increase the awareness of oil companies of the appropriateness of reinvesting part of their profits in activities that allow for more sustainable economic growth, such as the development of alternative energies and energy efficiency.
i am trying to be objective and to do what is necessary to protect the health of citizens in the european union and of course in greece, as well as to protect ecosystems and the environment.
we are therefore dealing objectively and with an effort to improve conditions for health and the environment and the issues of going to court and, i repeat, i always try not to go to court but to find other ways of dealing with the issues.
the way in which waste is disposed of is not the same in northern and southern europe, or in one country in relation to another or even in areas within the same country.
there are reasons why in one country incineration and recycling are preferred, in another country composting is preferred to improve the soil and, of course, our main objective is always to try to prevent the creation of waste.
the european union has financed the first project, the tertiary treatment of waste, and now the drying plant.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
madam president, commissioner, does the commission know whether all the member states have transposed existing community legislation on the environment and waste treatment, whether they have incorporated it into their legislation and whether they apply it correctly?
it is very difficult to make a blanket statement; obviously we have a ban on driftnets with a very large span because of the negative effect they can have on the sustainability of fish and their impact on bycatch cetaceans.
if, on the basis of scientific study, it can be concluded that driftnets do not create undue pressures on the sustainability of salmon or any other fish stocks and there is no risk of by-catches of cetaceans, then we take a more open approach.
if we see that there are undue pressures on sustainability then we will take the necessary remedial action.
there could be other types of net that are not classified as driftnets but that, in particular circumstances, could have an even more negative impact on the sustainability of fisheries.
therefore the task of the commission is to restore sustainable fisheries where they do not exist and where we are fishing sustainably – which is the exception, not the rule – to maintain sustainability.
this summer it was found that of the 37 vessels found with driftnets prohibited by environmental organizations, 18 had already received subsidies for their conversion.
we now come to the debate on the report by mr mario mauro, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks and amending council regulation (ec) no 2236/95 (com (2004) 0475 - c6-0086/2004 - 2004/0154 (cod)) (a6-0283/2005).
i would like to thank mr mauro once again, as well as the members of the committee on budgets, the committee on transport and the committee on industry, research and energy for their support of the commission's proposal.
as i said at the beginning of the debate, the proposal sets an overall budget of eur 20.690 billion in commitment appropriations for the period 2007-13, including eur 20.350 billion for the transport component and eur 340 million for the energy component.
i note, however, that in line with the work of the temporary committee on the new financial perspectives and the resolution adopted by your parliament, it is proposed to reduce the proposed budget for the ten-energy (see amendment no 34).
if parliament were to confirm this possibility, the tens-energy could hardly have an impact on the development of energy networks at a time when the global energy context is pushing us to strengthen gas and electricity infrastructures, which directly contribute to our energy security.
the definition of the multiannual indicative programme is an implementing measure, since the european parliament and the council have already defined the priorities in the guidelines for the trans-european transport and energy networks.
as regards environmental considerations, i confirm the commission's commitment to fully respect existing requirements, while avoiding the introduction of the entire list of provisions in the legislative texts into the regulation.
it is clear that the transeuropean networks must be a model for the environment.
i was astonished, mr president, when i said that mr henin - he has now left, fortunately - was completely wrong, because the meeting to which i was invited gave me the opportunity to explain that the all-terrain vehicle has major drawbacks for the environment and for future mobility in europe.
the commission can accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11, 15, 17, 23, 27, 28 and 31. the commission can accept in principle the following amendments: 7, 25, 36, 38 and 45. the commission can accept in part the following amendments: 13, 35, 37, 41 and 46. the commission cannot accept the following amendments: 4, 6, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 39, 40, 42, 43, 44, 47 and 48.
we now come to the last item on the agenda for today, namely the debate on the report by mrs mojca drčar murko, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 95/2/ec on food additives other than colours and sweeteners and directive 94/35/ec on sweeteners used in foodstuffs (com (2004) 0650 - c6-0139/2004 - 2004/0237 (cod)) (a6-0191/2005).
in relation to what the prime minister, mr blair, has said, research and development and innovation are in the pipeline, but the biggest cuts have been made in these areas; energy policy, we can make progress, it is not community policy; universities, it is not; erasmus, yes, we can also increase it; and immigration, which is very important: we must boost the european border agency, readmission agreements and attention to africa.
mr president, mr minister, the british government has been in favour of lowering the cap and reducing agricultural subsidies, so i ask you whether the council's presidency-in-office believes that young people living in rural and mountainous regions will be better integrated into their natural environment and will have more opportunities for life with this proposal to abandon the common agricultural policy.
nevertheless, it also noted a number of concerns, for instance with the whole campaign environment, the choice of voting system and the complaints mechanism.
however, the situation is still fragile and the improvements are not yet fully sustainable.
it should focus particularly on afghan ownership and sustainability.
lasting stabilisation will not be possible unless the afghan side is willing and able to take greater responsibility for the transition process and for making it sustainable.
there are many other issues which have been raised in this debate: the problem of managing migratory flows, discrimination against women, the serious environmental problems of the mare nostrum, the dialogue between the three monotheistic religions, the need for local and regional cooperation, the fight against terrorism, the control of weapons of mass destruction, the participation of the peoples, etc.
the first is that we should have a debate on the situation in iraq, in the presence of lord bach, and then a joint debate on climate change.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by guido sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals and chemical preparations (reach), establishing the european chemicals agency and amending directive 1999/45/ec and regulation (ec) no .../... [on persistent organic pollutants] (com (2003) 0644 - c5-0530/2003 - 2003/0256 (cod)) (a6-0020/2005) and - the report by guido sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 67/548/eec adapting to council regulation (ec) no .../... on the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals and chemical preparations (com (2003) 0644 - c5-0530/2003 - 2003/0256 (cod)) (com (2003) 06285 - c0535/05) and com (2003) 06255 (cod))
you have expressed your concern, but the presidency cannot take it as a point of order.
from the moment we got down to business, until today, all the members involved have devoted an impressive number of hours to achieving a result which, with the greatest possible consensus within this house and with other institutions, adequately protects consumer health and improves the quality of the environment, all without harming the competitiveness of our industry.
taxes on aviation fuel are covered by community legislation in the form of the energy tax directive, 2003/96/ec.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is an opportunity to change our habits and customs, it is an opportunity to reduce emissions and achieve cleaner air, it is an opportunity for the development of renewable and alternative energies and, also, it is an opportunity for europe to consider its dependence on fossil fuels, often in territories with great political instability and subject to strong price changes.
i therefore believe that it also opens the door to the possibility of reviewing and considering nuclear energy as one of the many solutions, along with other alternatives.
we still have a long way to go in research and understanding of the causes of climate change.
for example, very little research has been done on the relationship between agriculture and climate change.
i also believe that we need to look at strategies to compensate for climate change and to determine how much we can mitigate it.
i believe that the policy on drought and desertification in the mediterranean must be reviewed and that the suffering and deterioration caused to the ecological system and even to our animal resources and wildlife must be addressed.
the fourth concern was energy.
how do we handle soaring global energy demand while supply remains tight?
we have to diversify our sources of energy and approach our current major energy suppliers in a more coherent manner.
we also have to pursue energy efficiency and clean technologies and develop within europe a much more genuinely open energy market.
failure to sign off the european union’s accounts for the eleventh successive year – which is very poor – affects the climate of debate and of opinion about the whole of the european union in every single member state.
businesses, non-governmental organisations and member states want new european rules, for example, to fight unfair competition, to protect the environment or to improve our legal systems.
i can only congratulate prime minister blair on the way he has helped to create a positive atmosphere, a climate of trust.
thirdly, the deepening of practical work on the policy responses to be given to globalisation, to the ageing of our populations, covering specific areas such as research and development, universities, energy and demography, including the problem of immigration.
setting up a coherent energy policy: next year we will present a strategy for europe.
it is europe that can provide answers to the challenges of more expensive and scarcer energy.
but all these policies from external relations, to security, to migration, to energy, to research, to universities need money; they cost money.
as i said earlier, i have taken note of the position of the committee on the environment on the rejection of the commission's proposal and i have listened to all the different views expressed here tonight, views which may have in many cases started from different starting points but almost always ended up in the same conclusion.
i would stress that this report is a step forward and i hope we do not waste any more time on this subject, because there is no time to waste.
i believe that the european parliament must also use all its energy and political influence to deal with this problem.
(parliament adopted the proposal)
mr president, i am speaking under rule 134. the agenda does not include a resolution closing the debate on the oral question on criminal sanctions in the field of the environment.
this round, which is a priority objective of the community's trade policy, is the best way to ensure that trade expansion is carried out in a balanced way, producing growth but at the same time sustainable development in the multilateral context.
we cannot even apply the treaty in relation to human rights, nor can we apply the directives on public procurement, the water framework directive, the strategic environmental assessment directive, without facing what the president of the higher council of architectural colleges has just this morning called an urban horror: he has said that the mediterranean coast is clogged, that the territory is suffering from a major overcrowding and an irreversible impact that will leave an ecological footprint that is too hard.
a sustainable environment is not compatible with this model.
i believe that the environmental interests of the citizens are more important than the interests of the brick and cement industry, which wants to cover the entire mediterranean coast.
other spanish regions have laws similar to the lrau; even the head of the autonomous secretariat for territory and environment came here to say that the law was very good.
having said this, i believe that it is necessary to introduce a requirement for a common european vision regarding territorial planning and environment protection.
a consensus is necessary in the eu in order to avoid policies that threaten rational european planning and the environment.
not putting an end to this will mean that certain business groups will become richer, bringing about massive social, environmental and economic troubles in the near future.
for me, it is an umbrella directive for all that is being done and should be done on energy efficiency.
while the targets are now indicative, member states must still commit to adopting and aiming to achieve national energy savings targets, and to taking cost-effective measures designed to achieve these targets.
member states will also have to plan their measures and report their results in national energy efficiency action plans.
member states must publish mandatory public procurement guidelines for energy efficiency improvement.
article 13 on metering and informative billing of energy consumption has also been improved compared to the common position.
to conclude, i have on earlier occasions said that energy efficiency is one of the main priorities of this commission.
mr president, the european union is at a time when immediate action to improve energy efficiency is a necessity.
the aim of this directive is to encourage the development of a market in energy services which, although it already exists, is not sufficiently known to final consumers.
we put options on the table that do not require additional investment, such as energy saving contracts, the amount of which is paid with the equivalent of the energy bill saved after the changes.
as regards the public sector, the role of member states in including energy efficiency criteria in public procurement should be emphasised.
during the first nine years, they will have to draw up three energy efficiency action plans, detailing the measures taken and future objectives.
it will be a long one and i suppose it will start next year in the two committees concerned, the committee on culture and education and the committee on industry, research and energy.
the civitas programme is an innovative initiative that integrates transport, energy and environmental elements.
the life and steer programmes are two other examples of financial support for several projects that are being implemented by cities for sustainable urban transport.
sustainable urban transport will be one of the priority themes of the research axis under the seventh framework programme for research and development.
an integrated approach to the management of our cities, including urban transport, will be fostered by the next thematic strategy on the urban environment.
the strategy, to be published in january 2006, will recommend that member states and local and regional authorities draw up sustainable urban transport plans.
the commuter rail network is vital for sustainable urban transport in most european cities.
i believe that rail is a more sustainable and less polluting means of transport than lorries, and that it needs to be positively discriminated against until it can stand on its own.
more sections of goods-only roads need to be built and if we do this, we will achieve clear economic and environmental benefits in the medium term.
aid for research, for development, for training and for environmental protection is also available for large companies wherever they are located, subject to a number of conditions.
we agreed to relaunch our work in a number of areas, including research, universities, demography, energy, immigration, security and external relations.
yesterday, the commission adopted the final points of the review of its sustainable development strategy.
the most important elements are: ensuring that all community policies are guided by the principles of sustainable development; a strong commitment to the objectives by providing for a regular meeting of our institutions to take stock and review member states' practices; the commission's proposal is to involve more systematically the main actors in sustainable development, not only the institutions but also the business community, which must make a significant effort, and, of course, the regional and local authorities.
it shows that the leadership of the european commission and the european union on climate change has borne fruit.
at the summit we agreed to make more concrete progress in a series of key areas: boosting research and development with the creation of a european research council; improving our universities and their links with business; creating a more competitive energy market; examining how migration can boost our economy; how we can use more extensive and better quality child care to give people a fairer balance between work and family life; how we can re-skill workers to meet the global challenge, and how we can strengthen europe’s place in the world and our collective security.
(applause)so, with all due respect, frankness and friendship, i say to the presidency of the council that we have to avoid this disconnection between the policy objectives on energy, security, immigration, research and universities that are supported by the presidency – and were so well expressed at hampton court – and the resistance to providing the means to achieve them.
to this end, it should seek to maintain a prudent fiscal policy, improve the business environment and pursue accelerated labour market reforms.
a number of grave shortcomings that need to be swiftly and decisively addressed also relate to the area of agriculture and food safety and to the protection of the environment.
mr president, it is true that the accessions of romania and bulgaria should not be victims of the new climate of crisis and fatigue among the citizens which has become apparent with the failures related to the constitutional treaty.
but we must be realistic; that climate exists and it is difficult not to be affected by the members of this parliament, who are close to the citizens and will be watching carefully the state of readiness of the two countries.
i am pleased to announce that the european fisheries fund’s new priority – the sustainable development of fisheries areas – will make an important contribution to these needs.
the new priority ‘sustainable development of fisheries areas’ will be implemented through a bottom-up approach.
women’s organisations should therefore give their input for the analysis of the trends in the fisheries sector and the development of a strategy for its sustainable development.
funding is needed because these networks fulfil and can fulfil more and better in the future functions of public interest from an economic, social and even ecological point of view, and therefore deserve to be given funding instruments.
as regards the collection of data for natura 2000, as provided for in amendment no 9, i believe that it should be financed by the funds earmarked for environmental policy - and i have always said this - and not by the cfp.
in this manner, both parties are firmly committed to responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in the seychelles waters.
on amendment 6, the new protocol does not contain any targeted measures but a support to the seychelles fisheries policy – article 7 of the protocol –promoting responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in seychelles waters.