of course, the tsunami and climate change have no common cause.
unless we measure time in millions of years and talk about continental drift, which results in one thing earthquakes and another thing climate change.
the year 2004 brought with it a host of new evidence of accelerating global warming.
last september, prime minister tony blair dedicated a speech to climate change, announcing that by 2100, the ocean will rise 88 centimeters, which, as things stand, puts 100 million people at risk.
it is paradoxically sad that in a house with a magnificent view of the tallinn bay, several estonian governments are sitting in succession, who do not notice this important indicator of climate change or do not know how to draw any energy policy conclusions from it.
the management of the state energy company, which is itself guided by the vision of the us oil and coal monopolies, is ignoring the policies of the heyday of industrialism, as recently as 50 years ago.
at the same time, estonia is following in the footsteps of other eu countries in the deployment of renewable energy, despite the high potential of both biofuels and wind energy.
i would like to say that, in recognition of the achievements of the cop10 in buenos aires and the european union's leading role in combating global climate change, it is time to strengthen the approach to energy policy change in the lagging member states, with the european commission and parliament acting together, also using the structural funds for action.
a decisive effort is needed to boost competitiveness not only through good programmes but also in real economic activities, because sustainable development and more jobs can result only from more growth.
the tenfold increase in the budget compared to the commission's proposal is a concrete step towards achieving the sustainable development goals and thus fulfils the eu's strategic objective of halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010. the budget increase makes life+ a stand-alone instrument of the european union's environmental policy.
the present decision establishing a community programme for employment and social solidarity is a positive step towards a more cohesive european social environment.
my first concern is related to the highly alarming ecological situation of the baltic sea, where environmental and toxic hazards are often up to five times higher than in the north sea area.
(applause)
i am here representing a member state which is certainly the second to last in the european union in terms of renewable energy.
the only partly unavoidable reason for this energy policy has been the fact that the world market price for fuel stones is not there.
as renewable energy is not seriously addressed in estonia, many consumers have no choice.