mr president, i was at the milan climate summit a year ago and it is worth noting that some progress has been made since then.
while in milan the u.s. delegates were quite unequivocal in their denial of man's role in climate change, now the stance had softened.
they had already been forced to admit the facts to the point of agreeing to talk about man's possible role in climate change.
but that concession is a long way from getting the united states to commit to the global front to combat global warming.
so it is economically insane for the united states not to be already running full steam ahead on climate change but to be risking the entire planet in an attempt to protect its competitiveness.
i am afraid that the current kyoto agreement is not making much progress towards the climate objectives.
the dutch minister for the environment, who was speaking during the presidency, rightly pointed out that the problem for the future was mainly the chinese emissions, whose rate of increase completely surprised the parties to the agreement.
so kyoto will not solve two mega-problems: the united states, which is currently responsible for a quarter of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, and china, whose emissions are expected to increase four times over the next 10 years.
that's a doubling of global emissions in ten years.
the most urgent action now is to take corrective action to make climate policy more effective, especially in china and india, so that irreversible mistakes are not made while waiting for the second stage.
some of the taboos surrounding kyoto should be broken and it should be acknowledged that it has failed to solve the problem of global warming.
in a globalising market economy, this is the only way to prevent international capital from shifting production to places where there are no emission limits or environmental standards.
therefore, the emission criteria for industrial production must be set at emissions per tonne of production and a careful definition of the theoretical minimum emissions for the different sectors is required.
we urgently need a whole new energy thinking, based above all on energy saving and efficiency, renewable energy sources and clean energy sources.
at the same time, it must be remembered that the top of the pyramid will collapse if it is not based on socially and environmentally sustainable development.
the importance of the online environment as a medium for the transmission of knowledge and expertise cannot grow unless the necessary, reliable, comprehensive, high-quality and secure content is available.
the group identified the elimination of poverty, the implementation of equitable globalisation and the management of climate change as the main challenges of globalisation.
global responsibility has come a long way as business leaders recognise that poverty eradication requires thinking beyond our own borders, bringing the benefits of globalisation to the poorest regions and creating global leadership to combat climate change.
however, we cannot rely only on public investment to stimulate growth: we must give incentives to stimulate private investment, which is the real source of sustainable growth in europe.
the city is the cultural environment closest to us.
the noise and pollution levels rise to inhuman levels.
the majority of central europeans suffer from persistent noise pollution.
noise and pollution have become a major cultural factor.
we now live in a global digital network environment.
in a global digital network environment.
the european union's central challenge is to safeguard the biodiversity of our common territory.
the authorities must also carry out an environmental impact assessment for all projects and plans that may affect the natural values of the areas.
as is often said, our policies towards both china and russia are strongly linked to the facts of trade and energy policy.
what does the increasing energy dependence and energy demands that are already commonplace in the eu mean for european human rights policy?
we are now 50% dependent on energy imported from outside the eu, and the commission calculates that this will rise to 70% by 2030. it has already been established that the concerns expressed by parliament and, in particular, by the member states, have in some cases been countered by the passivity and underlying commercial interests of the member states of the union.
if this is already the case, how far will we go when we become more dependent and compete more and more for russian energy resources alongside china and india?
in addition to international competition, the european steel industry is facing stricter environmental standards as a result of the union's emissions trading scheme and the entry into force of the kyoto protocol.
the steel industry is the largest consumer of energy and one of the main emitters of carbon dioxide.
the steel industry should therefore reduce its greenhouse gas emissions either by investing in new technology or by buying emission allowances.
i would like to point out that in my own country the steel industry has been investing heavily in environmental technology for many years.
co2 emissions have been reduced as much as is possible according to the present knowledge.
so those who have not cared about the environment before, sell their emission rights to the people who cleaned up.
a timely investment in the environment reduces the competitiveness of the most modern and cleanest factory.
commissioner spidla, what are you going to do to ensure that in the emissions trading scheme the cleaner do not have to reward the dirtier?
the opening up of energy markets to competition is now a key aspect of the process which will benefit consumers in many member states, at least over time.
as a result, their energy giants have been able to charge higher prices to consumers as a protection against competition and, for example, to buy out smaller competitors with this additional cover, which then find themselves in a more difficult competitive situation than those who avoid it.
the union must be determined to open up all areas of the energy sector to fair competition, including the natural gas transmission networks.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we ask the commission whether it is prepared to negotiate a voluntary agreement with oil companies operating in the european union to invest part of the unforeseen profits generated by the rise in oil prices in research and development of alternative energy sources.
this would also help us to redeem our share of the environmental targets.
we link social and environmental sustainability with competitiveness.
we social democrats are calling for social and environmental sustainability.
in the long term, competitiveness is not sustainable unless it is based on social and environmental factors.
at the same time, we have been able to maintain social and environmental sustainability, unlike the united states.
as a result, we have a more equal, safer and environmentally sustainable society.
that would be a sustainable development method too.
mr president, the forthcoming summit is doubly interesting from the point of view of sustainable development.
the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy and the annual monitoring of the sustainable development programme are on the agenda.
sustainable growth and competitiveness cannot be achieved without the highest possible level of environmental and social protection.
the mid-term review of the sustainable development programme this year will need to establish an ambitious long-term strategy, directly linked to the lisbon strategy and also guiding the different policy areas of the european union.
the spirit of cardiff must be revived and the sustainability of the various policies of the european union examined more intensively, and the factors of development leading to unsustainable trends addressed.
particular attention will be paid to energy production, transport, land use and agriculture.
new and longer-term steps must be taken to combat climate change.
looking beyond kyoto, and achieving sustainable and follow-up targets for 2020. the sustainability strategy must also be accompanied by a price tag.
the cost of environmental protection measures is now the focus of attention.
the european union must also continue to be a global leader in environmental policy.
ambitious legislation combined with economic incentives is also a good combination to create demand for new environmental technologies.
the best example of the mutual benefit of co-financing is the research on fusion energy in the so-called iter project.
the first point is that the aim of all these reports we are pushing through in the committee on budgetary control is to improve the control environment.
having worked in a national administration myself, i can honestly say that i do not think that the control environment in any national administration is as strict and as tough as that which we have in the european parliament or in the european union in general.
the fight against malaria is linked to the fight against poverty, but it must be remembered that the threat of malaria is projected to worsen with climate change.
with global warming, malaria parasites are feared to spread to southern parts of europe and the united states, for example.
that is why tackling climate change is also fighting malaria.
in the gue/ngl group we attach importance to the promotion of social and economic cohesion and environmental policy.
the draft directive on energy-using products, which is now being reviewed, is a good example of this possibility of either contributing to or undermining our objectives.
the main concern for energy-using products is the increasing shift of manufacturing focus to china and elsewhere in asia.
this negative trend for our industry and the environment may even accelerate in the future as a result of the relaxation of environmental and occupational safety standards in asia.
the same trend is clearly visible in other sectors of our industry, including climate policy, where legislative decisions are pushing industry towards looser standards, thus undermining both the eu's competitiveness and the state of our environment.
product requirements must be similar across europe to allow energy-using products to circulate freely within the internal market.
the directive under consideration is historic: it limits emissions from ships for the first time.
it is high time we restricted ship emissions.
sulfur dioxide causes acid rain and is harmful to both our health and the environment.
in my own country, finland, for example, these emissions have fallen to less than one seventh of their levels in the early 1980s.
a few years ago, the sulphur emissions from ships in the baltic sea exceeded the emissions of all of sweden.
despite the limitations of this directive, sulphur emissions from ships at sea in the eu will exceed the combined emissions from power plants, factories and cars in all eu member states within 10 to 12 years.
the sulphur emissions per tonne of cargo carried by freight ships are also many times higher than those of trucks.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances and preparations.
the commission and the council have therefore committed themselves to continuing to tighten the limits on emissions from ships, as parliament has called for.
it is common to talk about acid rain in the context of sulphur dioxide emissions, which are harmful to nature and buildings, but they are also a serious and growing health problem.
the limitation of sulphur emissions from ships must therefore be continued.
the good news, mr president, was that the spring summit decided to develop a long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
but i'm going to talk about the underlying phenomenon, climate change.
the subject is precisely the one on which the leading professors in the field of the environment in finland spoke at a seminar in parliament last week here in strasbourg.
one of the topics we discussed was climate change.
we often ask whether the drought of 2003, for example, is a sign of climate change.
now we need to have enough of this information to take ever more effective action to combat and slow down climate change.
unfortunately, climate change cannot be avoided completely, but it is now essential to minimise the damage to people and property.
as we move beyond the fsap, however, the process itself should take into account the new environment in order to ensure that the appropriate balance of legislative and horizontal measures, structures of transparency, parliamentary control and stakeholder consultation improves further.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
mr president, we have a strategic directive in our hands because it reflects the fundamental difficulty of eu environmental policy, namely the great disparity in the circumstances of the member states.
it is therefore important, both from a rational and an environmental point of view, that we focus on the objectives, but leave the means to the member states.
this would be a very unfortunate thing for the environment.
the commission has also put forward a proposal on access to justice in environmental matters.
for the ppe-de group mr president, parliament has been working with the aarhus convention since 2000, when we received the commission's version of the first pillar of the convention, the right of citizens to environmental information.
we are starting from the premise that nothing should restrict the citizen's right to information and to be heard on environmental matters.
it is essential for the functioning of democracy in a world where environmental issues are playing an increasingly central role.
we want the decisions taken at the second conference of the parties to contribute to the implementation and development of the convention and to achieve synergy between the aarhus convention and the relevant multilateral environmental agreements such as the kyoto or cartagena agreements.
the kyoto protocol on pollutant release and transfer registers will help to reduce pollution and promote sustainable development.
the aim of the århus convention is to encourage public authorities and citizens to assume their individual and collective responsibility for protecting and improving the environment, in order to ensure the well-being of present and future generations.
for the verts/ale group mr president, last autumn the finnish magazine talouselämä wrote that if there were a ceo on earth, he would have already started strong action to reduce emissions, much stronger than kyoto.
a recent article in new scientist magazine of great britain expressed surprise at the indifference of policymakers to the warnings of climate scientists.
the industrial countries must recognise their historical responsibility for the fact that climate change has actually started, and therefore the main responsibility for reducing emissions lies with us.
the northeastern states are embarking on carbon trading and want to join the european union's emissions trading scheme.
(applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety last week adopted my amendment on the wto, in which i propose that government experts examine the possibility of imposing trade sanctions at wto level on those who will be excluded from the kyoto agreement in the future, already in the kyoto ii period.
to do this, we need new game-changers and moves, and courage, in the climate debate.
i hope we will also see the weaknesses of the kyoto protocol so that we can learn from them and have much more effective weapons to combat climate change by 2012. we must admit that kyoto is now at an impasse, because the global front is missing, partly because there are no borders for the developing countries and partly because there are powerful saviours outside.
it makes kyoto inefficient and leads to distortions of competition and carbon leakage.
even if we do everything we can in the eu, it is estimated that in the coming decades the eu-25's share of emissions will fall to less than 10%, while developing countries will increase their share to over half of all emissions.
the eu's progress in reducing emissions has come to a standstill once the easiest reductions have been achieved.
therefore, i would argue very strongly that we should remove article 4 from the original commission proposal and we adopt article 11 along the lines that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has suggested.
the energy is synergistic.
in the energy sector, the ten-t networks play an important role in liberalising the union's internal market and improving operational security, by connecting the eu to suppliers outside the union.
however, energy networks should not be treated in the same way as transeuropean transport networks.
transport networks are public infrastructure, while ten energy networks are privately owned.
therefore, public funds should be used for energy networks mainly for project design and research.
in any event, for the union's energy networks, this amount is so small that it is not decisive for investment decisions.
we must, however, ensure that energy security leads not to waste but to savings.
a recent calculation shows that all energy sources, except renewable, could run out within a couple of generations, depending on the level of consumption.
however, we should be very honest in looking at the trans-european networks in the energy field.
it is clearly a necessity because the security of our energy supplies depends on our energy networks, and on interconnection as the most important part of it.
we spend eur 20 million a year on trans-european energy networks.
however, the powerbridge project between lithuania and poland will never be a reality unless there is community support for trans-european networks in energy.
concerning broader support for energy, we definitely need to diversify our supplies.
i would also like to thank the other members of the committee on industry, research and energy who have drafted amendments and worked to improve the commission proposal.
as you know, i consider energy efficiency in the union to be a priority area for community energy policy.
the proposal for a directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services can prove to be one of the most effective tools at our disposal, not only as a means of combating climate change and improving competitiveness, but for improving our security of supply, increasing employment within the eu and establishing a viable market for energy efficiency.
as you know the commission is also in the process of preparing a green paper on energy efficiency.
this paper is designed to stimulate public debate on the usefulness of improving energy efficiency in the european union and the best way to do this.
the debate on the green paper will also focus attention on the energy services proposal and on its role.
the proposal for a directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services has several important objectives and means to achieve these objectives: it sets uniform energy savings targets to be achieved in each member state through improved energy efficiency and energy services; it is also designed to stimulate market development for energy services and for energy efficiency in general; it applies to distribution and retail sales to most final customers of most types of end-use energy, such as electricity, gas, district heating, heating oil, and most of the transport fuel sector.
it is ‘fuel neutral’ in that it seeks to improve energy efficiency regardless of the primary energy involved.
we have also proposed that member states place an obligation on their energy distributors or retailers above a certain size, requiring them to offer their end-use customers energy efficiency measures or, alternatively, fulfil other energy efficiency obligations, while allowing the necessary flexibility.
the proposal also sets forth requirements for member states to promote financial instruments for saving energy, such as performance contracting and third-party financing contracts; to improve metering and consumer information; and to promote the certification of energy service providers and improve the quality and use of energy audits.
the proposal also provides for member state regulators to improve their distribution tariff structures when possible, in order to promote energy efficiency.
two issues that were discussed extensively in the european parliament and in the council were the compulsory character of the targets and the measurement systems for energy efficiency achievements.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
mr president, we are dealing with a subject which is central to climate policy.
the energy services directive is intended to complement the emissions trading directive by targeting savings to areas outside it and continuing the energy saving process at the level of energy end-users.
i myself, as the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, wished that this would have given us the opportunity to correct the problems and distortions of competition which the emissions trading directive contains.
i was opposed to the last to the common energy saving targets for all member states because i thought they would punish countries which had been saving energy for a long time.
the committee on the environment endorsed the commission's similar savings targets.
my own country, finland, which has been investing for years in energy efficiency, is facing a very different challenge from poland, for example.
and best of all, in a sustainable way.
my group supports any energy savings that are possible.
they are essential if we are to meet the kyoto targets and reduce our dependence on energy imports.
the proposal under consideration is ambitious, in particular the proposals for energy saving targets are even stricter than the commission's proposal.
thus, even the annual 1% savings target is unfair, because in finland it represents an additional eur 450 million billion to the current funding for energy savings.
it is sensible to create a database which will make existing environmental information available to a wider and more diverse audience.
the greens want to emphasise that citizens should have the right to freely access to information relevant to their lives and health, for example on environmental pollution, even if many polluters do not like it.
mr president, the success of community environmental policy depends on the availability of reliable scientific information and the smooth transmission of that information.
the availability of spatial data is a basic prerequisite for scientific evaluation under environmental legislation.
the aim is to provide an adequate information base for decision-making on environmental policies and thus to promote sustainable development.
one of them is the directive on public access to environmental information, for which i myself was the rapporteur.
the main objective is to reduce the obstacles that hinder the sharing of environmental data between public authorities.
the community spatial information infrastructure complements the directives on the re-use of public sector information and on public access to environmental information.
i personally think it is very important that the creation of spatial information infrastructure should focus specifically on environmental policy, so that there are practical grounds for the centralisation of information.
the countryside and the environment; and diversifying rural economies and improving the quality of life in rural areas.
similarly, environmental support for agriculture is becoming more important as environmental issues become more topical.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
transparency in government and awareness of the environment, including its risks, among citizens are key factors in this respect.
either way it is a waste of money.
in the present climate, there can be no functioning europol.
we would have liked to have had more economic, social and environmental issues, more action to combat unemployment and poverty and more solidarity with the developing countries.
we now face a challenging task in setting the appropriate timetable and limit values for the release of other pahs into the environment.
pahs do not dissolve in water, they accumulate in the food chain and, once in nature, they re-enter the carbon cycle, causing permanent damage to the environment.
common test methods should therefore be adopted to ensure that emissions are brought under control quickly.
transport emissions are one of the most common and worst sources of pahs in the air we breathe.
in particular, tyre waste releases large quantities of compounds into the environment and water in the form of small particles.
it is now necessary to define sustainable limit values that minimise environmental emissions of benzopyrene, while recognising the need for plasticizers in the tyre industry.
in an economic climate characterised by unsatisfactory budget deficits and widespread unemployment, several points deserve special emphasis.
second, we can harness the energy of european competition by adopting and implementing the services directive as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner for the environment, first of all i would like to thank all of you who have contributed to the preparation of this parliament's report.
environmental technologies are one of the strongest bridges linking the three pillars of the eu's growth and competitiveness strategy.
environmental technologies offer an encouraging opportunity to strengthen european growth, competitiveness and employment while improving environmental protection.
the commission communication on the environmental technologies action programme seeks to set the direction for the eu and its member states to generate new insights and viable ideas, and also to show how to create a fair and competitive market outlook for eco-efficient innovations.
as rapporteur, i have taken as a guiding principle that only sufficient demand will generate new innovation and create a sustainable market.
environmental legislation must be sufficiently ambitious, clear and long-term to enable the development of new environmental technologies.
the starting point must be that environmental costs are fully included in the price of the product.
the right and competitive price for a product, good or service is found when the price tag is also put on the environmental hazard.
this price tag can be set by, among other things, environmental taxes and other charges.
the price of oil and other scarce natural resources is already so high that new and more sustainable forms of energy must be found.
europe must invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
the development and deployment of environmental technologies must be supported by the rural development, cohesion and regional development funds.
citizens must also be informed about the environmental sustainability of products and services throughout their life cycle, through the use of clear labelling and reliable certificates.
the lisbon strategy's goal of sustainable growth, improved competitiveness and quality jobs, combined with a high level of environmental protection, is achievable.
however, this requires an unprejudiced investment in research, product development and promotion of market access for environmental technologies.
as part of the implementation of the lisbon strategy, the european union should set itself the objective of having a 50% share of the growing global environmental technology market.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that a literal dirty war is being waged against the health of citizens and the environment, with the commission postponing the presentation of its air quality strategy.
this delay is contrary to what we have agreed in the context of the sixth environment action programme.
air pollution is sickening and deadly.
the opinion polls show that citizens want the european union to take action, in particular, to improve the environment.
if they and commission president barroso consider that environmental protection is detrimental to competitiveness, i ask them to present the evidence publicly.
environmental protection is a factor in competitiveness.
the cost of the environmental reforms implemented so far shows that they have all been cheaper than estimated.
promoting environmental protection would be the kind of leadership that europe is in dire need of at the moment.
i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the barcelona european council asked the european council next spring to assess the implementation of the internal energy market, that is to say the transposition of this proposal into national legislation.
from an ecological point of view, energy efficiency and modern environmental technologies must of course be given special attention.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the rapporteur, mr chichester, is right in assuming that we are all in agreement that energy consumption is increasing and that electricity is increasing its share of energy consumption.
it is desirable for companies to develop software where the best innovation environment is available, regardless of the extent of patent protection in the geographical area.
it creates an uncertain environment for businesses and investments.
the reform of eu policies must be based on sustainable principles.
it aims to ensure the general welfare of this vast region with its abundant natural resources through effective and sustainable regional cooperation.
the policy on the northern dimension has already placed an increasing emphasis on relations and cooperation with north-west russia, which will be strengthened in the years after 2006. the second action plan covers five areas considered essential for the northern countries: business and infrastructure economics, human resources development - education, culture, research and health -, the environment and nuclear safety, crossborder cooperation and, finally, justice and home affairs.
once all parties have demonstrated this commitment, we could look at new partnerships in the northern region which would be inspired by the successful model of the northern dimension environmental partnership, for which the european union is the main funder and which illustrates the very fruitful cooperation established between the four relevant international financial institutions, russia and the commission.
it should also continue to include certain additional objectives relating to the specific characteristics of the north, in particular its fragile environment, the issue of indigenous peoples, health and social welfare.
it is no longer enough, as the union expands, and at the same time the need is great, i want the northern dimension and the baltic sea strategy to become a research project for the benefit of the people of the region and for the protection of the environment.
it is widely recognised in the european union that the mediterranean region needs to be given a prominent role in defending the safety and well-being of its citizens and the stable and sustainable development of our continent.
the practical work of the northern dimension is based on partnerships, and the best example of this is the implementation of environmental partnerships, and the way in which environmental partnerships have been implemented can be an example for all other eu regional projects.
in short, with the help of the partner countries and the eu's contribution of eur 75 million, environmental projects worth eur 2 billion have either been launched or are planned.
the south-west st. petersburg wastewater treatment plant, which will play a significant role in reducing the waste load in the baltic sea, will be completed this autumn.
environmental toxins are high, with seals and eels, for example, containing about five times as many toxins as the atlantic ocean.
some of these problems can only be solved in cooperation with russia, but others, such as agricultural emissions, are matters which the european union and its member states must resolve themselves.
the world has been thrown into a state of disorder that we humanists cannot ignore: there are street children and prostitutes, criminals and terrorists, there are major environmental problems.
the northern dimension should also cover cooperation with oil-rich norway and fishery and energy-rich iceland.
whether it is the environment, health or culture, everything has a northern dimension, as does the eu's mediterranean policy.
the environmental partnership and the social and health partnership stand out most clearly among the hundreds of projects.
mr president, the eu's best investments in the environment and health continue to be made behind finland's eastern border, and it is on that border that the interests of the whole eu are safeguarded above all by the finns.
with the transition from neighbourhood to membership of our partners in the northern dimension, a comprehensive strategy for the development of the baltic sea region is needed, in which the member states and the commission can work together to improve environmental protection and energy efficiency in the region, as well as to improve its internal transport connections.
this region has great economic development potential and imminent challenges, including environmental policy issues that must be on the agenda of the eu.
a well-functioning union needs a well-functioning östersjöregion, and the region needs the eu to be able to solve a wide range of problems, both environmental, social and economic.
the energy supply must be more balanced.
the second point is that i think we need rules based on sustainable development.
the focus now must be on developing clean alternatives with a sustainable future, such as renewable energy and improving energy efficiency.
it would be foolish now to waste resources on fossil alternatives even dirtier than oil, such as coal-fired fluid or oil shale.
the ambitions and actions for the development of renewable energy sources are not working fast enough.
the profits of companies should be directed towards the development of sustainable alternative forms of energy.
finally, commissioner piebalgs, what is the state of play of the energy dialogue between the european union and russia?
mr president, i support those who have understood that the dependence on oil must be broken by a decisive investment in renewable energy sources and energy saving.
the eu must support the breakthrough of new environmental technologies.
new innovations can not only increase energy self-sufficiency, but also improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
many environmentally friendly renewable energy sources are already within our reach.
it is the only renewable energy source which can replace liquid fuels for transport.
at least 25% of the eu's total energy consumption must come from renewable sources by 2020.
i would like to thank mr menéndez del valle, mr president, for his successful report, which has included human rights issues in an exemplary way in the partnership and has not, as is so often the case, been set aside as a separate issue.
mr president, commissioner, in his own way, the rapporteur, mr turmes, has drawn up a thorough report, this time on the strategy for the use of renewable energy sources.
both the world's population and its energy consumption are projected to continue to grow.
when it comes to renewable biofuels and energy crops, it is important to note that energy production competes with food production on the same land area.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, and it is hoping that the commission will be able to take this into account in its proposals for the future.
we support the funding of research into renewable energy sources and energy efficiency in the seventh framework programme for research and development, as does turmes.
humanity must explore this energy-producing potential thoroughly.
it is an energy asset that is an intermediate between renewable and non-renewable energy sources.
we are facing problems that require the coordination of the world's population, food production and renewable energy production.
the aim of the report is to improve the control environment as it stands, to make the use of money more transparent and more understandable and to get rid of fraud and mismanagement.
i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the proposal of the committee on the environment and the green group and the gue model which would guarantee the testing of chemicals in consumer products.
mr president, the eu's chemicals regulation must above all ensure the protection of human health and the highest possible level of environmental protection.
in this difficult situation, i think that the rapporteur, mr sacconi, has done an excellent job and the result obtained by the committee on the environment was a testament to the dignity of his work.
it must ensure both the safe operation of nuclear installations and the availability of sufficient resources to maintain reactors isolated from the environment for thousands of years.
both are currently in a condition to be used, according to the international atomic energy agency.
the energy crisis in europe is continuing, partly because of the arbitrary fluctuations in the price of oil.
consumption is increasing, and at the same time we must finally start to tackle the greenhouse effect.
however, the new small member states, which do not have sufficient alternative forms of energy, will be forced to close their power plants due to the pressure from the old member states during the accession phase.
but the problem remains: our energy consumption is growing, and renewables are not going to be able to make up the difference.
in sweden, for example, the energy used for heating has multiplied in ten years.
we need a new energy policy.
mr president, i should like to add ‘eutrophication’ – probably the most serious ecological problem in the baltic sea – to the text distributed to you.
if the trapping were made as difficult as the proposal suggests, the loss of biodiversity would be enormous.
it must be a framework rather than a lack of detail, and it must guarantee a competitive environment and a safe service for consumers.
europe, which is really investing in energy efficiency, is again setting an example for other continents.
we are setting an example for the rest of the world, because serious and effective action is needed now that climate change is threatening us all.
every year, in my own country, for example, it is considered impossible unless we already have an energy-efficient starting point.
it is of course unreasonable to disregard some of the active energy saving work already done because it has been done so-called too early.
in my country, guidelines for energy-efficient public procurement and buildings are already in place.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i am relieved that the energy services directive has improved in the negotiations with the council.
i hoped that this directive would have given an opportunity to correct the distortions of competition which the failed emissions trading directive entails.
i was opposed to the last to binding savings targets common to all member states because i thought they would punish countries which had long been taking energy-saving measures.