mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of global warming, on which ignorance goes hand in hand with very strong judgments, i shall confine myself to a few questions.
first question: is there really significant and sustainable warming?
fourthly, if the warming is due to the release of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide into the atmosphere from the human combustion of fossil organic energy sources, then action is certainly needed, but is it worthwhile for western europe to make an effort at the expense of its own competitiveness, while other powers, such as the united states and china, the world's first and second largest polluters, wash their hands of it, thus jeopardizing the success of the operation, despite the encouraging information from some americans that the previous speaker has just given us?
finally, fifth and last, systematic reforestation and the use of renewable or new energy sources must be encouraged.
in the meantime, should we not, even from an ecological point of view, consider diversifying energy sources, particularly nuclear energy?
the french national front, 25 years ago, was the first political force to legitimately draw attention to the risks of nuclear energy, a prediction which was unfortunately confirmed by the chernobyl disaster.
but as science advances and technology can evolve, fusion would use the material without leaving the sustainably hazardous waste of current processes.
the three pillars of competitiveness, social development and environmental protection must therefore be given equal weight.
this is possible if we agree to use powerful levers such as the central bank or the taxation of the capital of large public clusters; to establish rules to empower enterprises in social, environmental, democratic and ethical terms; to direct the appropriations thus released towards major policy priorities which are publicly debated, democratically established and periodically evaluated.
we need more europe in a globalised society, faced with terrorism, migratory flows, climate change, economic upheaval.
we need europe to protect and preserve our environment and, finally, we need a europe that has weight in the world, with a european defence, military and civil, and a genuine foreign policy.
it would make possible the political, social and ecological europe we are advocating.
we agree with you, but we disagree with mr barroso: competitiveness must go hand in hand with sustainable growth, social solidarity and environmental responsibility.
you have stressed that social ambition and the ambition for sustainable development must not be contrasted with the ambition for competitiveness.
the treaty also affirms europe's objectives in the direction of a social market economy, sustainable development and the fight against discrimination.
it would make possible the political, social and ecological europe we are advocating.
europe could propose at the kobe conference that the global environmental fund be used for the development of civil security units or that a voluntary contribution fund be set up to finance an early warning system, such as exists in the indian ocean.
but this courageous stance will only be sustainable if he gets strong signals quickly, that is by this summer, that this attitude is not in any way a form of capitulation.
a new north-south cooperation policy should be based on much more ambitious objectives, particularly in the fields of energy, water, health, education and the affirmation, or clarification, of the notion of a global public good.
the health and environmental requirements themselves are at risk - this has just been said - of being revised downwards in the name of competitiveness, as is the case in the reach programme.
this is probably what mr barroso had in mind when he referred to the friendly business environment in the report which was given to us.
i am afraid that some people still oppose competitiveness and the environment.
it means that we have not understood anything about sustainable development when we have experienced, on 26 december last, the horror in asia, when scientists continue to sound the alarm bells about the rapid evolution of climate change and its consequences.
it is important to understand that taking the environment into account is a competitive advantage: this is how new innovative technologies will develop and promise new jobs.
competitiveness, the environment and solidarity are the new european pillars.
if you want to succeed in this perspective, you will have to base this strategy on the following three pillars: financial perspectives in the service of the implementation of the strategy; a stability pact that allows the union to achieve growth and competitiveness while respecting sustainable development and employment; the european union's policies are consistent with this strategy.
the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0002/2005) by mr paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing a multiannual community programme to make european digital content more accessible, usable and exploitable [10458/4/2004 - c6-0140/2004 - 2004/0025 (cod)).
by focusing on growth and jobs, it aims to create the conditions for proper living standards, social justice for all and environmental sustainability.
we all agree on the need to protect the safety of individuals and the environment properly.
on the other hand, we should also address the fear that certain elements of the proposal would put a key european industry in serious difficulty without adding real value in the fields of health and the environment.
this set of instruments will include proposals on the seventh framework programme for research and development; consumer protection and public health; energy including renewable energy sources; competitiveness and innovation in respect of freedom, security and justice.
ladies and gentlemen, sustainable development and the question of climate change are both firmly on the commission's agenda.
on 9 february, we adopted a communication on sustainable development and another entitled 'beating climate change'.
the economic pillar, the sustainable development strategy and the new social agenda are two other complementary pillars of our strategy for the next five years.
to develop growth and employment means to rely on innovation and research, and above all to reconcile environmental policy and industrial policy.
environmental considerations are not constraints or obstacles.
the european union is promoting innovation and increasing the competitiveness of its industry through high environmental standards.
i am thinking of the development of renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar energy, biofuels and clean transport, all of which offer our industries a real opportunity in terms of jobs and exports.
we note with interest, mr president of the commission, your proposals in this area, in particular the regulation on measures to be taken against air pollution.
sustainable economic development, a return to growth, depends first and foremost on the health of our companies, but also on the health of the men and women who are the actors in our economy.
as regards demographic trends in europe, the green paper must be followed up rapidly by concrete measures: lifelong learning, sustainability of our health systems, research into neurodegenerative diseases.
so it is political energy that we need today to get the engine of our performance, which is the very essence of our jobs, going.
you have that energy.
i believe that one of the other important contributions of the social forums has been to inscribe the challenge of liberal globalization, the economic and social injustices it engenders, its often destructive effects on the ecological balance of the planet, not in the illusion that national or sovereign solutions must be found, not in a rejection of the very idea of globalization, but in the idea that globalization must be transformed, transform its rules, its institutions, to allow another globalization, a globalization of solidarity, of democratic achievements, of human rights, a globalization that ensures the right of all peoples to development, justice and peace.
on the one hand, the world social forum was a huge success this year - 155 000 registered participants, 135 countries, that's a lot - with a new tone, because, indeed, on a number of themes - social, environmental, economic, financial - many networks continued to be set up, worked extremely seriously, in a very concrete way, precisely to bring about a number of proposals, still in the making but very real.
they are not getting worse because of some plague that fell from the sky, but because the policies that have been carried out for several years in terms of structural adjustment, in terms of reducing public expenditure have led to a worsening of inequality and poverty, to a further degradation of the environment and the planet as a whole.
i am not satisfied with it, because in the end - and you will allow me to be particularly direct and simple - the question we can ask ourselves today with the proposals you have made is whether the european union really wants to preserve its biodiversity and if so, it is like a cathedral, we must put in the means to manage the natura 2000 network.
our fellow citizens share our ambition to protect biodiversity and see that we are drawing up texts, but when it comes to providing the means, europe is not up to the task.
our citizens accept the idea of sustainable development in the belief that we can combine the defence of the planet with economic development and employment, and when it comes to finding the ways and means to achieve this, europe is not up to the task.
so we need to have a specific tool in life+ and we need to keep two pillars: a general environmental pillar and a pillar for life nature, as we did before.
we believe that the protection of biodiversity is a step forward, that this action is compatible with the development of rural areas and the economic future of our country.
the actions in both cases are closely linked, whether the objectives are related to local development, environmental protection or the maintenance of biodiversity.
the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by mrs corien wortmann-kool (a6-0013/2005) on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on pollution caused by ships and the introduction of penalties for infringements.
but this same convention must be read in conjunction with the convention on the law of the sea: it gives the coastal states the opportunity to strengthen their measures to prevent and combat pollution in their territorial sea, and it is this provision which is contained in the convention on the law of the sea which we have invoked.
many leading scientists and non-governmental organisations, specialists in the marine environment, advocate the adoption of such a reduction plan.
these are the first steps in adopting an ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
we know that all the policies and all the wishes we formulate must first rely on the energy of the societies themselves to free themselves from complicated and freedom-threatening situations.
the first is to create a climate of political reform, and the people of the south are ready to support it.
let us talk about co-development based on a foundation of common values: democracy, good governance, the status of women, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue.
i personally hope that they will take full advantage of them, because europe is not only defending itself against marine pollution but is also sending an international message that is even bolder than marpol legislation and is able to bring about worldwide changes in legislation against pollution and against piracy.
i would like to conclude by expressing a wish that the legislation we have adopted to combat emissions should be revised with the same ambition.
i therefore believe that a system of household waste, a port taxation with port facilities, should be introduced and that all ships should be given the opportunity to discharge their waste in dedicated facilities in all european ports.
if we take this further, i believe we will be the first in the world today in terms of safety and sanctions against pollution.
there are those from everywhere, from the european environment agency in copenhagen to the european food safety agency in parma to the european agency for safety and health at work in bilbao.
there is the continuing bleeding out of jobs in this sector, the risk of losing technological know-how, the economic impacts on other activities, automotive, aeronautics, energy production, construction, etc.
there is a real risk that the vessels sent to asian countries will not be adapted to the fishing customs and environment of those countries.
this attack is aimed at all lebanese, regardless of their religious or political affiliation, in order to create a climate of terror among the population.
perhaps the council should take the initiative in organizing a peace conference on lebanon, in order to take advantage of the current climate in the middle east, which is conducive to the settlement of long-standing conflicts.
the international investigation, which is essential, must shed light on the responsibility of those who seek to destabilise lebanon and create a climate of terror.
i would also like to highlight the remarkable progress made by this new regulation, not only in terms of simplifying the number of schemes, while concentrating the benefits of the gsp on those countries which need it most, or in terms of encouraging compliance with sustainable development and good governance practices, but also in terms of the rapid adoption of the new regulation, in order to provide additional trade support to the countries affected by the tsunami as soon as possible.
if we really want to help poor countries to benefit from globalisation, we need to rethink the rules of global trade as a whole in a more equitable way, linking trade and sustainable development in our thinking.
divergences between national laws create a favourable environment for criminal networks to exploit these differences.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution.
we believe that economic competitiveness can only be achieved by taking equal care of social and environmental issues.
we now feel that there is still an imbalance, that the main focus of the concrete proposals is on competitiveness, the economy and structural reforms, and that there is a lack of incentives, indications and legislative initiatives in the field of social cohesion and the environment.
our strengths are in innovation, the quality of our training, our environment and the promotion of our know-how.
that is why we have asked that every legislative proposal be subject to an economic and social impact assessment, as well as an environmental impact assessment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us is based on the necessary balance between the three pillars of the lisbon strategy: economic, of course, but also social and environmental.
in this way we will demonstrate to our fellow citizens our desire to give substance to a competitive europe, of course, but also a europe based on social cohesion and on the recovery and maintenance of a healthy environment.
this association of peoples will be possible only if there is a general good climate in public opinion towards the work of the union and its institutions.
more liberalization of markets, more regulatory constraints on businesses, fewer public services, more european and global competition, less public funding, less social protection... the social and environmental objectives of lisbon, first version, are over: there is room for 'all competition', 'all productivity'.
and if the council were to keep its commitments, it would not, as you have done this morning and again this evening, seek new impetus to overcome the euro-sinistrosis, because göteborg had paved the way and given new hope by proposing, every spring, a special summit to measure progress on sustainable development, mrs wallström knows what i am talking about.
what are your innovative, binding and concrete plans to combat climate change, to counter the degradation of biodiversity?
the commission has not yet taken account of the biodiversity criterion.
natura 2000 is a mandatory policy for the conservation of biodiversity and we have a duty to implement it.
the priority of the european union is rightly growth and employment and one may wonder how much weight will biodiversity issues have in relation to economic development projects.
we are asking for this fund to be included in the new life+ instrument, because we cannot talk about biodiversity over a long period of time in the context of sustainable development and dangerously compromise the few financial instruments that allow action to be taken in favour of biodiversity.
this major axis aims to maintain the coherence and sustainability of the cmo by requiring that the european union be able to maintain control of the supply of sugar on its market.
the canary industry is a major issue for the french overseas departments (dom) in terms of social, economic and environmental balance.
everyone - including you, madam commissioner, and the european commission as a whole - recognises the undeniable benefits of organic farming, not only for the environment, biodiversity and health, but also for employment and rural development.
we believe that organic farming can be the spearhead of a truly sustainable agriculture.
we must therefore change this situation, go back to the time of the cro-magnon man, where in the landscapes of biodiversity, the 130 000 organic farmers roam, the 230 000 organic cows live, the 400 000 organic sheep, the 230 000 organic pigs.
first, with regard to public support for sustainable agriculture, the action plan acknowledges the role of organic farming in society.
the action plan recommends that member states make full use of the rural development policy possibilities available; not only agri-environmental measures, but also investment, extension services, quality schemes and all the other rural development elements that can be used to help organic farmers extend their production.
it is time for the european union to support those who are genuinely fighting corruption, for the establishment of a rule of law respecting democratic rules, for example by making the granting of our aid conditional on respect for democracy, human rights and the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
mr president, this initiative is interesting, but we in the epp think it would be better to have a discussion with the commission in the environment committee in order to follow the usual procedures and to put the matter before the environment committee.
if i may say so, i am in complete agreement with the chairman of the committee on the environment, mr florenz.
we must work to find sustainable solutions for migrants that respect their fundamental rights.
finally, i would like to thank the commission departments, the energy and transport dg and the main professional players in the sectors, in particular shipowners, ports and logistics, who have actively participated in our consultation work.
in its 2001 white paper on european transport policy for 2010, the european commission recalled the important role of short sea shipping in reducing greenhouse gases and stressed the need to simplify its regulatory framework.
secondly, recent data on the environmental impact of short sea shipping show that it has a significantly lower negative impact than road transport.
our duty is to advance short sea shipping to reconcile environmental protection, quality of life and economic growth.
the report stresses the potential for developing short sea shipping for passenger transport, the possibilities of creating thousands of jobs, the importance of links between short sea shipping and inland waterways, the role of short sea shipping for islands, compliance with community competition rules and, finally, the improvement of the environmental performance of short sea shipping.
the european union's policy of environmental protection, regional development and territorial cohesion will thus be strengthened for the well-being of our citizens and future generations.
it is a question of making it possible to transport throughout europe the goods needed to keep our economies running, while seeking maximum safety for our citizens and constantly ensuring the preservation of our environment.
many of the cabotage vessels are often garbage boats that ply our coasts, often in such a state that they do not cause real ecological disasters.
i would like to stress that in maritime matters safety and respect for the environment must be paramount, competition secondary.
the communication on policy coherence for development identifies no less than eleven priority areas where the challenge of achieving synergies with development policy objectives is considered particularly relevant, for example in the area of trade - of course - research, the environment, agriculture, fisheries, and so on.
the european union must develop incentive measures and support african countries in their efforts to promote social cohesion, employment and environmental protection.
much remains to be done in the field of justice and home affairs, particularly in the fight against corruption, organised crime, border control, the recognition and protection of minorities, including roma and hungarian minorities, in the field of competition and in the field of the environment.
mr president of the council, mr barroso, we will be very attentive to the proposals you will make to us at the june council on the sustainable development strategy in relation to the economic and social recovery required by the lisbon process.
climate change is another european challenge.
the environment is also at stake, as soon as kyoto is in place.
however, since we do not want to vote no and we say that we cannot, for example, vote yes today in view of the situation in bulgaria with regard to nuclear energy, we simply ask that the vote on the assent be postponed and that there be first, in accordance with the terms of the agreement with the commission, an interim report from the committee on foreign affairs so that we can vote on the assent at the beginning of 2006, a year before accession.
it recalls that this will be the first time - thanks to a green proposal accepted by the foreign affairs committee - that the european parliament will be fully involved in the decision-making process, in particular if the safeguard clause is activated - a clause which means that accession can be postponed by one year if either country is not ready in 2007. the commissioner also welcomed the fact that the final report adopted by the plenary contained her amendments: - calling for the adoption of clear and prudent coexistence rules to avoid the spread of gm varieties; - underlining the european parliament's concern about the rosia montana project - and calling for in-depth preliminary impact studies of the project's impact on the environment.
i could therefore stop here and not waste my time or your time, but i would not like to stop you from dreaming, because your dreams are of great interest to the sovereigntists who are campaigning today in france and elsewhere.
mr president, the alstom power boiler case puts us all on the back foot of our commitment to building a europe of full employment, with strong industry and advanced technology, a europe which cares about the environment, a europe which is free from american technological and financial domination.
with the implementation of the kyoto protocol and the need to diversify energy sources, it is clear that such technologies have enormous potential.
a few months ago, on 7 july 2004, the european commission approved aid granted by france to alstom under strict conditions of sale, but with the objective not only of restoring healthy conditions of competition but also of ensuring the sustainability of alstom's industry and its various subsidiaries.
from the very perspective of the european union's priorities under the lisbon strategy, which we discussed recently, which is to make europe develop its skills and technology and become the most competitive economy in the world, from the perspective of our objectives in terms of sustainable development and clean energy, this society is a strategic tool and it turns out that obviously many jobs depend on it.
in principle, the commission is committed to finding partnership solutions which take account of all economic, social and environmental aspects.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
it was, of course, a question of saving the future of the workers but also of preserving a jewel of the european energy and transport industry.
it should be noted that alstom power boiler is a leader in clean coal production and is developing carbon capture technologies.
it has been brought to the attention of the european partners: the commissioners responsible for employment, industry, trade, competition and the environment, who are awaiting your conclusions.
it is the result of the proposals submitted to the council in december 2002 for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, as you said, in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy.
it has led to the amendment of the technical provisions proposed by the commission, but in such a way as to ensure that these stocks remain within biological limits, while recalling that the new common fisheries policy aims to enable the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources, taking into account in a balanced way the environmental, social and economic implications.
the fishing mortality rate of 0.27 is acceptable because it is consistent with the implementation plan of the world summit on sustainable development adopted in johannesburg in 2002. i also agree that it is appropriate that a recovery plan should anticipate a recovery taking place within less than five years.
this would not achieve the aim of sustainable exploitation.
i would hope that perhaps tomorrow, when we consider the amendments, we will also recognise, as we are called to do by the work of undp on the degradation of ecosystems and the impacts of pollution on our ability on a global scale to achieve the millennium development goals, the right to development as an inalienable human right, as stated in a 1986 un declaration.
this was reiterated at the johannesburg summit as a key reference point for environmental and social standards and human rights.
the agenda calls for the report (a6-0061/2005) by mrs klaβ, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the protection of groundwater against pollution.
but the question that can be asked today is whether the objectives of the water framework directive and the objectives of preventing and controlling groundwater pollution will be achieved through the proposals contained in the report.
the conservation of groundwater is indeed a crucial issue since it concerns our drinking water reserves for ourselves, that is, for today, but also for future generations, and for the entire water ecosystem.
the application of the precautionary principle would require that pollution prevention be given priority over the restoration or cleaning of groundwater, assuming that it can be seriously considered to easily clean or depollute a groundwater table.
to ensure the protection of groundwater, the most urgent of emergencies would be to remove the sources of pollution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
in fact, this is tantamount to officially accepting agricultural pollution, which is unacceptable, especially since we know that the main cause of groundwater pollution is, of course, agriculture.
if certain amendments were to be adopted, this would be tantamount to allowing pollution and, of course, ultimately making european consumers pay the price for drinking water that has been polluted almost legally.
the vote will take place at 11 a.m. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
finally, certain local specificities require special consideration of historical pollution without irrevocably leading to the declassification of these water bodies.
of course, the measures provided for in the water framework directive to prevent any spread of pollution must apply in these cases.
unforeseen pollution may occur and in this case temporary prohibition measures must be taken, which do not, however, irrevocably lead to the declassification of the municipality.
it is our duty to do everything possible to prevent marine pollution from accidents or from the dumping of gases, which too often harm our coastal resorts.
the commission accepts parliament’s amendments insofar as they correspond to the political agreement reached between parliament and the presidency and confirmed by coreper on 2 may 2005.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
it is common sense to understand that, except for tasks clearly demanded by the person who is carrying them out, working, as is the case in some countries of the european union, 60 hours a week - or even worse, 63 hours with the authorization granted in 1993 - eventually poses problems of adaptation to one's personal, family and social environment.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
mr moreno sánchez has underlined the need to make progress on all the issues in this wide-ranging agenda, with a clear emphasis - which i strongly support - on the objectives of poverty reduction and sustainable development.
if we really want to help poor countries benefit from globalisation, we need to rethink the rules of global trade in a more equitable way, linking trade and sustainable development in our thinking.
if we are generally agreed that services relating to health, education, the cultural and audiovisual sectors should be exempted from the negotiations, we must not forget those relating to basic needs such as water and energy, since we cannot demand that developing countries liberalize these services in such a way as to lead to their dismantling.
i'm very worried that we'll never be able, by 2015, to halve the percentage of the population that doesn't have sustainable access to water.
it is now up to the european union to enforce these agreements protecting textile designs and designs, in order to ensure the sustainability of our textile industry.
my second point concerns the general climate.
so, although we may talk about structural reforms, they will not be acceptable, they will not be acceptable in the current climate.
thirdly, in this general climate, the tool we have in our hands, the broad economic policy guidelines, should be the fundamental tool for ex ante work.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, for having taken over this proposal on the guidelines for trans-european energy networks and for having carried out a focused analysis in her report which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on industry, research and energy.
the challenge of the proposal is to build a legal instrument that will be efficient in delivering the necessary energy transmission infrastructure, while developing the appropriate cooperation with the private sector and the member states.
the security of energy supply and the functioning of the internal energy market are key policy issues.
these objectives are taken up in the trans-european energy – ten-e – guidelines aiming at the installation of an electricity and gas network of truly european character by better linking the fragmented national networks.
the trans-european energy networks policy aims at securing and diversifying additional gas import capacity from sources in russia, norway, the caspian basin region, northern africa and the middle east, and providing the necessary interconnection capacity between member states.
since the adoption of the existing guidelines for trans-european energy networks in june 2003, the need has arisen fully to integrate the new member states and candidate countries in these guidelines and further to adapt those guidelines to the new european neighbourhood policy.
it aims at explicitly incorporating the ten new member states into the priority projects, as well as the incorporation of essential energy connections with third countries.
i would also like to thank the secretariat of the committee on industry, research and energy and my assistant for their help.
this approach for the transeuropean energy networks corresponds in fact to the approach adopted for the transeuropean land transport networks.
the committee on industry, research and energy supports the new concepts introduced by the european commission to define priorities for action, in particular the qualification of projects of european interest on priority axes and the appointment of a european coordinator, provided, however, that this is limited to complex projects with particularly difficult implementation conditions and that it is done in consultation with the member states.
the report voted by the committee on industry encourages the member states to cooperate with each other where necessary by implementing transnational investigation procedures taking into account determining criteria such as security of supply, the impact of the project on the environment, the opinion of the population of the territory concerned, etc.
this is why the financial envelope for projects should be increased to eur 60 million, for example to better address environmental constraints, which may require more comprehensive feasibility studies.
before concluding, i would also stress that the committee on industry justifies the inclusion of olefin transport in this text not only in view of the importance of such networks on european territory for the european chemical industry, but also in view of the safety and environmental gains which result from a reduction in road transport.
i also think it is necessary to start thinking about the integration of the transeuropean energy networks into the european corridors envisaged for the land transport sector.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
a good migration policy implies a genuine desire to help the sustainable development of emerging countries and not to regard them cynically as a democratic reservoir of cheap labour for the needs of the european union.
during the many debates, each mep conceded that natura 2000 was an integral part of eu policies, that the first experiences with site management had produced positive results, and even better, that they had helped to lay the foundations for sustainable development in areas of high biological value.
the environment, previously constrained, proved to be an asset for new development based on the consideration of the value of the national natural heritage.
the european parliament will have to make up for this by including a section on natura 2000 in this financial instrument for the environment.
finally, it is a false solution for those who refuse to take decisions in favour of a better distribution of public support for agriculture and a more thorough revision of the cap in the direction of a more sustainable agriculture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr kofi annan said that attacks on the environment, water shortages and the consequences of climate change are now killing more people than terrorist attacks.
the un's proposals for environmental reform, although mentioned, are not yet up to the challenges facing the planet.
yet it is indeed the responsibility of the united nations to organize the means to deal with the predicted disasters, which will result in millions of ecological refugees.
who will defend nature in the wto trade arbitration, which has already shown how little it cares about the damage it causes to the environment?
because the environment is not a commodity, because environmental standards must take precedence over trade, because the legal relationship must be clarified in the settlement of disputes between the wto and multilateral environmental agreements within the united nations system itself, the united nations environment programme must be transformed into a global environmental organization, in order to defend our common good, the planet that welcomes us.
all developing countries depend on the imf for their financing and their benevolence in order to obtain the loans necessary for their sustainable development.
if we can add a few more points, just to clarify, we suggest in one of our amendments that education expenditure should be included among the relevant factors that could justify an increase in the deficit, along with research expenditure, and that expenditure on the stability of the ecological balance of the planet should be explicitly mentioned among the objectives of the union.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs carmen fraga estévez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean and amending regulations (ec) no 2847/93 and (ec) no 973/2001 (com (2003) 0589 - c5-0480/2003 - 2003/0229 (cns)) (a6-0112/2005).
i would like to congratulate mrs fraga, who has done a difficult and delicate but urgent job of regulating and enabling sustainable fishing in the mediterranean, a sea which is itself threatened by extremely problematic developments: various forms of pollution, diminishing resources, threats to biodiversity.
it is necessary to preserve for future generations a rich and diverse environment and vital food resources.
sustainable management of the marine ecosystem is an imperative.
the regulation before us is a compromise, and i certainly understand the intention of this compromise: it is a compromise between the various sovereign nations which make up europe, but also between the use and preservation of the environment.
for years, fishermen in this sector have made considerable efforts to limit the impact of their activity on the ecosystem, in particular with regard to the protection of cetaceans.
this report was the occasion for good collaboration between the three european institutions and industry with convergence on environmental requirements.
we have here a case where environmental ambition, backed up by research, makes it possible to consolidate this industrial sector and hence employment and improve the quality of products.
the current increasingly anarchic climate, which culminated in monday evening’s resignation of president carlos mesa, is deeply worrying.
in conclusion, the key issue is the promotion of equitable and sustainable development.
whether it's health, prevention, environmental risks, waste management, or conservation of resources, we are interdependent.
but if there's one thing i know, it's that if you want to modernise europe, it has to be an ecologically sustainable and socially sustainable modernisation.
there are economic and social problems, there are environmental problems.
what a waste, mr. prime minister!
at the outset, the intangible is not technical and everything that connects to the material world, involves matter or energy or involves tools, is patentable.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
thus we would make clear, for example, that investments to improve the energy efficiency of housing are eligible for co-financing and that the same is true for investments to improve the environment around social housing.
this indicates that we have a common understanding that the new fund should serve the purpose of implementing the cfp and aim at achieving sustainable development of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the community.
i do not share the view of the rapporteur that the fund focuses too much on the environmental dimension.
it focuses on the attainment of sustainable fisheries in the long term in the interests of fishermen themselves – sustainability in all senses of the word: economic, social and environmental.
to do so in the context of over-capacity and over-fishing would undermine our determination to achieve sustainable fisheries and our commitment at international level not to subsidise the increase in fleet capacity.
we need not only a commitment that our own capacity is not increased, but we need to decrease capacity to attain sustainable fisheries.
we are, therefore, willing to include funding for the replacement of engines for small-scale vessels, while ensuring that capacity is not increased and stocks are exploited in a sustainable manner.
this could take place in particular in the framework of coastal management plans aimed at the sustainable development of fisheries for the benefit of local communities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the opinion report on the regional development fund, which i presented to the committee on employment and social affairs, was unanimously adopted on three priorities: the achievement of the lisbon objectives, a policy of sustainable full employment and an ambitious policy for people with disabilities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank mr casa for this very important report on the european fisheries fund, a sector which unfortunately is experiencing recurrent crises due to too much pressure on fisheries and the difficulties in organising sustainable fisheries management, which allows us to maintain a living human fabric and activity on our coasts.
we therefore welcome all the measures aimed at improving the selectivity of fishing gear, reducing the environmental impact, supporting micro and small fisheries undertakings and making the policies implemented more transparent.
the funds should be much more focused on human problems: training, technical support, retraining, the role of women, assistance in the event of socioeconomic crises, better knowledge of the environment and ways of preserving and restoring it, etc.
as regards the european fisheries fund, i am pleased to see that a real balance has been struck between environmental concerns and socioeconomic considerations.
equal treatment is an essential condition for achieving the objectives of sustainable economic, social and environmental growth and development set out in the relaunch of the lisbon strategy.
firstly, as regards access to energy resources, oil and minerals, on which we are far too dependent and which have not benefited the development of africa, are we prepared to implement, yes or no, a completely different sustainable, equitable and ecological energy policy?
the debt cancellation must go further, but by introducing a premium for democracy and we must urgently find new sources of financing: taxes on capital movements, on the arms trade, on co2 emissions, whatever, everything has been mentioned.
sustainable development and the precautionary principle, general principles applied to the common fisheries policy, serve only to mask a restrictive policy on fisheries, fishing zones and days and agreements with third countries.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs marie-anne isler béguin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial instrument for the environment (life+) (com (((2004) 0621 c6-0127/2004 2004/0218 ((cod)) (a6-0131/2005)
member of the commission.
mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, in particular the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the rapporteur, mrs isler béguin, for their detailed and constructive report.
life+ is the instrument proposed by the commission to finance the implementation of community environmental policy for the period 2007-2013. in parallel with implementation, the programme provides funds to support better environmental governance and funding for information and communication actions.
the proposal is a positive measure for financing the environment.
this gives member states greater flexibility to meet their most pressing environmental needs.
regional and local actors, who are often on the receiving end of environmental legislation, will thus be able to have a say in the design and implementation of the programme.
however, the commission considers that the main environmental costs could be better financed by financial instruments with high economic power, i.e.
to date, we have had three notable developments in our efforts to secure integration policy: first, the adoption on 21 june of the regulation on rural development; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network for the protection of the environment, and the creation of a european network for the protection of the environment.
the commission is therefore implementing a policy of integration in the field of the environment.
life+ is therefore called upon to complement these programmes by focusing on the development of environmental policy, as parliament has often called for, on supporting the implementation of policy, a point on which parliament has often expressed its interest, on improving environmental governance with the involvement of civil society and on disseminating information so that the european citizen can understand the purpose and impact of environmental legislation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me, as rapporteur, thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety as a whole for the work it has done.
i would like to thank the whole environment committee very sincerely and formally for following my strategy to equip the union with the means to take responsibility for its environmental policies.
i think that together we have succeeded in making it clear beyond our committee that the environment is no longer just a matter of words and that it requires financial resources like all other policies.
it is now hoped that the g8 will also take up its responsibilities with european countries that will press for action on climate change.
and the union, commissioner, must not lose its resolve to protect the environment.
we have been a little worried about this since monday, since the statements by your president, mr barroso, who believes that the environment and the strategies relating to it would be too expensive.
so it is up to us in parliament to convince the council and the commission that, even in times of lean cows, investing in the environment is, in a way, prudently taking out insurance, even life insurance, against threats to the environment.
the environment committee supports life+, but we want to improve it and we have already made that known.
the old life programme, with its nature, environment and third countries components, had provided innovative policy impetus and demonstrated that investing in the environment was the way forward for sustainable development and that it created jobs.
with the new life programme, the commission is focusing on integrating the environment into the various policies, as you have explained.
that is good, we cannot deny it, but we are not convinced of the usefulness of delegating environmental policies to the member states.
it is well known that the environment is often not the main concern of the member states.
so it is not by renationalizing the environment that we will get results.
finally, we believe, and you know this very well, that the great forgotten one is natura 2000. in this connection, we have decided to make everyone aware that natura 2000 does have a cost, but it is not a bottomless pit: it is money that will be used for original local development, based on respect for the environment and respect for the people who work the land.
that is why we propose to take one third of the amount you have decided, that is to say 21 billion, and add it to life+ so that natura 2000 can live and can really serve to protect our environment, just as we have committed to.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs isler béguin, our rapporteur, and all the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the fictitious rapporteurs who have endeavoured to present to our assembly, as my colleague mr gutiérrez has just said, a view, if i may say so, unanimous or at any rate likely to bring together the greatest number.
life+ and the life programme are an extremely important part of our environment policy because it is the only budgetary tool that the european union has set aside for its environment policies.
europe has done a great deal for environmental policies, but we are often told that 'you impose constraints on us, but you do not provide us with much to help us implement the policies concerned'.
i will stress the need to use life to implement the major framework directives such as the one on water, or our programme against the greenhouse effect.
mr president, the life+ environmental programme is indispensable to support the implementation and development of environmental policy.
however, environmental policy is not limited to natura 2000. that is why i am against amendment no 35, which proposes to allocate 90% of the life+ programme to funding natura 2000. life+ must have a proportionate approach to the four key themes of the sixth environment action programme: climate change, biodiversity conservation, environment and health, and the protection of natural resources.
mr president, i think we really need to move from talk to action, because we are constantly talking about the planet we must save, about sustainable development, in this house and elsewhere.
when we have to choose between different priorities, economic priorities and environmental priorities, we know very well that it is the environment that unfortunately suffers and is the victim of these choices.
the commission believes that the current environment programmes have served their purpose.
life-nature and life-environment have been excellent catalysts but, as set out in the mid-term evaluation of the life programme, have done little for the development of environmental policy.
its purpose is to provide funding for policy development, but it would also permit, for example, local and regional actors to spread best practice for dealing with environmental implementation issues.
spending on tangible environmental investment is best integrated into the funds that have financial muscle, those in rural and regional development areas.
the commission is, therefore, delivering on the integration of the environment into other policy areas.
turning to life+ and the proposed amendments, the commission finds it difficult to take into account most of the amendments of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to this proposal.
if parliament were to provide an additional budget of eur 7.35 billion for the environment, the commission would do its utmost to ensure that these funds were properly included in the relevant structural programmes, thereby supporting natura 2000. in its turn, dg environment would do all it could to ensure that such funds were effectively and efficiently spent on natura 2000 matters.
in conclusion, the life+ proposal offers a flexible financial instrument for the environment.
the environment must therefore take its share.
again i have to repeat that, if we had this additional eur 7.35 billion, we would ensure that it would be spent through the relevant funds for natura 2000 and the other environment programmes.
in this context, and in order to remain competitive in this new commercial environment, free access to third country markets constitutes a major and indispensable competitive interest.
how necessary it is to establish an ethical trade based on production that respects the environment, health and labour standards.
i would remind you that the reach directive, which is currently being discussed in parliament, proposes to register, assess and control the use of chemicals which could be harmful to our health and the environment.
these references are therefore totally unacceptable, because we do not believe that the competitiveness of our industry can be indexed on the back of the health, the environment and the working conditions of the employees.
this is all the more unacceptable because in my region, for example nord-pas-de-calais, which is hard hit by restructuring, we are unfortunately very familiar with this kind of discourse, which advocates moderation of environmental demands in order to preserve, so to speak, employment.
this systematically results in social and environmental disaster.
we cannot accept the deregulation of international trade without considering the human, economic and environmental consequences.
the excellent report by mr freitas makes a balanced compromise between the need for reform and the preservation of a system of support for sustainable agriculture on small farms in the ors.
the commission must also make proposals for 2012. of course, we are concerned first and foremost with the lives of people, our firefighters and rescue workers, not to mention the ecological disaster and the need to restore the natural environment.
it generates significant economic activity and has environmental and recreational functions that i will not mention.
it deserves better than a tug-of-war between the environment and agriculture.
it is true that at a time when political europe is being sought, the european citizens are demanding that health security and environmental protection remain a priority for the union.
this directive is justified by the importance of the waste generated by mining operations, which, as we know, produce nearly a third of the waste generated in the union each year, some of which is toxic or very toxic.
if not properly handled and stored, they can pose a serious threat to the environment and to human safety.
the directive should also provide the new countries with the means to eradicate the harmful waste products of past extractions.
the european union must set an example by introducing rules on farms which guarantee the safety of workers and better protection of the environment.
the question of waste contamination has been raised on many occasions, for example during the irish presidency, but still today there is no answer.
the second example concerns the highly controversial project to open a gold mine in romania at rosia montana, which involves the construction of a reservoir for the disposal of highly toxic mining waste with a dam - beware - 30 metres high.
finally, the last example is the destruction of the coral reef in new caledonia, for which we are responsible, by waste from nickel mining.
the latter example, commissioner, illustrates the need to prohibit direct discharges into inland, coastal and maritime waters, unless, of course, it is compatible with the water and waste directives.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
nothing can be truly effective unless the states commit themselves to making the financing of public television sustainable and to justifying the use of the funds before the european union.
the commission has been slow to initiate the import controls necessary to trigger the safeguard clauses provided for in the wto, and has not mobilised to impose minimum social and environmental rules in world trade.
i would also like to draw your attention to the major environmental risk that the draft budget poses to our continent, because the budget of all the agencies is maintained at its previous level, in particular that of the european maritime safety agency which was given, following the disasters of the erika and the prestige, the extremely important task of implementing better monitoring of discharges at sea and chartering pollution control vessels in the event of an accident off our coasts.
i would like to thank and congratulate mrs grossetête, the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, for her work and efforts in completing this report.
and if you add to that climate the manipulation and the enslavement of weak minds, then you have terrorists.
there are increasingly factors affecting tourism, ranging from environmental factors to internal security and transport issues.
i also believe that we have all understood the role that tourism can play in terms of growth, job creation and sustainable development.
secondly, i believe that it is entirely desirable to encourage the development of new forms of sustainable tourism such as agritourism, hiking, cycling, horse riding, etc., and to remove the obstacles faced by certain populations who wish to travel but who have difficulty doing so because of the lack of infrastructure and facilities - mr queiró and mr verheugen have spoken about this.
it is true that at a time when we are making technological discoveries available to everyone, when we are concerned about the distribution of energy and food, it would be high time to consider the establishment of a european bank for health and prevention.
tourism also makes it possible to protect the environment and to conserve the territory better, since it is true that with the creation of world heritage sites we are now considering areas to be protected without sanctifying them in order to allow them to be exploited 'smartly' from the tourist point of view.
this regulation was abolished in 2003 in favour of forest focus, which today has €61 million for environmental protection programmes and only €9 million for firefighting.
however, i would have some reservations about its approach to tourism development, which is too focused on environmental and consumer protection.
the voice of consumers and environmentalists is already being heard in full in the european institutions: consumer protection and environmental protection are the subject of specific titles in the treaties and entire directorates-general of the commission are concerned with these two poles respectively.
but the development of these schools is not intended to build the europe of nations to which we aspire, but to promote european integration; the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
so what is the commission's sustainable development plan for niger?
the food crises in africa - as you know very well - are complex phenomena, the result of many factors, the climate, the demography, the health of the population - just think of the disastrous effects of aids in southern africa, for example, because of the lack of physical resistance - political governance and economic governance.
so, for a harmonious and sustainable development of the european territory, territorial imbalances must be tackled.
there is the ocean, space, but we could also mention the exceptional biodiversity of the outermost regions, their importance for a better understanding of climate phenomena or their contribution in terms of cultural diversity.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that this dual ownership offers a real prospect for the sustainable co-development of these areas, all of which are facing major challenges.
for example, the automotive industry, construction and waste management have already been identified as sectors to be reviewed first.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social, environmental and consumer protection acquis is respected.
this must be done in accordance with criteria to which our fellow citizens are attached: safety, the environment, social and territorial cohesion, public service, and their corollary: harmonized social regulations for the employees concerned.
let me be clear: we really want to strengthen european rail transport, because we want to promote the safest and most energy- and space-efficient transport, and therefore the most sustainable.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr claude turmes on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the share of renewable energy sources in the european union and the proposals for concrete actions [2004/2153 (ini) ] (a6-0227/2005).
these sites suffer from major lead pollution as a result of the activities of the former trepca mining complex and this poses a serious health risk to the inhabitants.
there is a need to create a positive environment in international trade for textiles and clothing after the end of the textile and clothing agreement.
it also provides a predictable and sure trading environment between the eu and china for the textile and clothing sector enabling businesses, including both the manufacturing industry and importers, to plan their investments with more time and to adjust.
the commission, aware of the difficulties that the sector is experiencing, will continue its work in several other trade policy areas to provide the best possible environment for the industry to thrive in the current competitive environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
finally, commissioner, how can we envisage building the future of the european textile industry in a sustainable way, and beyond the 2008 deadline?
the european union should, in the context of the forthcoming wto ministerial meeting in hong kong, support its partners' efforts to combat counterfeiting and piracy of textiles and clothing by effectively implementing the agreement on intellectual property rights, negotiate reciprocal market access by insisting on the removal of technical barriers to trade and ensure that social and environmental standards are applied by all.
but we must act quickly and i suggest a few ideas: allow member states to use a reserve of structural funds to support companies in cash difficulties, to help them innovate, to reconvert; supporting companies to form consortia to become a real business force capable of conquering the chinese market; imposing social and environmental criteria; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
our trade policy vis-à-vis china – the memorandum of understanding and even the agreed minutes – are aimed at establishing a sustainable future for the european textile and clothing industry, which is basically competitive.
however, the real solution is to further strengthen the competitiveness of the european textile industry through research, innovation and investment, but certainly not at the expense of environmental protection and environmental standards.
in the context of the revision of the lisbon strategy, the development of industrial innovation in the environmental sector and energy independence are one of the keys to success in restoring europe to the growth it needs.
the commission could also take a strong initiative in favour of solar energy and how to eliminate all energy waste once and for all... (explanation of vote, abbreviated pursuant to rule 163)
in writing.
this would not only give the european union greater transparency, predictability and sustainability, but also a much greater collective influence on its action.
until now, there has been little or no trade policy, security policy, so-called development policy or environmental policy in relation to africa.
second, strengthen policies that create the economic environment necessary to achieve these objectives.
finally, strengthen policies in areas directly linked to these objectives, such as health, education, employment and the environment.
i would like to mention, commissioner, the question of energy, energy policies, which i think is not sufficiently dealt with in your document.
the resolution on oil dependence adopted by the european parliament at its last session stressed the need for a sustainable energy policy as part of the european union's development aid policy.
so tensions are going to increase and we need new legal and financial tools, a strong strategy at european level to achieve a fair and sustainable management of the oil resource.
then, in 1990, two years later, two documents were published: a green paper on the urban environment and a report on urban neighbourhoods in crisis.
i would also like to highlight, together with my colleagues in the urban intergroup, the creation of the urban housing intergroup in 2005. many articles on urban policy appeared in all the texts on regional funds prepared by the commission in 2004. the uk presidency is planning a meeting on sustainable communities in bristol next december.
isn't that a huge waste?
the general objectives of the future programme have fortunately been adapted to the structure of the companies in the sector and their financing needs as well as to the evolution of technology and the market in a highly competitive environment.
the commission published a very explicit communication to parliament and the council in 1999. i quote: 'the application of mutual recognition is fully in line with the philosophy of the internal market, according to which the rules of the member state of origin normally prevail and the member state of destination may derogate from this rule only under very strict conditions involving imperative requirements of general interest, such as health, consumer protection or the environment.'
the main areas of reform in which progress was needed in terms of the acquis were identified - i am thinking of justice, internal affairs, competition and the environment - and it was also decided at that time that the commission should carry out a monitoring exercise, with the possibility, the hypothesis, of a safeguard clause, which could delay accession by one year.
at the same time, the important efforts to be made are underlined, and even the remaining points of concern: first, high-level corruption - for which clear institutions and total determination are needed - also external borders, which must be secure and controlled, but also human trafficking, the environment, the integration of the roma.
the present government has nevertheless pledged itself against this project, which violates the very concept of sustainable development, a pillar of our european policies.
but romania also has europe's environmental jewel with the danube delta.
the management of the park has so far managed to strike a balance between the various activities of the delta and the protection of this fabulous biodiversity.
the opening of the hunt on 15 september is thus detrimental to the preservation of this natural environment, and this shows that romania is really not on the right track in terms of the environment.
i am, however, in full support of romania's accession to the european union, but i would ask the romanian authorities to take the environment seriously and to make a real commitment to protecting it.
the price of oil, the fight against pollution, road safety, the working conditions of road hauliers, the damage to infrastructure caused by lorries, all these things are now calling for the development of rail freight to be given top priority.
finally, we are keen to help smes by promoting a sustainable financial environment for the smallest structures and ethical financing instruments.
but we must not forget that the new needs of the union are constantly growing: in terms of employment, sustainable development, everything that the lisbon policy implies for research, networks, information for citizens, training, security in all senses of the word, security against terrorism, border security and security, for example, in the current context of avian influenza.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last budget of the outlook, still only 111 billion euros, a paltry sum which does not correspond to the multiplicity of tasks - everyone has said it, catherine guy-quint, helga trüpel - which obviously leads to a waste of energy on the part of the coordinators, for example salvador garriga polledo on the part of president lewandowski and on the part of our rapporteur general, mr giovanni pittella, who has conducted the debate with refined abilities and acute italian subtlety.
i consider that this text pursues the objectives of protecting the environment and harmonizing the regulations for the proper functioning of the internal market.
the use of the article 175 basis alone would have had a negative impact on the functioning of the internal market, without any real environmental justification.
it is not by destroying the social model that we will restore the competitiveness of our economies and create confidence in europe, but by relying on europe's assets, on the quality of its infrastructure, including communications and energy - you mentioned this - on the qualification of its workforce, on better coordinated research centres and universities, on a common industrial policy in the sectors of the future.
when it comes to talking about research and development, energy, training, immigration control, the challenge to democracy, there is nothing new in mr blair's proposals.
as our colleagues have said, i believe we can welcome the outcome of the parliamentary elections in afghanistan on 18 september 2005. although there have been some acts of violence in recent months, especially against candidates and poll workers, the election day was held in a climate of non-violence.
this mission is important, commissioner, because it creates a climate conducive to the development of the country after decades of war.
the climate will also become very difficult for ngos, which are now cooperating with icaf.
caring for these populations means first responding to their concerns and aspirations, that is, our ability to achieve greater social cohesion and sustainable economic development.
this applies to the protection of our environment - we are responsible for our planet - but even more acutely to the question of public services relating to the basic needs of the people, namely education, health, culture, access to water and energy, which the committee on international trade, of which i am a member, proposed and which the committee on foreign affairs did not accept.
we must lay the foundations for a common management of migration flows, through a generous and supportive approach to the question of the movement of people in the mediterranean a 'sustainable development zone' in the mediterranean, with a programme to clean up the mediterranean sea by 2020, with a precise timetable for its implementation.
but who can blame them for fearing for their jobs, their future, their democracy and the environment of the planet on which they live?
that is why it is a priority to integrate high social and environmental standards into trade rules and to ensure that they are respected in the bilateral agreements we sign.
the agenda calls for the oral question to the commission on the digital switchover by giles chichester and etelka barsi-pataky, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0083/2005 - b6-0333/2005).
some examples of what we have achieved together are: the renewal of the lisbon strategy; a revision of the stability and growth pact to strengthen the credibility of europe's economic governance; more solidarity through the adoption of a renewed social agenda; full recognition of the driving role of social dialogue and its actors; the fight for a cleaner environment through the adoption of thematic strategies and the continuation of our international action on climate change; improved security through the implementation of our ambitious hague programme alongside many other initiatives including our proposal on data retention; the promotion of european values in the world; a commitment to support the union's ambitious efforts to open and strengthen a new strategic partnership with our partners and development partners, such as the united states, china and turkey; and further dialogue and partnership with our key strategic partners, such as the united states and croatia.
i also want to talk about solidarity between generations, through good management of natural resources, including marine resources, and the implementation of a new strategy for sustainable development - and we will present this new strategy in december.
the international economy now needs some good news, especially because of the high costs of energy.
we saw an agreement on areas where people want europe to lead: science and innovation, higher education, energy, border management and immigration.
so many of our internal community policies now have an external element: environment, migration, transport, energy and others.
that is why i have announced today that the commission will come forward with a new truly european energy policy in 2006. it is good that at all levels in the european union people now understand that it makes no sense to go it alone when dealing with energy challenges.
even those who were most reluctant now see that this is a european issue and that we face the same challenges, such as rising prices, falling reserves, increasing dependence on a few parts of the world, and also the need to protect our environment.
we need a coherent energy policy for the 21st century, one that looks at all these issues and options in a calm, determined way.
a new consensus is emerging that a powerful, dynamic europe cannot have 25 mini-markets in services or 25 mini-markets in energy, but that a single market also needs a powerful, dynamic political and social europe.
the market alone cannot address concerns such as air safety, global warming or the integration of immigrants.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
in this respect, a more family-friendly environment must be created.
the other aspect is the sustainable management of natural resources, and in particular the impetus given to energy policy.
the proposal for an energy efficiency action plan and the proposal for the draft green paper, which aim to ensure safe, competitive and sustainable sources of energy, are in the right direction.
for example, global warming, which makes sense; when cars and schools burn, there is a problem of warming, and therefore of respecting kyoto.
a final word, mr president barroso, on christmas day in the fifth century a.d., the rhine froze over as a result of climate change.
as regards the sustainable development strategy, mr jonckheer, i would like to say that this is not my poor child, quite the contrary.
when i spoke to our american and other partners in gleneagles on behalf of the european commission about the importance of climate change as a top priority, i was not referring to a poor child.
when we announce a new strategy for sustainable development, which we will present in december, it also shows our commitment to this issue.
when we adopt, as we have just done, a set of thematic strategies for the environment, it shows once again our commitment to the protection of the environment.
moreover, it does not seem to strike the desired balance between the three fundamental principles of health and environmental protection, business competitiveness, innovation and substitution.
mr president, like most of my predecessors, i very much welcome reach, which is intended to ensure that substances used in everyday life are safe for human health and the environment.
we will have succeeded if we adopt a balanced text on thursday which allows companies to maintain their global leadership and which safeguards human health and the environment.
it also must waste no time in getting down to business.
mrs president, there is now almost universal acceptance that climate change is a serious and an urgent problem.
the ipcc predicts that global temperatures may rise by as much as 5.8°c by the year 2100. according to one insurance company, the estimated economic costs of global warming could double to usd 150 billion each year in the next 10 years, hitting insurers with usd 30-40 billion worth of claims.
there is good evidence that the 2003 european heatwave was influenced by global warming and that, as members will recall, resulted in 26 000 premature deaths, as well as costing usd 13.5 billion.
those events and their associated price tags bring very close to home the reality of what unchecked climate change would mean for us.
it is clear that the scale of a climate change problem is enormous and that it is pressing, and that is why the uk decided to make climate change a priority for our presidencies of both the g8 and the eu.
2005 has been a critical year for international climate change policy.
the eu emissions trading scheme is up and running and we are due, at the end of the year, to begin discussions on further action beyond 2012, something to which i will return.
it included agreement from all members, including the united states, on the role of human activity in global warming and on the need for urgent action.
there was also consensus on a package of actions to combat climate change through a diverse range of avenues: energy efficiency, cleaner power generation, research and development, financing of cleaner energy, managing the impacts of climate change, as well as combating illegal logging.
the g8 countries have engaged with the world bank and other development banks to improve the harnessing of funding for clean technology and, crucially, they also agreed to begin a new dialogue between the g8 and other countries with significant energy needs on climate change, clean energy and sustainable development.
the member states of the european union were some of the first in the 1990s to recognise the dangers of global warming, the link to human activity and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
as long ago as 1991 the commission issued the first community strategy aimed at limiting co2 emissions and improving energy efficiency.
so, in 2000 came the launch of the european climate change programme.
today the eu is taking the lead, for example in focusing on emissions from aviation, and we warmly welcome the commission’s recent communication on reducing the climate change impacts of aviation.
its announcement of support for the inclusion of aviation emissions in the eu emissions trading scheme is highly encouraging and we look forward to fostering progress in that area as a priority for our presidency of the european union.
within europe there is a clear recognition of the importance of energy efficiency in meeting the challenge posed by climate change and work is already under way to deliver energy efficiency savings throughout the community.
the energy services directive which we hope to agree by the end of the year is expected to provide a challenging first step, while the commission’s green paper on energy efficiency published at the end of june should set the future blueprint for europe’s energy efficiency strategy to 2020. but despite all this work and effort, it is clear that emissions in the eu are not being reduced as quickly as we want and that urgent action is needed in all sectors, at both national and eu level.
so i applaud the commission’s decision to launch a new phase of the european climate change programme to look at what more can be done.
alongside this, the commission and council are developing an eu medium- and long-term strategy for tackling climate change and will report on progress so far to the december european council.
that is why we put climate change on the agenda of our eu summits with china and india.
these two countries are particularly important partners for the eu in tackling climate change.
both summits included useful bilateral discussions on energy security and efficiency.
a key element of the partnership with china is a new initiative on near-zero emissions for coal, with carbon capture and storage, to address the vital challenge of tackling the increasing greenhouse gas emissions from coal.
in september, for the first time, ministers from the agriculture council met environment ministers to discuss the impacts of climate change on agriculture in the eu.
we also put climate change on the agenda of the energy, transport and competitiveness councils.
all this activity is leading to the first meeting in december of the parties to the kyoto protocol in montreal, where, under the protocol, parties will begin discussions on the next period after 2012. let me make it quite clear that the eu and the uk remain absolutely committed both to the kyoto protocol itself and to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
as our prime minister tony blair said this week at the lord mayor’s banquet in london, the world needs a framework with the necessary targets, sensitively and intelligently applied over the right timeframe, that takes us beyond 2012. perhaps i could ask colleagues to take particular note of the use of the word ‘targets’, because the uk has repeatedly stated that formal agreements with targets are absolutely essential in any international climate change regime, not least because they give incentive and certainty to the business community.
there were times when it looked as though that might never happen, but the eu continued doggedly to work for such an outcome, and now here we are, with the world’s only credible, binding international agreement on controlling greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu set out our negotiating position for montreal at the october environment council.
emissions trading, the cdm and joint implementation are all crucial elements to the protocol and will remain essential in the years to come.
however, it is also quite clear that for a global climate change regime to be truly effective, we need broader participation than the protocol currently offers.
the eu will clearly have to back our political ambition for the montreal conference of the parties with real evidence that we are taking a lead in tackling climate change.
we need to continue to do that and not falter as the environmental stakes get higher.
we need future presidencies – both of the eu and of the g8 – to carry on this work, keeping climate change high on their agendas and tackling the major threats it poses to our economies, our society and our environment.
madam president, i am particularly pleased to have the opportunity to discuss with you the recent developments on climate change and how to strengthen the european union's policy on this matter and to ensure the active involvement of all partners in effective international cooperation in this field.
today's debate is of particular importance in the run-up to the upcoming meeting of the parties in montreal, which will mark the entry into force of the kyoto protocol and the discussions on the post-2012 climate change regime.
although specific weather events cannot be directly linked to climate change, the increasing droughts and floods, as well as more severe and frequent hurricanes or tropical storms, are confirming scientific warnings about climate change.
however, more important than determining whether hurricane katrina or other weather events were caused by human activities is learning from these weather events to win the battle against climate change.
i would like to refer in particular to parliament's resolution on the communication 'combating climate change successfully' and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr wijkman, and the members of the committee on the environment, the committee on development and the committee on industry, research and energy for their valuable and specific suggestions.
the draft resolution stresses that the community strategy to limit climate change must be based on an approach that includes: making use of the key elements of the kyoto protocol; drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union; involving other key countries, such as the united states; developing strategic cooperation with key developing countries; actively promoting research and innovation; and improving energy efficiency in the european union.
i agree with and support this approach, and the initiatives taken by the commission this year in the field of climate change are largely in line with parliament's proposal.
let me make a brief general reference: in october, the commission marked the beginning of a new era in the european climate change agenda with a major conference in brussels attended by the main players in the sector.
the new european climate change programme will provide a new framework for our climate change policy with a purpose and a perspective beyond 2012. we are tackling a number of new issues, such as aviation, and we are also working on new technologies - such as carbon sequestration - which offer opportunities for cost-effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
these include: the working group to review progress to date in implementing climate change policies; the group to investigate carbon capture and storage in geological formations as a climate change mitigation measure; the group to assess the integration of aviation into the community's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme; the group to prepare the review of the community strategy to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from light commercial vehicles; and the group to identify the necessary policy adjustments to be made by the european union.
each of the above groups will identify specific new areas where the european union can step up its action to tackle climate change.
the commission has also adopted, as mrs beckett said, a green paper on energy efficiency.
i would also like to refer to the commission communication entitled 'limiting the impact of aviation on climate change'.
air transport is an increasing contributor to greenhouse gas emissions.
the communication concludes that the best way to reduce these emissions is to integrate the aviation sector into the community's emissions trading scheme.
we are actively engaged in discussions with third countries, seeking their views on the next steps to be taken in future climate negotiations and on the creation of new structures to strengthen our political dialogue and technological cooperation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: in this area we are working closely with the british presidency, which, as mrs beckett said earlier, put climate change very high on the agenda at the gleneagles summit of the eight, and which is continually putting climate change as one of its priorities.
the eu-china partnership agreement on climate change and energy provides the political framework for closer cooperation and dialogue on these issues.
the eu-china partnership has as its main objective the development of advanced, near-zero emission carbon technology based on carbon capture and storage in bioforms.
it also intends to promote other clean energy sources, as well as energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy sources.
the european union-india clean development and climate change initiative provides for various initiatives to develop the dialogue.
it emphasises cooperation on the development and evaluation of clean technologies, the necessary adaptations to global warming and the clean development mechanism of the kyoto protocol.
at the end of this month, in montreal, canada, the two-week united nations climate change conference will begin.
secondly, the intense dialogue that has taken place in recent months has created an important momentum for the montreal conference to start the debate at international level on the shape of the future international regime on climate change.
a small number of countries, led by the united states, remain reluctant to engage in the debate on the future global regime on climate change.
through this dialogue we must find solutions that meet the key elements of the future climate regime as identified in the commission communication earlier this year.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of industrial accidents is a very good one.
in conclusion, in order to achieve a positive outcome of the dialogue, there must continue to be active political interest in the issue of climate change and the european union's leadership role must be strengthened.
we need to show that we can reduce our emissions and that this contributes to our economic growth.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on development i would first like to congratulate our colleague anders wijkman on his excellent report on climate change.
our colleague is right to point out that while global warming is an environmental challenge, it is above all a development challenge.
in fact, we see climate change as a real challenge to civilization.
that is why our committee has stressed that the combined effects of climate change, global demographic change and economic globalisation are ushering in a period of instability unprecedented in human history.
there is concern that global warming will exacerbate the gap between the developed world and the developing world.
unfortunately, it is certain that these countries will be the most affected by the impacts of climate change.
this is why we believe that helping these countries adapt to the impacts of climate change must be a priority in the european union's development aid policy.
as you will have understood, the committee on development believes that the fight against climate change is inseparable from the fight against poverty and the achievement of the millennium development goals.
if today 20% of the world's population consumes 80% of the world's energy, what will happen to air pollution by 2050, even if the energy needs of 9 to 10 billion people have to be met?
mr president, while global warming seems to be a given today, it is still necessary to check the analyses which attribute it almost exclusively to greenhouse gases, which some scientists dispute, because other causes are possible.
however, if the answer is yes, environmentalists should ask themselves whether they have not been excessively aggressive in their fight against all forms of nuclear energy, which, while presenting risks, do not emit any greenhouse gases.
as the wijkman report proposes, alternative energy sources must be encouraged, particularly solar energy and geothermal energy.
but we cannot impose such drastic restrictions on european countries alone when china, the united states and many others are massively increasing their co2 emissions.
as regards the storage of carbon dioxide, let me suggest a natural, efficient and beneficial method, namely reforestation, especially since systematic reforestation could be the subject of a large programme of international cooperation.
this text should be seen as our roadmap for better tackling climate change in the years ahead.
the raw material of our researchers is a resource for the european union which we must exploit to meet the challenge of sustainable development and climate change, not forgetting, of course, our responsibility towards the poorest countries.
mr president, commissioner, minister, a few years ago, when we talked about climate change, some people were smiling with a doubtful air.
biofuel, solar energy, wind energy, hydroelectricity, hydrogen, efforts in energy efficiency, these technologies are there.
our citizens are ready to take their share of responsibility in this energy mastery.
the united states, india and china are already taking initiatives, particularly in the field of nuclear energy.
we cannot do without nuclear energy, which emits no greenhouse gases.
what is europe waiting for to really open a debate on nuclear energy?
when will we see an increase in research budgets to meet the major energy challenges, such as the hydrogen sector?
when will the structural funds and subsidies be given priority over energy efficiency and energy saving?
i am thinking of the urban environment, housing and social housing.
when will environmental taxes be introduced on the transport of goods, especially maritime transport?
when will we have a trade regulation to combat the greenhouse effect?
we must act now to respond to this threat of climate change, certainly one of the most serious in human history.
the climate is changing.
but the fact that these animals have disappeared from these areas is evidence that the climate has changed.
that the earth's axis has an angle of inclination with the plane of the ecliptic that changes over a period of 10,000 years, for example, and that this has an influence on the climate, as milankovitch has shown, does not matter.
whether the great ocean breath, with its immense rivers plunging into the north atlantic and emerging into the pacific, has an influence on climate is of little consequence.
all this would be nice if this post-medieval patchwork did not lead to a change in the economic and social climate which is a regression, a very real one, which we are suffering from.
yes, of course, we need a common energy policy.
these provisions replace outdated legislation that is unsuitable for stimulating innovation and providing adequate protection for citizens in a complex, dangerous and highly evolving environment.
this text, adopted at first reading, is a good basis for work and i welcome it because it is a step forward for health while respecting the environment and at the same time safeguarding the interests of companies in this very important sector of activity.
after the vote in the various committees and after hearing the views of both industry and ngos, the environment committee of the european parliament had defined a balanced framework between the protection of health and the environment and the industrial development of the european union.
i believe that this compromise of the committee on the environment is the position to be defended, and it has been almost unanimously approved by the socialists, the greens, the gue and a large part of the liberals in the committee on the environment.
i wanted to look at this text from the point of view of public health and environmental protection.
the balance that is sought, without any emotional consideration, and the creation of a strong and independent european agency must enable us to achieve these important objectives for our health, our environment and also for our industry.
with reach, in the name of the risk of pollution of waterways we would have malnutrition in europe.
all the sevesos, all the aral seas and all the ecological disasters will not make us forget the miracle of chemistry that every day has embellished every moment of our lives, from new fabrics to new material, from a thousand colors to a thousand perfumes.
we are asking that health, education, audiovisual are clearly excluded from the negotiation, but also that public services such as water and energy are not dismantled or weakened in the framework of the gats negotiations.
finally, our group believes that sensitive issues such as social and environmental issues cannot be excluded from discussions within the wto.
we are in favour of genuine european farming, the right to guaranteed prices, the principle of food sovereignty, and respect for the multifunctional nature of agriculture - social, environmental and territorial.
eight, social and environmental standards.
adopting this regulation today offers us a first concrete solution for thousands of patients awaiting treatment, but let us not forget that we must start looking for sustainable solutions tomorrow to meet the scale of the challenge we face.
the case before the court of justice concerned a directive on environmental protection which included criminal sanctions, and that was the di lello report of the committee on civil liberties.
the consequences of this judgment go far beyond the protection of the environment and are likely to affect all community policies and the fundamental freedoms recognised by the treaty.
you will probably be aware that we have decided to bring an action before the court of justice in connection with the framework decision on marine pollution.
we did so a few days ago because the time-limits for appeal were not yet expired and we thought it appropriate to give an immediate demonstration by challenging the framework decision on marine pollution before the court of justice, considering it one of the matters in which, instead of the framework decision, a directive containing criminal sanctions should have been adopted.
on 23 november it added to environmental criminal law a first list of nine new criminal powers which are outside the jurisdiction of the member states.
this is also a good measure to combat global warming.
the reduced rate vat for energy saving works will benefit both consumers and businesses and represents a potential for non-delocalised jobs.
so in voting for amendment no 3 we are saying that there must be a distinction between commercial services and public services and that public services such as water, sanitation and energy must not be dismantled or weakened, and we are maintaining that education, health and audiovisual must also be exempted.
and it will only weakly defend european interests against dumping of all kinds, piracy and counterfeiting, or the necessary respect of a minimum of social and environmental standards by its competitors.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
this seems to me to be the minimum minimum to be true to environmental ambition and, above all, to the will to promote technological innovation in the european union.
i would draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the definitions adopted by the committee on the environment, which give priority to the physical characteristics of the battery over the nature of its use.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mild climate, the beautiful scenery, the attractive prices and the warm welcome of the people have for years encouraged thousands of europeans to become landlords in the valencia region of spain.
criticism is directed both at the substance - the legal, economic and environmental legitimacy of such a project - and at the form - lack of information, transparency, too short a time limit for appeal and too low a compensation amount.
as regards the facts and community competence, we therefore ask the european commission to continue to ensure that the tendering procedure is respected and to monitor any breaches of the environmental directives.
we call for the environmental issue, which is crucial for europe's future, to be taken into account in all projects.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
it will adopt a similar approach in the negotiations on the financial perspective and parliament will support it in order to give the european union a budgetary framework which will finance the union's competences to develop quality jobs and protect the environment.
(the sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and resumed at 11.15 a.m.)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
we must therefore rise to the challenge - the challenge of globalisation, the challenge of climate change, the energy challenge, the demographic challenge - in order to meet the expectations of the european peoples and to make them understand that europe is not a nebula with which they have nothing to do.
i would like to emphasize the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy concerning enterprises.
you can't accredit 30,000 people and hundreds of journalists without public opinion being concerned about the environment.
social and environmental litigation measures are also included.
the reform will have a very serious social impact on them because of the very special role of sugarcane cultivation: social role, economic role, cultural role, environmental role.
it is therefore our duty to take measures now, as you have just said, madam commissioner, measures applicable as from 2006 and possibly renewable in 2007 to support the initial efforts to restructure the sugar industry or diversify the economy of these countries.
it's an energy from the past, from the '60s!
my report also provides a clear picture of the problems romania faces, particularly in the field of justice and home affairs, with regard to the transparency of the judicial system, the fight against corruption, organised crime, border control, administrative capacity, the recognition or protection of hungarian minorities, and - i will say this again - also in the field of the environment and the implementation of legislation.
there are also worrying delays in the implementation of the acquis communautaire in the fields of agriculture, public procurement and the environment.
fisheries play a part in shaping the quality of life at european level, coastal safety and environmental protection.
worse, this policy has often given the impression of being subject to the law of lobbies, more concerned with cultivating their media image and chasing subsidies than working seriously on environmental protection.
while there is a real problem of financing a fair, sustainable and bold european fisheries policy, let us not forget that one of the threats to resources is pollution caused by maritime transport.
behind this pollution is the flag of convenience system.
so let us put the blame for this permanent ecological disaster on the shoulders of those responsible and we shall have the means to embark on a truly ambitious policy.
finally, the agreement reached between the council and parliament is the result of a disgraceful bargaining process negotiated behind the backs of the european citizens: the council got what it wanted on the cfsp; in return, parliament has preserved its priorities: culture, youth, the environment or federalist propaganda.