i am also very disappointed that, at a time when ordinary people throughout the world are digging deep into their pockets, this week the eu intends to waste millions of euros on celebrating the new constitution.
the commissioner has now been baptised into the hard world of climate change negotiations.
it is not possible to declare with certainty that these floods are an indication of global warming, but extreme weather events have been highlighted as one of the consequences of climate change.
events in carlisle are one reason why it is so important that the eu should continue to lead the world in developing policies to combat the effects of global warming.
the british government has declared in recent weeks that it is determined to ensure that the issue of climate change is high on its agenda when it assumes the presidency, so it is frankly astonishing that the same government is putting at risk the successful launch of the emissions trading scheme, europe's most important measures to reduce emissions of global warming gases.
as things stand, is the uk in the emissions trading scheme or not?
do your legal offices, commissioner, tell you that the uk has a real case, or does final approval of the emissions trading scheme allocations rest with the commission, as the directive says?
do the current position and the delays incurred present real problems for the success of the emissions trading scheme in the long term?
a simplifying treaty could have tackled the real issues: relative economic decline, fraud and waste, and greater involvement of national parliaments in the decision-making processes.
scotland is not independent yet, but the scottish parliament is already the only body responsible for justice, the environment, education, health and many other areas of scottish life.
that is the whole point of agreeing common european legislation in the areas we want it, such as the environment and the common market.
the objectives would be, inter alia, firstly, to establish a sustainable mechanism to prevent children from carrying out all sorts of labour in the agricultural and other sectors.
this is at a time when the eu is seeking to have a very constructive role in ensuring that the withdrawal from gaza takes place in a positive climate, in cooperation with a new, and now democratically-elected, palestinian leadership.
your commitment to a relaunch at this halfway mark will bear fruit if you succeed in completing the single market, in finding more funding for research and in promoting a favourable climate for entrepreneurship.
the priorities paper tries to maintain the essential balance between economic, social and environmental policies.
the waves and quakes were a pervasive example of how our fates are shared with one another in a global theatre of environmental and natural risk.
this is not only because we enjoy the most important global trading relationship, a trading volume of more than eur 1 billion per day, but also because we share a common interest in finding solutions to major issues such as climate change, terrorism, security and peace in the middle east.
debt relief efforts for the least developed countries have been particularly concretized in the high indebted poor countries (hipc) initiative, proposed by the world bank and the imf in 1996 and strengthened in 1999. it is a coordinated approach to bring the debt of the poorest countries down to a sustainable level: public, bilateral and multilateral debt, as well as trade debt.
however, it is now widely recognised that hipc relief will fail to ensure long-term debt sustainability.
the world bank and the imf are developing a new framework for long-term debt sustainability in low-income countries.
it takes into account debt sustainability considerations, allowing the paris club to adopt its response to the financial situation of the debtor country and to make the resolution of crises more orderly, timely and predictable.
in the past, the measure used to calculate whether debt was sustainable was a calculation of debt payment against export income, but the really crucial question is how much of the national budget is being used to repay debt.
the recent eu/us agreement over airbus / boeing should do much to improve the climate of trade talks between the two.
it could help in the fight against international terrorism and could contribute to achieving the millennium development goals of reducing poverty, disease and environmental degradation.
if we want a prosperous europe, a europe of sustainable development, a europe that can fight poverty at home and abroad and a europe able to project its values around the globe, then we must begin by securing a strong and viable economy where businesses and innovation can flourish.
you must deploy all of those tools in a coherent strategy that rewards good governance, punishes tyranny and shows care for the global environment.
we will judge this commission partly on its effectiveness in creating the environment for real reform, its commitment to less and better regulation and its determination to ensure that taxpayers’ money is used efficiently, while fraud and mismanagement are tackled with great vigour.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, i would say that prerequisites for that agenda are a healthy environment and healthy people.
on climate change, we need to recognise that the consequences of global warming are not just creeping up on us, they are exploding in unexpected and devastating ways across our world.
we need the united states as a partner on climate change.
mr president, i warmly welcome mr barroso’s strategic objectives because, for the first time, they set prosperity as the number one goal, the first step towards which is a friendly business environment.
however, i know you will not back down, and hope that you will take forward with the council the task of making the internal market work and of ensuring that internal market rules are enforced properly on the ground so that we can achieve our goals of a better environment and jobs and prosperity for everyone.
the online environment provides an ideal platform for innovative digital content products and services that transcend national boundaries.
as regards another concrete issue, namely climate change, i would like to say to you, mrs beer, who i think will certainly put this question to president bush tomorrow, that one of the issues on our agenda is the possibility of cooperation with the americans, also with post-kyoto in mind.
if it was possible for the commission to take all these decisions unanimously - where there could have been a vote, a difference - if christian democrats, socialists, liberals and independents found a consensus, why can we not achieve this here in the european parliament and unite around an ambitious reform programme for our europe, where social and environmental concerns are present?
(applause) if you look at the list of our objectives, you will find a series of concrete proposals in the social and environmental fields.
we know that today it is impossible to build growth without the environmental dimension.
on the contrary, we believe that the environment contributes to growth and to the increase of europe's competitiveness.
through our social agenda we must continue to fight exclusion and poverty; we must help more people find work in a dynamic and growing economy; and we must change attitudes and behaviour, supporting our goal of sustainable development by taking ambitious action.
outside the union, we must pursue the millennium development goals with renewed energy and imagination.
creating this fresh momentum is a key goal of our ongoing review of sustainable development, ensuring that our internal and external actions are better coordinated.
among other issues, the discussions focused on the fight against poverty, the situation in africa, the role of trade and economic dynamism in spreading prosperity and opportunity, the need for a sustainable path for global development and the challenges of global security.
first, we must act together to solve global problems ranging from poverty and development to climate change.
in that context i want to say that we agree that the world economic forum was a tremendous success, as global representatives from governments, businesses and civil society managed to agree on a coherent set of principles for action: matching global trade with sustainable development.
they will also best produce the economic benefits that we need if we are to reach the lisbon objectives and if we are to pay for our social and environmental ambitions.
– (the speaker spoke irish) natura 2000 is an important step in protecting and developing biodiversity in the nature reserves of the european union.
mr president, i support the concept of integrating care for the environment into other policies such as the structural funds, agricultural funds and so on.
however, anyone who cares for the environment knows that the member states cannot necessarily be trusted to make integration work.
we also need funding via the annual bidding process for the special needs of certain natura 2000 sites, possibly through the establishment of a biodiversity programme within the life+ programme.
it is estimated that eur 500 million is spent each year from rural development funds in support of agri-environment measures for natura 2000 sites.
i welcome your interest in natura 2000 and look forward to working with parliament to ensure its effective implementation as a current central pillar of community biodiversity policy.
the recognition that health is interconnected with our physical and social environment must become a consistent aspect of mainstream policy and debate.
mrs ries is correct in her criticism of the significant gap that exists between the commission's initial health and environment strategy and this action plan.
more action is needed in working with health professionals and ngos to empower communities to play an active part in building a better environment; we need more action on the protection of children, the elderly and other vulnerable groups, from hazardous environments and products; we need more action on removing hazardous chemicals from the market; and we need adequate labelling on the environmental and health implications of products and materials.
if nobody is interested in buying the quotas in the same member state or other member states, the undertaking can apply for conversion aid, which should help to cover the costs of restoring good environmental conditions for the factory site and of redeploying the labour force.
in this connection, the commission needs to underline that the competitiveness of the european sugar industry has to be increased in order to ensure a sustainable, long-term basis for sugar production within the european union.
on your other question concerning bio-ethanol, yesterday i decided to form a core group to discuss the possibilities of growing renewable energy crops in european fields.
first of all, i would like to say that i fully agree with the honourable member that forestry is of vital socioeconomic and environmental importance in the european union, especially in rural areas.
in the meantime, can she give us an assurance that the single farm payments that are going to come about as a result of decoupling, and which we know will have an environmental element, will have a strong tree-planting element as well?
this does not solve the forestry problem, but it would increase the number of trees across the european union and bring the environmental benefits to which she has referred.
as mr piecyk, mr ortuondo larrea, mr papadimoulis and others have said, most oil pollution does not come from the disasters which get the headlines, but from deliberate discharges.
cooperation on european issues to counter criminality or carelessness is important and i yield to no one in my determination to do all that we can to prevent pollution and protect the environment.
some are concerned with border protection and countering illegal immigration; others to counter pollution along the lines we have described.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.– mr president, on behalf of my committee i would like to indicate support for the general aims of this proposal on river information services.
in addition, it is our firm belief that, as our control capabilities are enhanced, so too is the reliability of the data that is available to scientists, thus contributing to sounder scientific advice on which to base our policy for sustainable fisheries.
the environmental crisis in the north sea is man-made.
the commission is thus convinced of the need to promote a global, comprehensive strategy to deal with the problems posed by by-catch and discards, since such an analysis lies at the core of an ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
it is important that an internationally agreed set of principles is established that should not only build on the existing international acquis, but go on to integrate and further develop the ecosystem approach in worldwide fisheries management.
over the past 10 years the eu budget has contributed eur 8 million annually to over 400 research projects aimed at increasing gear selectivity, reducing discards or quantifying the impact of fishing on the environment.
i am supporting this report because of the amendment to paragraph 6 of the original, discussed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i am sure you will agree with me that it would be tragic if africa - which faces a tsunami week in, week out in a less visible way through the ravages of famine, its climate and diseases such as aids - were to lose money as a result of our justified generosity towards the victims of the tsunami.
in return it would receive infrastructure and energy cost benefits under an agreement with the italian government.
mr president, i shall open the discussion on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy.
first, a strong commitment to ensure consistency with the general objectives of the common fisheries policy and promote the sustainability of fishing activities in the long term.
the expected availability of suitable vessels, taking into account the principles of adaptability and sustainability, will allow us to meet only a fraction of the needs with this short-term measure.
on amendment no 16: the regulation already provides in a number of instances for the assurance that fishing activity will be carried out in a sustainable manner.
the proposal has been strongly criticised, as we hear this morning, as being inappropriate because the climate and fishing practices of eu countries vary from those of south-east asia.
we believe that the commission work programme takes forward the lisbon agenda and details some necessary environmental action.
however, i am not convinced that the programme presented to parliament strikes an appropriate balance between being "pro-business" while continuing to promote social inclusion and sustainable development.
economic, social and environmental policy do not appear to be addressed in an integrated way.
i also find it unacceptable that the commission does not foresee any legislative action in the priority area of climate change.
we asked for this matter to be placed on the agenda of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety; it is not on the agenda this week.
i note environmental concerns and i can assure you that in the report we submit to the board of directors on all projects we are asked to finance, there is a section - sometimes very detailed, if the project warrants it - on the environmental impact of the project we are asked to finance.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0012/2005) from the committee on industry, research and energy, on the council common position for adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks (rapporteur: esko seppänen).
the whole point of a coherent energy policy is to develop a package of mutually reinforcing policies that together achieve the three core objectives: competitiveness, sustainable development and security of supply.
my concern is even higher when we look at energy forecasts.
if nothing is done, energy imports by 2030 could amount to 70% of total needs.
however, because of the degree of dependency, the european union has little room for manoeuvre to influence energy supply.
in addition, our own energy sources are either low or, in certain cases, less competitive.
against this backdrop, the european commission has already committed itself to actions designed to diversify the different energy sources, to promote energy efficiency and support renewables.
all those actions point to a reduction in the use of hydrocarbons in our society and a decrease in their share of the energy mix.
i will make a special effort on energy efficiency.
stronger action on energy efficiency will not only benefit our security of supply, but also other key objectives including those linked to the lisbon agenda.
this spring i will present a green paper on energy efficiency to outline my ideas.
although i understand the intention of honourable members to cross-subsidise renewable energy, i am afraid that it will be difficult to judge what ‘windfall’ profits are, or what ‘too much involvement in enterprise policy’ is.
i have also to point out that major oil companies, such as bp, shell, repsol and total, have already started substantial research, development and deployment activities in renewable energies and co2 capture and storage.
in my further contacts with the oil companies active in the european union area i will, therefore, strongly encourage their commitment to research into and development of renewable energies and co2 capture and storage.
moreover, the commission has been actively supporting research into and the demonstration and use of alternative forms of energy.
now i would like to come to the issue of environmental goals and competitiveness.
the european commitments, not least those related to climate change, have been translated into a number of operational targets in energy policy that at the same time promote the competitiveness of our industry.
therefore, the environmental goals are fully integrated into the energy policy objectives and instruments.
i think that the most important direct effect on our economy will, however, come from strong policy action to increase energy efficiency throughout our society.
it is estimated that 20% of our total energy use could be saved in a cost-efficient way.
not only would energy efficiency save money, it will also create jobs in europe and be of benefit to the environment.
it is my conviction that environmental goals, security of supply and competitiveness go very well together.
let market mechanisms be the way to encourage renewable and alternative sources of energy.
we have just over 5 million people and yet, with all our natural assets, the university of scotland has calculated that we could contribute 1% of the world’s renewable energy needs.
green energy is not a loss leader.
we in scotland and in europe need a coherent energy plan.
energy policy has not been sufficiently debated either in this house or in the european union.
i would not like the public to view energy policy purely from the perspective of climate change.
energy policy is so important that it needs to be debated properly.
co2 capture and storage and other new environmental technologies are now on the agenda.
i look forward to working with the european parliament with a view to achieving such energy policy priorities.
we also get letters from people wanting to retire abroad, where the difference in the monies paid makes a considerable difference as to whether they can move to a climate that has a more positive effect on their health and quality of life.
my last point concerns the korean energy development organisation.
i know some in this house would not like to see it refined into a nuclear programme, but it could well serve as a very useful channel for non-nuclear conventional or renewable energies.
that will not allow us to sustain the social model that we have built up, or to have sustainable development, unless we do something dramatic to galvanise economic activity in the union.
for that reason we welcome your reach proposals, for example, or a commitment to bringing aircraft emissions into the emissions trading system.
to improve the economic vitality and the social and environmental health of our continent simultaneously, the lisbon agenda must combine flexibility, fairness and farsightedness.
if we do not complete the internal market, we will never have the basis for creating the jobs, growth, social and environmental policies we all want.
that will only be achieved when we have business-friendly policies and an environment in which people want to go out and start businesses, whether in services or in manufacturing and technical innovation.
however, overall we are struggling to achieve sufficient and sustainable growth to create the jobs europe needs to reduce significantly and sustainably unemployment which remains too high.
what credibility would there be in a european union which decided in march to relaunch research, to step up its actions in favour of competitiveness, to develop policies more compatible with ecological balances and then, just three months later, could not agree on the community financing of its policies for 0.01% of its gnp?
you asked me, mr president, where i was when the global strategy for sustainable development was drawn up in rio in 1992. well, i was in rio.
i was working with the commission and the member states at the time, and europe was leading the debate on sustainable development at the rio conference.
(applause) i would like to thank i say this to show you my personal commitment and the commission's commitment to the objectives of sustainable development.
social cohesion, sustainable development and growth and competitiveness should not be confused.
it is now necessary that the proposals we and the european parliament have put forward are not weakened by the time they are implemented, that the member states can also be involved and that our national public understands that the new lisbon strategy is not a decorative element but that it is truly at the centre of the programmes of economic reform, social cohesion and sustainable development in europe.
this is a gross waste of taxpayers' money!
i fully subscribe to the lisbon goals of strengthening employment, economic reform, enhancing competitiveness, completing the internal market, social cohesion and environmental protection as engines of a sustainable growth-orientated economy.
in order to build a broad coalition for change, the lisbon strategy must be universally understood as a strategy whose benefits will be widely shared and developed in cooperation with all relevant socio-economic actors, which looks for labour markets which promote both dynamism and security, which seeks to modernise, but not to weaken, social security, and which sees high social and environmental standards as part of europe's competitive model.
now, on sustainable development, i can tell mrs isler-béguin that we have put a lot of emphasis on maintaining the environmental dimension in the lisbon strategy, and not just maintaining it but actually integrating it into all policies.
sustainable development is not somehow a small addition to everything else.
it is something that should indeed inspire all policies and all policies should be assessed against a grid of sustainable development.
the strategy of sustainable development is still of great value to us.
we are in favour of a horizontal approach to all environmental policy, as is already provided for in the treaty and the draft constitution.
finally, as regards kyoto, the presidency is extremely committed to developing the post-kyoto era and if there is a sustainable development dimension, i believe it is particularly linked to this aspect: preparing for the post-kyoto era.
we must ensure that the policies on the stability pact, the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy go hand in hand.
climate change is one example, as it is not only an environmental issue but also one with enormous economic and social consequences, meaning that our policies have to be designed accordingly.
this is exactly what incorporating the dimension of sustainable development is all about.
the commission will look into the details of creating a charter for sustainable development, which must include very concrete policies and actions.
indeed, nothing of what has been said about the stability pact, the lisbon strategy or sustainable development will lead anywhere unless we start to take action.
will the council take advantage of this new climate to up the tempo of meetings of the quartet and the road map to peace in the middle east, in order to lend greater impetus to that process?
the commitment made by heads of state and government in gothenburg to halt the decline in the use of biodiversity by 2010 is recognised as a key element of the eu's sustainable development strategy.
nature and biodiversity are included in the main priorities for action.
mainstreaming environmental considerations into all eu policy work is the way forward.
as well as aiming to stop the decline in biodiversity in europe, natura 2000 creates and sustains jobs, supports agriculture, forestry and rural development and provides tourism and educational opportunities.
although we all appreciate that the environment is very important, the livelihood of human beings has to be the priority.
the cap reforms require european farmers to become more competitive and efficient, while maintaining sustainable environment-friendly farming practices.
brazilian expansion would also be at the cost of thousands of acres of rainforest and savannah that contain precious biodiversity and wild life.
if the commissioner's timing can be adhered to and we can adopt our final proposal in november, this would create a very good environment in advance of the december hong kong meeting.
products from outside the united kingdom may be organically produced, though in truth little is known as to whether environmental damage is done in producing some of those goods.
i also welcome the call to increase support for r&d and innovation in renewable energies following the international conference for renewable energies (bonn, june 2004).
we do support the creation of a budget entry sufficient to support life funding for nature protection and biodiversity which we do not feel will be adequately protected or financed under the commission's present plans.
the development, trade, budgets, consumers and the environment committees are all concerned by this complex issue.
we still waste money and this serious control is still not there.
that demonstrates the growing consensus that while trade clearly has a role in poverty eradication, the current trends and institutions of trade policy will need urgent reform if they are genuinely to lead to poverty eradication and sustainable development.
this is a gross waste of public funds.
a little flexibility should now be shown in return, bearing in mind the important contribution bulgaria makes to regional energy needs.
we all know the issues involved: the fight against corruption, independence of the judiciary, the protection of the environment.
the aim of the proposal is to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter.
these emissions are directly linked to the sulphur content of marine fuels, which is currently 2.7% on average or 27 000 parts per million, while road transport fuels - as mrs hassi said earlier - have a new sulphur limit of 10 parts per million.
as shipping is a global industry, it is important that the main points of the proposal are aligned with the internationally agreed rules included in the international maritime organisation convention on air pollution, marpol, annex 6. the progress made at second reading on this proposal is satisfactory and i thank parliament for the constructive role it has played in setting the right direction for agreement.
this is a piece of legislation that will help improve the environment and people’s health.
it is a pity that we are here yet again at 11.45 p.m. discussing important pieces of environmental legislation when the media has gone to bed and nobody is watching us.
there are some good council conclusions, such as on the kyoto protocol and sustainable development, but i am afraid that the heavy-handed tactics of some leaders, trying to put a brake on our economic reform and playing games with an increasingly discredited stability and growth pact, serve as a timely reminder to us all that we could have our interests sacrificed to short-term political interests if we are not vigilant.
this is a gross waste of public funds.
we welcome some aspects of the presidency conclusions, including the commitment to sustainable development and the kyoto protocol and also the motion's strong words against lifting the arms embargo on china.
i can only see a broad consensus on the broad lines of this policy, on all its facets, on the concept that europe must have of security, on the fact that this security is not only security in political and military terms, but a comprehensive security which includes aspects such as the environment or human rights.
question no 2 by robert evans (h-0167/05) subject: wind power, wave and tidal energy bearing in mind the pressure on governments to reduce co2 emissions in accordance with the kyoto protocol, is there not scope for far more renewable energy developments?
what steps are being taken to encourage wind power, wave and tidal energy, and are new initiatives hampered by the power of the oil industry lobby?
in the run-up to the annual spring european council meeting, the council in its environmental group adopted on 10 march 2005 a contribution to the deliberations on the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy.
in general, the council stressed the need to take action as from 2005, in particular to tackle climate change and to promote eco-innovation and the efficient use of energy and resources.
in particular, it called on the spring european council to advocate sustainable consumption and production patterns supported by eco-efficient innovations, with a view to decoupling economic growth from resource use and environmental degradation.
it also called on the commission to draw up a european initiative for energy efficiency in 2005 and a green paper containing a list of relevant measures.
secondly, he called for the vigorous promotion of eco-innovation and eco-technologies in all sectors of the economy, in particular energy and transport.
finally, it recommended mitigation measures to reduce the long-term risks and costs of climate change, leading to a low-carbon economy, including by enhancing the deployment and development of energy-efficient renewable energy technologies and new fuels.
i wonder whether you agree with me, either personally or in your capacity as president-in-office, that if similar investments had been made in alternative energy sources, funded by the oil industry, then we might have made the sort of substantial progress that council is now making.
each country must choose the energy production methods with which it has the most affinity.
i believe you have expressed, as it seems to me, an affinity for a particular energy source.
and, most interestingly, it has offered a suspension of environmental regulations, which will allow the cellophane to be produced cheaply and re-exported back to the european union.
also, while i agree that at the moment the wto rules do not forbid environmental dumping, and while we recognise that different countries may have environmental standards that differ from ours, we object to the suspension of those different standards, something we are increasingly likely to see because of the kyoto agreement.
the letter from commissioner mandelson to mel dando, one of the trade union officers involved, looks at the problems that we have encountered with the policy at the plant in kansas, as regards declaring a tax holiday and suspending environmental regulations.
he then goes on to point out that there are no provisions in the wto agreements that cover environmental dumping and says that, therefore, these measures appear not to be in breach of current wto rules.
my question to the commission will be this: if there are no provisions in the wto agreements that cover environmental dumping, why not?
what is the commission doing to ensure that we have provisions to cover environmental dumping?
author.– mr president, i welcome the opportunity to debate fiscal and environmental dumping with regard to british cellophane in bridgwater.
they voted publicly to give public money to the plant and they have also been given a five-year environmental holiday to further undermine british cellophane’s prospects.
i welcome the aim of these proposals to help reduce waste and provide information for consumers.
however, i have some reservations about the benefits of applying the design standard to existing vehicle types, in which case the economic and administrative burden may outweigh the environmental gain.
first, i would like to say that i am grateful to giovanni berlinguer and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for an excellent opinion.
under this directive there is a requirement to put in place trend reversal measures once pollution levels reach 75 per cent of the decreed quality standard.
as she knows, this idea was rejected in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in favour of the framework approach of the commission on the basis of river-basin management.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0102/2005) from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the council common position for adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning the management of bathing water quality and repealing directive 76/160/eec (rapporteur: jules maaten) (12884/1/2004 - c6-0006/2005 - 2002/0254(cod)).
as the text already deals with pollution resulting from unusual or exceptional events, it is not appropriate to introduce detailed provisions on emergency planning in relation to bathing.
annex - position of the commission recommendation for second reading: maaten (a6-0102/2005) the commission can accept the following amendments in their entirety: 2, 9, 10, 13, 17, 19, 21, 25, 26, 33 and 35. the following amendments are acceptable in part or in principle: 15, 16, 22 and 55. the following amendments are not acceptable: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 14, 18, 20, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 53 and 54.
the next item is the oral question (b6-0237/05) by karl-heinz florenz to the commission, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission’s strategy for the second meeting of the parties to the aarhus convention.
the maritime world and the port environment are not immune to such a threat and we cannot wait for an attack to take essentially preventive measures in the framework of transport policy.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.– madam president, i rise to speak on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy.
what can you do to create a climate of truly reinforced respect for strict data protection observances in this context of a huge pressure to dilute it, as we have just heard with regard to the pnr case?
i think it is important that they have concluded that successful restructuring requires a climate of trust.
that is crude protectionism and seeks to preserve the eu fruit and vegetable market as a cocooned environment, controlled by suffocating bureaucracy which outside competition must never be allowed to penetrate.
the challenge of dealing with a hole in the ozone layer, melting ice caps, rising sea levels and climate change.
acting president of the council the commission's proposals identifying the measures to be taken to accelerate the achievement of the millennium development goals have been on the council's table at working group level since 14 april 2005. the luxembourg presidency intends to do all it can to ensure that the council, at its meeting on 23 and 24 may, will be able to define the broad lines of its renewed commitments, which will be aimed essentially, first, at setting new intermediate targets for the increase of public aid budgets by 2010, both individual and relating to the union as a whole, with a view to achieving an overall effort of 0.7% of gross national income in 2015. secondly, to accelerate reforms to improve the quality of aid; thirdly, to reconsider the way in which the european union, through its own model of sustainable development, through its internal and external policies, can influence the conditions for development.
the commission must certainly seek to recruit the trust of the foreign ministries of the member states, but it also needs to preserve the special prerogatives and experience that it has acquired over decades across the policy spectrum, from development to the environment and, of course, including trade.
while there are some good parts, highlighting the aims of sustainable development and poverty eradication, these are sadly undermined by the overall direction of the report, which is an uncritical endorsement of deregulated free trade as the principal means of achieving those goals.
what we need is not a cosmetic public relations exercise but a fundamental, thoroughgoing reform of the institutions and the rules of world trade so that sustainability and equity are genuinely put at their heart.
the actions we take now and the negotiations we undertake in this round, have to ensure that there is a sustainable future for european agriculture.
we are looking here at a downward spiral of social and environmental standards; certainly minimum international standards might help stem that downward spiral.
russia remains the eu’s strategic energy supplier and giant immediate neighbour, so we must encourage dialogue and shared values and develop the four ‘common spaces’.
leaving aside the monumental waste of public money, it will ensure that human rights become a permanent source of conflict across member states as the bureaucrats seek to keep themselves busy.
my group does not believe that economic growth automatically produces significant employment, nor does it automatically produce sustainable development.
we equally do not accept the inclusion of nuclear energy as part of the kyoto strategy.
if we could just leave business alone to generate wealth, the eu’s many programmes, such as caring for the environment and providing a high level of social security, might actually be affordable.
the scheme has saved many neighbourhoods from the blight of scrapped and burnt-out vehicles littering and polluting the environment, making a real difference to the quality of citizens’ lives.
however, to coincide with world environment day yesterday, the uk government made known that this funding would end in september.
this would not be so bad if our government made manufacturers liable from that date, as it has the possibility to do under the directive, before manufacturers’ liability becomes mandatory in january 2007. the government has not done that, putting corporate profits before a sustainable environment.
through you, therefore, mr president, i appeal to the british government to prolong the funding of ‘operation scrap-it’ to stop an environmental crisis in london.
as the city of strasbourg and the french aviation authorities seem incapable of providing a consistent or reliable service to this great city, and in view of the clear wish of both members of the european parliament and the peoples of europe that we do not waste any more of their money, is it not time seriously to consider once and for all the future of the monthly plenary sessions held in strasbourg?
on behalf of the alde group .– madam president, we need this european directive first and foremost because of what the united kingdom scientific adviser has called the ‘elephant in the living room’; that is, the enormous threat posed by climate change which we largely pretend not to notice, even though it is sitting massively in front of us.
that bear is the threat to our energy supply.
the easiest way to lessen our energy dependency is by using less energy.
this directive will give a clear framework in which companies dealing in energy efficiency can operate and compete.
the incoming united kingdom presidency has declared that tackling climate change will be a top priority.
it would be tragic and hypocritical if a knee-jerk reaction against making anything mandatory at a european level were to be allowed to be jeopardise that commitment on climate change.
i hope that we in the european parliament will send the strongest possible message that mandatory targets on energy saving are necessary.
madam president, i welcome this directive, as it will primarily help energy users to reduce and monitor their electricity consumption.
this measure will require companies to give energy consumers accurate information to allow them to regulate consumption, compare their consumption with a normal user in a similar building and in an ecologically efficient building, and assess the environmental impact of, for example, the co2 emission levels of the energy they consume.
consumers deserve to have full and fair information on their energy use.
the uk gas and energy watchdog, energywatch, does an excellent job in giving information to consumers.
i hope implementation of this directive will be fast-tracked in britain to make it easier for consumers to play their part in reducing energy consumption and tackling climate change.
the directive will require the introduction of smart metering services that allow consumers to check at a glance how much energy they are using and how much it will cost.
the new meters are obviously part of a package of measures that will also force energy companies for the first time to give individual consumers accurate and detailed bills, along with information about the environmental impact of their energy use.
climate change is one of the fundamental challenges facing us today and it is vital that we reduce carbon emissions across europe to help meet this challenge.
this directive will enable people and businesses to assess accurately the environmental and financial impacts of their energy consumption and make informed choices on how to reduce such impacts.
i welcome the commission’s proposals that aim to enhance the environment and the countryside through support for land management.
it is vital that such funds are used to meet the objectives of improving the quality of life of our family farming communities and the protection of our rural environment.
(applause)
mr president, i want to speak specifically about the oral question from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which concerns bioterrorism.
we should support rural development; we should compensate farmers to ensure that environmental concerns are addressed.
more specifically, detection techniques of hearing impairment, notably in the new-born and children, were supported in the context of the successive ahead projects coordinated by professor grandori, in milan, based on the technique of otoacoustic emissions.
it is very important at the moment that there should be no delay in driving forward the lisbon agenda, the current liberalisation policies or the sustainable development arguments.
particularly in the current climate, after the french and the dutch votes, people often see the council and the commission – the commission in particular – as aloof from parliament, the only democratically elected body that represents the electorate.
the aim is to reach zero levels through the setting of annual limits and the long-term sustainability of tuna stock in the agreement area.
i also welcome the fact that the wwf and greenpeace are supporting and promoting the agreement on the international dolphin conservation programme because it is a legally binding instrument that consolidates the results of an effort of interested governments, the tuna industry and the environmental community that, in less than 20 years, has led to a dramatic reduction of the mortality of dolphins in the eastern pacific ocean.
the international fishing community has now woken up to the fact that consumers will not accept unnecessary deaths or damage to our environment in the food and fisheries industries.
not only is it hugely wasteful, it is also damaging the ecosystem.
ensuring economic and employment growth will certainly help to increase social cohesion, but investing in social inclusion and human capacity is an essential complementary element in supporting sustainable employment and economic progress.
it suffers from terrible ecological problems in the caspian sea as a result of ddt and toxic defoliants used in cotton farming.
it enjoys close military and political links with turkey, and the eu has strong interests in securing the energy corridor that supplies western countries with its oil and gas, and also maintaining azeri cooperation in the fight against international terrorism in the face of recent allegations from russian sources that azerbaijan has supported chechen separatists.
how can we tolerate a system that sees the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, sitting in session here in brussels, demanding quite correctly ever more draconian regulations on the sale and marketing of tobacco products that kill half a million of our citizens every year, while across the corridor the committee on agriculture and rural development is happily voting for an annual subsidy to europe’s tobacco farmers of more than eur 1 billion?
this is what has been decided, a reflection, not in a closed circle, in a closed environment, but a reflection-debate, a reflection-dialogue with the citizens on the path of european integration that we must pursue.
it is also about quality of life and they expect the european union to deliver and to establish policies which affect their quality of life, the environment and all the other issues that are so important for our everyday lives.
and if there is a query about implementation it should be prepared, given the current political climate in europe, to give unequivocal answers.
surely, again in the current political climate, we have a duty to our citizens to get to the bottom of what happens in cases like this and to give them satisfactory answers.
the three biggest challenges we face – third world misery and the migration it generates, climate change, internationally organised crime – all require supranational responses.
we are actually killing hundreds and hundreds of local fishermen every year and what we are doing to the seas off africa is the environmental equivalent to setting fire to the serengeti.
the presidency has to bring member states together to build a competitive europe and a europe capable of giving leadership in the world on issues such as security, climate change and world poverty, the very issues that our citizens are concerned about.
mr president, in the past mr blair has said that climate change is the biggest threat that we face.
yet, mr blair, we have had just half a sentence on climate change from you in your speech here today.
moreover, yours is a government under which greenhouse gas emissions have actually risen.
yours is a government which has attempted to increase the volume of emissions allowable to british industry under the eu emissions trading scheme.
that is hardly a very good start for someone who is pledging to show international leadership on the issue of climate change.
first, to promote mandatory targets for energy efficiency across the european union.
second, to adopt targets for renewables which are consistent with a reduction of between 30 to 40 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. third, to rule out nuclear power as any kind of so-called solution to reducing co2 emissions.
when you lecture the rest of europe about the merits of modernisation, competition and flexibility, yet leave out any reference at all to sustainability: it completely undermines any claims you make to be committed to sustainable development.
yes, europe must change as you say, but unless that change puts sustainability at its heart then your presidency will lose a vital opportunity to help the european union regain public support and it will squander a key moment to address climate change seriously.
our rebate will never be given up until the cap is radically reformed, with the funds freed up, used to address modern priorities like research and development, combating climate change and external action funding to stabilise the western balkans, help eastern european countries like ukraine and fledgling democracies in the middle east such as iraq.
today the issue i am concentrating on is being discussed at the g8 summit: the greenhouse gas emissions allowance trading scheme directive, which should have been implemented by the end of 2003. estonia, italy, hungary, poland, slovenia and sweden have yet to notify the commission of their legislation implementing this directive.
these men have legitimate concerns and we should share those concerns on environmental grounds.
we see multinational companies with no regard for local communities or the environment and a compliant government that allows these potential hazards to communities.
we are in a particular environment, the european environment, and we have the single currency for 12 sovereign countries.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the council common position for adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending for the twenty-second time council directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (phthalates in toys and childcare articles) (5467/1/2005 – c6-0092/2005 – 1999/0238(cod)) (rapporteur: antonios trakatellis) (a6-0196/2005).
in response to mrs mcavan, the commission is aware of the recent study she mentioned, published by the united states national institute of environmental health science on 8 june 2005. we have, therefore, requested the opinion of the newly established scientific committee on emerging and newly-identified health risks.
the next item is the report by riitta myller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on stimulating technologies for sustainable development: an environmental technologies action plan for the european union (2004/2131(ini)) (a6-0141/2005).
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the newspapers today are full, once again, of stories about the need to reduce burdensome regulation upon industry, but there is at least one sector that not only welcomes new regulations, but thrives upon them: environmental technology is promoted and advanced as a result of regulatory requirements demanding improvements in current performance.
indeed, if we listen to president bush, the world will only be spared the consequences of climate change if such investment is stimulated.
in preparing its proposals, the commission is now committed to making impact assessments, but the environmental industries do not believe that these properly take account of the real stimulus to innovation derived from setting high environmental standards.
development of the wider use of environmental technologies is not only a task for technology developers but also requires the full involvement of all eu companies and citizens concerned.
before i say a few words about funding and investment, i would like to say that i fully agree with mr davies regarding the importance of impact assessments, extended correct state-of-the-art impact assessments for environmental technologies and for environmental policies in general.
regarding funding, as with many technologies, the development of environmental technologies requires substantial investment.
this is why the european investment bank is involved in implementing the action plan and has urgently developed facilities such as its support for low carbon investments related to the european union emission-trading scheme.
other community programmes also have a role to play in support of investments in environmental technologies and eco-innovation.
i would call on member states and their regional governments to seize the opportunity and include eco-innovation in their programming in order to maximise the synergies between environment protection and economic development.
the next item is the commission statement on thematic strategies on air pollution.
mr president, i consider it very important that i have the opportunity to inform you of the thematic strategy on air pollution.
this thematic strategy is the first in a series of seven strategies which represent a new way of developing a coordinated environmental policy.
air pollution is known to have very harmful effects on human health: respiratory problems, bronchitis, lung cancer and premature mortality in both young and old.
today, some 350,000 premature deaths are linked to air pollution each year.
even when current policies and legislation are fully implemented, we will still have over 270,000 premature deaths in 2020. air pollution has adverse effects on the environment and ecosystems.
in short, the damage to health and the environment is so great - over 200 billion euros a year in health effects alone - that we must step up our action.
we must bear in mind that well-planned environmental policies can make a positive contribution to competitiveness and the creation of high-quality jobs.
air pollution has significant negative economic effects.
the agricultural sector is losing 2.5 billion a year from ozone damage.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in addition, european citizens themselves consider that community action in the field of the environment is more effective: it provides, it creates added value.
such action on atmospheric air will have immediate benefits for european citizens.
i look forward to your support in this new stage of environmental policy that is beginning and i hope to be able to present the strategy on air pollution soon.
under the sixth environmental action programme, all thematic strategies were supposed to come to the european parliament and council within three years.
in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety we were given a splendid outline on 21 june of which strategies would be coming in which months, all of them by 5 december: one in december, two in november, one in september, two in july, three in june.
five – on air, waste, sustainable use of resources, marine and aviation – would be with us before the summer.
then we were told that we would be starting with air pollution and the marine environment by july.
then dg environment confirmed that there had been no withdrawal, but that there was to be an orientation debate.
the commissioner has rightly drawn attention to the problem of air pollution.
there are some 370 000 premature and preventable deaths a year from outdoor and indoor, industrial, traffic, farming and dust pollution.
as mr bowis says, thematic strategies 6 and 7 are provided for in the sixth environmental action programme.
with continued cooperation between parliament and the commission, we will be able to provide the european union with an effective and efficient way of addressing the impact of air pollution on human health and the environment.
given the scale of the health and the environmental problems caused by air pollution, i expect that decision to be reached soon.
i fully agree that the effects of air pollution are serious and the strategy must ensure further substantial improvements.
we know that environmental policies can promote competitiveness and create high-quality jobs.
interestingly, the countries that have come closest to meeting the lisbon targets are those with the most ambitious environmental policies.
moreover, our competitors in china, india, korea, the united states and japan are also taking serious action on air pollution.
the next item is the report by giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning measures to safeguard security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment (com(2003)0740 – c5-0643/2003 – 2003/0301(cod)) (a6-0099/2005).
i wish to thank the rapporteur and the committee on industry, research and energy for their commitment to security of supply and infrastructure.
i wish to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy for their cooperation in the work on this report and on this proposal, which has enabled us to come before parliament with a clear and united position.
it is not possible to underestimate the importance of energy in general and electricity in particular to our way of life, to our quality of life and to our standard of living.
if it does not, then perhaps we will need to find other methods to strengthen inter-connection capacity, because it is the link in the european energy supply.
it definitely decreases the risks of such a blackout and strengthens the role that the energy sector plays in the well-being of european citizens.
a legal framework ensuring patent protection in this area is of key importance in enabling european industries, including small and medium-sized enterprises, to be competitive in a high-tech environment.
we have no desire to be part of the single currency but neither do we have any wish to for the project to fail, as we hope to see a strong european economy with a stable currency that provides a good trading environment for british industry.
i welcome this report on the communication from the commission on stimulating technologies for sustainable development - an environmental technologies action plan for the eu.
i see it as a useful basis for discussion and development of more concrete proposals on how to boost environmental technologies but would like to see more emphasis on the development of the demand for such technologies.
i would like to seem a more systems-based approach to environmental policy using "life-cycle" thinking where great importance is attached to the innovation and development of environmentally benign technologies.
i firmly believe that environmental technologies properly resourced and encouraged have great employment and growth potential.
this in turn leads to duplication, waste and lost opportunities.
i am particularly pleased with the report's emphasis on social inclusion and sustainable development.
yet we did not qualify for environment and road infrastructure assistance under the cohesion fund because of the national criteria.
i speak specifically, however, of the casa report; here we wish to introduce references to an ecosystem-based approach to management, to regional advisory councils and to improved disclosure on financial control structures.
i welcome parliament’s position on regional policy per se, but i also believe that we must have sustainable development.
i welcome the review of the common fisheries policy as giving a sustainable framework for fisheries.
i welcome the focus on sustainability within the commission’s eff proposals.
sustainability is the key to future prosperity and development in the fisheries sector.
fleet renewal needs to take place, but i want that to happen on a sustainable basis.
there has been a great deal of talk about energy and trade.
i believe that, in order to restore the possibility for iraqis to develop themselves, there has to be capacity-building with the ministries of trade and energy.
at the moment they only have electricity for a few hours per day, in a climate where temperatures reach 50 degrees centigrade.
starting with the comoros deal, renewable in september, will you in the british presidency please stop these appalling fisheries deals and do something to really help africa?
those are the challenges, and the answers are capacity-building aid, untied aid, micro-credit schemes to build economies from the bottom upwards; avoiding putting money into the pockets of corrupt officials and politicians; avoiding making aid millionaires; helping to end tyrannies in countries like zimbabwe; avoiding waste on consultancies and top-heavy charities; cutting subsidies in europe and removing the obstacles to trade from developing countries.
one of the objectives of directive 2002/95/ec is to contribute to the protection of human health and the environmentally sound recovery and disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
i believe it is essential that we have a better understanding of the amounts of polluting substances omitted by installations and for this information to be made easily available to the public by requiring operators to report their emissions.
the inclusion of ‘statistical effect’, the recognition of natural effect regions, the rejection of the 150 km limit for defining maritime regions, the emphasis on equality issues and the strengthening of environmental concerns should all be welcomed.
i strongly welcome the adoption of my key amendments to the erdf regulation, which will ensure full access to the funds, without discrimination, and will also seek to use the fund to tackle the particular social, economic and environmental problems faced by predominantly rural areas, such as my own constituency, particularly through diversification measures, entrepreneurship and through stimulating local employment.
i also welcome the adoption of my amendments to mitigate the environmental impact of business and domestic activity, and prioritise climate change, biodiversity, environmental management, and sustainable energy production in the use of funding - growth areas of massive potential in the east of england
in writing.
i strongly welcome a majority of the amendments adopted to the esf regulation, aimed at using esf funding to reinforce social inclusion and sustainable inclusion in the labour market.
if the european parliament is serious about sustainability then it is a sad day that so many have backed this report.
there is an opportunity, as the g8 begins its deliberations today in scotland, to make real progress on africa and climate change.
how can you ensure that there will be no be duplication and therefore no waste of eu taxpayers’ money?
the gleneagles g8 summit, taking place in scotland this week, will focus on two key issues: africa and climate change.
climate change is our additional priority, because it is clear that our world is warming up.
major irreversible change in our climate is a real threat and the most important issue we face in the long term.
those are the lengths that illegal loggers will go to for criminal gain at the expense of the environment, local communities and even human life.
in europe we have lost most of our ancient forests and woodlands, to the detriment of our environment and our native species.
this is a very important issue in terms of both development and the environment.
we need something that is an environmental measure, using the proper environmental parts of the treaty.
i hope that you will bring forward proper legislation under the environmental heading and tackle this very important development issue, which is vital if we are ever to make poverty history.
mr president, the g8 leaders in scotland are exercised about the sustainability of our world.
life iii, with its three components of nature, environment and third countries, has been a success in all respects, but particularly perhaps in the natura 2000 sites of life nature.
now, part of the solution undoubtedly lies in pressure on china to meet social and environmental standards, so that its competitive advantage is not based on the appalling exploitation of workers or the environment.
life+ is the key instrument for the development, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and communication of community environmental policy and legislation.
it will notably support the implementation of the 6th environment action programme.
then came the sanctions, which again created an extremely difficult climate.
but the council should understand that parliament must insist that reasonable steps are taken to ensure that the natural environment is properly protected from commercial interests otherwise tempted to think only of short-term gain.
a case in point is the situation in tynagh mines in co. galway in the west of ireland, which, since its closure in 1981, has continued to be an environmental hazard.
throughout the european union, hundreds of millions of tons of waste are generated by mining and many sites left in a condition which poses grave dangers.
it is important, therefore, to deal not only with waste generated following such a directive but also to deal with historical waste arising from facilities that have been abandoned or which were not shut down properly.
mr president, ´one size fits all´ is one of the curses of eu legislation and, if the committee on the environment, public health and food safety gets its way, we will have under this directive another classic illustration of it in action.
although not all extractive industries have the same environmental and safety impact, if the committee on the environment succeeds, then this legislation will make them all needlessly subject to the same restraint.
there is no sound reason why the shallow sand quarry should be subjected to the same legislative demands as the large, deep mine producing hazardous waste.
the requirements for non-hazardous or inert waste should remain proportional and not, as proposed by the committee, be largely subjected to the same stringency as category a hazardous-waste sites.
the framework directive on waste and the landfill directive make adequate provision for non-hazardous waste quarries.
i have no objection when we are talking about hazardous waste, because that always has to be controlled.
i come from northern ireland, part of the united kingdom, and across the border, in the republic of ireland, the waste oil directive is interpreted differently.
waste oil is considered hazardous in the united kingdom, whereas in the republic of ireland it is not.
i recently moved to the committee on industry, research and energy and i have also served for many years on the committee on transport and tourism.
the 1992 directive on construction sites certainly goes further and specifically mentions environmental considerations.
with dwindling fish stocks the collection of accurate data is critical if we are to have a sustainable common fisheries policy (cfp).
i welcome this report which is designed to ensure that we have legislation in place that covers mining waste.
mining waste is currently covered by general waste directives, but some serious incidents involving quarrying and mine waste led to the council to ask for a specific directive on mining waste.
the only controversial issue is whether a new category of waste for this directive - non inert, non-hazardous waste, for example, chalk and lime would be created.
as the budget spokesman for the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, i asked the commission how much we currently spend on aid for trade, and it took them two weeks to work it out, because it is currently spread over around 120 different budget lines.
any of these measures in themselves may be justifiable but, in a climate of fear without proper democratic oversight and control, they foster insecurity.
there is after all a marked difference in the climate between scotland and greece for example and therefore health advice would be best tailored to suit local circumstances.
i rise briefly to offer you some scottish experience, particularly in relation to paragraph 36 on the need for eco-labelling in sustainable tourism.
it promotes sustainability, provides practical advice to businesses and provides a level playing field, a certification to ensure consistent quality among its 500 member businesses, all of which are good-quality tourist attractions.
a tourist industry focused on sustainability will focus automatically on quality, which is ultimately what the consumer in this modern age demands.
with that in mind, the telecommunications and energy council, meeting in december, will discuss commission implementation reports in these relevant sectors.
category i status also covers children of the staff of the uk atomic energy authority seconded to the joint european tourist projects in culham, near oxford, and children of staff covered by the service regulations of the european patent office in munich.
the uk atomic energy authority is most certainly not a community institution and, furthermore, the joint european tourism project involves one eu pre-accession state, romania, and one completely non-eu state, switzerland.
this fragile area of our world gives us the opportunity to cooperate with many partners and even to have dialogue with the us on climate change.
the scottish parliament has complete competence in areas like fisheries, the environment and several other areas relevant to the northern dimension.
however, they have at the same time been oppressing their own people, which is why i have reservations about paragraphs 24 and 25. we in the socialist group strongly support moves to develop tourism, particularly eco-tourism, sustainable tourism, and we welcome what the commissioner said.
in some cases – and here i disagree with mr cornillet – it can damage the environment, using scarce resources too much.
we need to have a proper regulatory framework that ensures that there are no corrupt practices and that there is no property speculation or environmental damage, and it should not be beyond the wit of us as donors to ensure that host countries do not suffer in any way from the development of tourism.
in developing this issue, however, the commission should bear in mind the principles of yesterday's sustainable tourism debate.
the sustainable tourism report was excellent.
i suggest that one of the most useful things that we and the commission can do to take this forward is to focus on sustainability and perhaps even the production of a code of best practice that companies can aspire to.
the widespread fires and floods experienced this summer in europe further emphasise the need to take seriously a global strategy on climate change.
finally, we in europe are making the long-term problem worse because of our failure to take strong enough action on climate change.
next time we are discussing measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, let us remember marginal lands and famine in africa.
nevertheless, given the fast changing international climate, the need for some flexibility to be retained at the national level in the listing of 'safe third countries' leads me to abstain on aspects of this report.
the report called for support for the outermost regions and for areas that are important to their development: agriculture, fisheries, competition and state aids, enterprise policies, services of general interest and services of general economic interest, taxation, customs measures, environment, energy, research, technological development, vocational training, transport, trans-european networks, new information and communication technologies.
i'm going to repeat something i've said many times in your presence: the balance between growth and employment, social cohesion and sustainable development is the european model in its own right.
we feel that for environmental reasons, but also for reasons of energy saving, for reasons of the risk of congestion on our motorways and roads in europe, we must encourage this modal shift, or more precisely this combination between the different modes of transport, given that rail, inland waterways and maritime transport are undoubtedly interesting solutions for longer distance traffic.
in 2003, oil products comprised 43% of total energy consumption in the european union.
both oil producing and oil consuming nations have shared interests and responsibilities in delivering more stable oil prices that enable sustainable economic growth.
a climate more conducive to investment, with open markets, transparent business practices and stable regulatory frameworks, is required throughout the international oil sector.
energy conservation and efficiency, and technology and innovation are also important and have a role to play.
at gleneagles, g8 heads of government published a plan of action on these issues in addressing climate change, but progress in these areas can also do much to enhance energy security.
ultimately, market mechanisms will ration the remaining supplies of oil and provide an incentive for a shift to alternative sources of energy, but appropriate action can be taken in support of that and to promote energy efficiency.
energy efficiency is rightly at the top of the european union energy policy agenda at present.
improving energy efficiency within the european union is the most cost-effective means of simultaneously reducing energy demand – to promote security of supply and improve the competitiveness of european business – and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
much has already been achieved by the european union, it is right to acknowledge that in this sphere, with a range of regulatory and voluntary measures now in place, but it is clear that whilst significant potential for further improvements in energy efficiency remains, there are also barriers to now realising that potential.
that is why member states have welcomed the high priority that commissioner piebalgs has attached to making further progress and the recent publication of the green paper on energy efficiency, entitled 'doing more with less'.
that green paper is currently stimulating considerable and – i would suggest – welcome discussion and debate as to how barriers can be overcome in order to deliver significant energy savings by 2020. it is also why the united kingdom presidency will strive to secure a second reading agreement between council and parliament on the energy end-use efficiency directive, which will set a framework and targets for energy efficiency savings in the european union over the coming years.
the european union has introduced the biofuels directive to encourage the development of alternative renewable fuels for transport.
the european union now has a formal dialogue with opec, enabling an exchange of views on energy issues of common interest.
these were: oil market developments, in both the short and medium-to-long terms; energy policies; energy technologies; and energy-related multilateral issues.
the energy dialogue with russia is a good example of effective cooperation between the european union and the russian federation on an issue of great importance to their overall relationship.
the basic idea behind the dialogue is a simple balancing of interests: russia requires european investment to develop its energy resources, whilst europe needs secure, long-term access to russian oil and gas.
whilst given their rapidly growing need for oil and gas supplies to fuel growth, it is crucial for the european union, in achieving both its energy security and climate change objectives, that we engage in constructive dialogue and practical cooperation with the emerging economies of both china and india.
the international energy agency called on its member states to release 2 million barrels of oil a day over 30 days.
although it is many years since the international energy agency’s response measures have been tested, the organisation was able very quickly to reach a view that the disruption to the world markets was large enough to justify releasing stocks, and to reach agreement with its member states that stocks should be released.
given the current climate, this debate is extremely timely.
our first action must be to save energy and to reduce demand.
the commission has already adopted a green paper on energy efficiency in june 2005, which identifies the potential for europe to save as much as 20% of its existing energy use in a cost-effective manner.
existing legislation, when fully implemented, could achieve some 10% energy savings.
the commission is therefore taking measures to accelerate a european action plan on energy efficiency which will follow up the green paper with a series of concrete measures to achieve the 20% potential; increasing pressure for the full and rapid implementation of the new buildings directive, and pushing strongly for an agreement on the proposal for an energy services directive.
however, for europe alone to save energy will not provide an answer.
the real challenge is to use the good example developed in europe to push for energy policies abroad that also focus on constraining demand rather than simply increasing the supply of oil and gas.
in this context, the european example can illustrate how increased energy efficiency can reduce production costs.
i am making this my priority in my bilateral contacts with other major energy-consuming nations and through the international energy agency.
our second action must be to increase europe's use of alternative forms of energy.
the most logical response to high oil prices is to switch to using alternative, competitive and, wherever possible, more environmentally friendly energy sources.
for instance, the energy potential of biomass in the eu needs to be developed.
we should also boost research on wind, wave and solar energy, hydrogen – in particular with respect to transport – and on clean coal and carbon sequestration, and i shall be arguing for proper funding of this in the seventh framework programme.
finally, before the end of 2005, the commission will present a communication on financial support schemes for renewable energy sources.
furthermore, we should work actively to build global alliances to explore more viable use of renewable energy sources, especially in the developing world.
the commission will pursue several actions to address this situation, such as accelerating the creation of a european energy market observation system within the commission.
the aim of this observation system would be to provide reliable information to facilitate investments of private operators in the energy sector, as well as to improve decision-taking by policy makers.
in this respect, let me inform you that opec has committed to help to stabilise the international oil market and to contribute to bringing oil prices back to sustainable levels.
a 'china-eu action plan on energy efficiency and renewable energies' has recently been set up.
in this context, the commission has supported the proposal of the international energy agency on 2 september for increasing oil supply by 2 million barrels per day over a period of 30 days.
while most of this international collective effort will initially consist of releasing security oil stocks in the international market, the commission strongly advocates encouraging energy-saving behaviour, which may lead, if needed, to the use of demand restriction measures by member states if further actions are required.
europe needs to play its own role, as not all eu member states are members of the international energy agency.
i am determined, therefore, to use the balanced energy policy model developed in europe as a model for more international change, and to demonstrate our commitment to helping vulnerable populations both in the eu and in developing countries.
the simple fact is that we have to cut oil consumption: really cut it, not just talk about cutting it, and we have talked about it a great deal in the context of curbing co2 emissions.
it is welcome news indeed that the uk presidency is committed to getting an agreement before the end of december on the energy efficiency and energy services directive, but will the minister assure us today that this will be a directive with big teeth; one which makes serious, binding commitments on energy reduction; one which sets a framework for energy efficiency and stimulates a rapid growth in energy efficiency services across europe?
i hope that these will be coming not just from the energy commissioner, who we know is deeply committed to promoting energy saving and renewables.
i am afraid oil demand will not go down unless there is more concrete structural action on both renewables and energy efficiency.
whilst we recognise that not all member states have implemented eu waste legislation fully, in general i would suggest that implementation of european union environmental law has actually improved in recent years.
there is absolutely no question if you look at every independent report that in environmental terms these fisheries deals off the west coast of africa are the environmental equivalent of setting fire to the serengeti!
as well as demanding a complete reassessment of the trade model, it is clear that we also urgently need to redouble our efforts to ensure that international trade is based on a platform of minimum social and environmental standards.
it is clear, unfortunately, that china's competitiveness is built, at least in part, on its exploitation of its workers and on its externalisation of social and environmental costs.
it also looks at the environmental impact of the development model which we in the west have also followed.
china is already the world's second largest consumer of oil and water and trails only the us in co2 emissions.
there are environmental problems in china, of course, and these should be addressed.
we cannot expect china to voluntarily restrict its use of energy below levels that we see in the european union.
conservatives are longstanding supporters of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and energy conservation as important components of the energy mix.
conservatives strongly support positive action on climate change and this is why we proposed an ambitious but realistic target of 60% of electricity in the eu from ultra-low or non-co2 emitting and co2 neutral energy technologies.
as conservatives we firmly believe in a realistic approach to energy policies and oppose adopting mandatory targets which have never been achieved in the eu up to now and therefore make little sense
in writing.
sustainable economic, social and political development in africa is a common concern, essential to europe’s future.
such a solution would help create the climate for a better relationship with europe and with the wider international community.
some of the worst deprivation, the most severe needs and the biggest environmental challenges are indeed found in our towns and cities.
i can and do argue to my eight million constituents in london – a figure, incidentally, which makes us a city state larger than 11 member states but without the equivalent representation – that they should pay for sustainable rural development.
these issues should be resolved by sensible negotiation between national government and fishermen, not by an unelected bureaucracy with an absolutely appalling track record for environmental vandalism.
by highlighting these challenges meps have voted for a constructive dialogue with the chinese in which broader questions of the social and environmental impact of rapid economic growth are taken into account.
mr president, i would like to bring to the attention of the house the problems faced by the rendering industry in the united kingdom as a result of european union legislation setting standards for incineration plants in the united kingdom, namely the waste incineration directive, which is now due to be implemented by the end of this year.
the tallow that is being designated as a waste in these three member states will not be considered a waste in the other member states.
for example, waste should only be shipped where truly necessary and unfortunately the proposed regulation is not as strong as it should be on this.
the regulation implementing the stockholm convention does not deal with a shipment of pops as or contained in waste, so the waste shipment regulation urgently needs to do so.
this would help to avoid shipments of pops in waste from countries that could and should deal with the waste themselves.
waste, and particularly hazardous waste, should only be transported where there is no alternative; the legislation has to be effective and enforceable to that end.
waste should include all types of waste, including animal by-products, and we should be very clear as to our definition of waste ships.
we know that we do not have the capacity within the eu to treat the waste ships ourselves, but it is urgent that we stop the dismantling of european ships in asia under terrible social and environmental conditions.
we already have international agreements governing aspects of waste policy.
my group fully supports the change in the regulation's legal basis to article 175. the sole objective of this regulation is, clearly, climate protection.
it should be remembered that these gases were already included, in 1997, in the basket of gases to be controlled under the kyoto protocol and that this regulation emerged from a specific programme called the european climate change programme.
so we should not be fooled by the pro-f-gas lobbyists who argue both for avoiding a change of legal basis and for maintenance of the status quo for their climate-destructive products.
climate-friendly alternatives exist for almost all applications, or are in development.
none of the phase-outs and bans proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy is unrealistic, as some would claim, since they all take into consideration exemptions where safety standards require.
i would also point out that f-gases were pushed onto the market as replacements for cfcs, which cause ozone depletion and skin cancers, precisely by the same big chemical companies – like dupont or, in my own country, ineos, as ici is now known – that were, themselves, major producers of ozone-destroying substances.
this parliament should stand firm and put the environment and the well-being of europe’s citizens before the narrow corporate interests of those chemical giants.
on the regulation, i think you have heard that the consensus view in parliament is going to be in favour of mrs doyle’s approach, and i am very loathe to use eu legislation to reduce environment standards in different member states.
by the same token, i am also loathe to agree, when we come to vote, on a series of prohibitions on the use of f gases, which have not been tested or assessed for their health and safety, nor for their economic or environmental impact.
in view of the time constraints, i would like to cover today the most basic issues raised in the resolution and the question and add that i will send mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment and health, a more detailed briefing on the various issues raised today so that the house can have some more technical details at its disposal.
the fact that waste has become a tradeable and even valuable commodity, brings with it a need for careful regulation in relation to movement of shipments of waste, both within and across member state boundaries.
protection of the environment must be a top priority, and i hope that both council and parliament will agree.
i also believe there is a need to limit movements by preventing unjustified shipments, dealing with waste disposal and recycling as near as possible to point of production of the waste, and ensuring that enforcement of waste shipment regulations is improved.
i support this report which aims to update existing eu rules on cross border shipments of waste and bring them into line with international agreements.
i voted in favour of excluding animal by products from the waste shipment rules as they are adequately covered by other legislation.
these include, for example, shortcomings identified in the veterinary sector, which could put at risk the sustainability of food safety in the enlarged eu, and the control of external borders in both countries.
now is not the time to speculate on the commission’s recommendation, but for the acceding countries to concentrate all their energy on the outstanding shortcomings identified in our reports.
it needs to be faster, but there has been a change in the external political environment.
i do not underestimate the political energy and commitment required to do even this, but legislation has to be robustly implemented and the results clear for all to see.
i see that the commission is calling for improvements in the business environment including labour market flexibility.
i want to congratulate not just mr quinton quayle, the british ambassador in bucharest, but the entire diplomatic corps of all eu member states who have put such time, effort and energy into assisting romania in achieving her goal.
now the same effort and energy must continue in the other sectors, particularly in justice, which is so critical for the romanian people.
the environment agency, which is the uk regulator, believes that there is a breach of the directive.
no less important are the regulation of river and estuarial fisheries and the maintenance of rivers in good ecological condition to ensure appropriate spawning success and the survival and growth of young salmon.
the challenge is then to establish a balance between the conditions by which fishing may be allowed to continue and to ensure that such fishing does not undermine the sustainability of stocks in need of recovery.
with regard to your point on the right balance, the commission has undertaken to carry out a review of the situation and to examine the success of the management strategies in order to see whether the balance is right between sustainability and the continuation of traditional fisheries for salmon.
financial aid in the field of trans-european transport and energy networks is important for maximising the benefits of cross-border cooperation in particular, and infrastructural integration.
technically it is possible, but it may be expensive, both for the consumers and for the environment, with sharp rises in energy consumption of up to 40%.
at this stage we should leave these further bans for assessment by the commission as to the overall impact they would have on the economy and environment.
labour meps strongly support the doyle report which seeks to contain and ensure safe use and proper recovery of f-gases which contribute to global warming.
i welcome this commission proposal aimed at reducing emissions from motor vehicle air conditioning systems which are covered by the kyoto protocol.
the recommendations contained in this report should give a welcome boost to trans european networks in the field of energy and transport.
it harbingers huge opportunities for wealth creation and intercultural exchange, but also cross-border challenges like migration, climate change and internationally organised crime.
let us go on to build the common policies in energy and home affairs of which you speak.
environmental technology is another area.
we are worried about globalisation, we are worried about security and terrorism, we are worried about the threat to our environment’.
a common energy policy was referred to by the prime minister.
secondly, on energy: presumably, a common energy policy will include very dynamic movement on eco-efficiency; what lead is the presidency giving on that?
what shift in the budget will move funds to renewables in order, at least, to put them on a par with nuclear energy?
it is true that it is essential to make progress on climate change, especially if we want to make progress on poverty in africa.
how, then, is the presidency linking issues on climate change to other issues, for example within the lisbon agenda, promoting, i suppose, things like a really radical training strategy in order that our workforce can cope with climate change?
lastly, what action will the presidency be taking in terms of globalisation to drive standards up on an international level in the labour and environmental spheres?
clearly, i welcome what the president-in-office has said today, particularly about energy policy because, as the acting president will recall, it was something i made reference to at the labour party conference.
it is our failure to get the single market fully completed that is important, as well as transport infrastructure and energy infrastructure.
mr désir raised important issues in relation to energy infrastructure and universities.
in relation to mrs lambert’s points, specifically on climate change, let me be very direct in terms of the progress that we wish to see.
we wish to build consensus around the threat of climate change and the need for urgent action to tackle it.
that is why on 17 october the environment council, under our presidency, agreed an initial european union position for the united nations climate change negotiations in december.
we are keen to provide a solid foundation of work for the european union’s medium- and long-term climate change strategy, and a range of council formations and the european union’s external summits are contributing to that end.
finally, we seek agreement on the need for cost-effective, flexible solutions to tackle emissions from eu aviation and, as the presidency, we welcomed the recent study commissioned by the commission, which recommends emissions trading as the best solution.
we are planning an initial discussion at the december environment council on these issues.
as our prime minister very eloquently put it in his summation of today’s debate, if you look at the future challenges that europe faces, whether on the issue of climate change or the issue of securing prosperity and sustaining social protection in the face of the challenge of globalisation, it is not difficult to make a case for the importance of europe’s work over the coming 50 years.
the council is well aware of the issues raised by the honourable member and shares her view that measures on energy efficiency are one of the key instruments in tackling climate change.
several elements have to be considered in order to develop a compromise leading to an effective directive, such as how long the directive should apply, the level of the savings target, the role of the public sector, the use of energy efficiency indicators and benchmarks, as well as a reliable monitoring system.
if the government has a genuine commitment to energy efficiency, when are we going to see it in terms of a toughness in the current negotiations between the council and parliament?
we have had a lot of rhetoric about climate change and energy saving, but we still are not seeing the action in the actual text on the table.
we have been clear throughout that all member states are committed to increasing their energy savings in line with the targets set out in the directive.
however, mandatory energy savings targets could lead to short-term measures being implemented purely to meet targets, rather than the long-term focus which is needed.
placing specific targets on individual elements of the package of measures, such as energy efficiency being undertaken to reach that target, would reduce the flexibility we require in meeting them.
the waste incineration directive neither precludes nor discourages the use of waste as a competitive and efficient alternative energy source.
rather, the aim of the directive is to prevent or to limit, as far as is practical, negative effects on the environment and human health from the incineration and co-incineration of waste.
waste tallow is only included in the scope of the directive where it is incinerated or co-incinerated.
other waste disposal or recovery operations involving waste tallow, such as its processing into bio-diesel, are not subject to the directive’s requirements but are subject to control under the waste framework directive.
it would also benefit our scottish constituency farmers and our scottish environment.
however, on the way forward and on the prospect of action by the european commission, let me take the opportunity to say that the commission has indicated an intention to place a consultancy contract, within the next month, for a study of the environmental, regulatory and operational impacts of the inclusion of the burning of waste tallow within the scope of the waste incineration directive.
the study will include recommendations to the commission concerning whether the application of the waste incineration directive’s regulatory controls to the burning of waste tallow is appropriate.
a simple solution would be for the presidency to ask the commission to consider putting out an advisory note stating that tallow should not be considered as part of the waste directive.
there is a real need to achieve carbon neutrality and to avoid placing unnecessary costs on business.
so, saying mr martin’s suggestion is one way forward, i would also ask whether the council would be prepared to support members of the european parliament in asking the commission to produce a list of materials in relation to which it will refrain from instigating any infringement proceedings under the waste incineration directive until an analysis has been conducted of their overall environmental effect when used as a fuel source.
whilst they are grateful for the negotiations, they are anxious that you do not let the positive energy that is now flowing in these negotiations negate the very real human rights considerations the kurdish community still has.
the commission proposal for fp7 includes health and environment as priority research topics.
as regards research potentially relevant to respiratory diseases, the following topics are proposed amongst others: innovative therapeutic approaches and intervention with potential applications in many diseases; transnational research into infectious diseases and major diseases including cancer; the quality, efficiency and solidarity of health systems; enhanced disease prevention and better use of medicines; the interaction of environmental factors such as pollution with human health.
none, to my knowledge, directly targets alpine mountain cattle breeds, but many are aimed at farmers that deliver the kind of benefits that many european union citizens would associate with alpine farming, such as managing sensitive landscapes and habitats and, indeed, maintaining biodiversity.
madam president, azerbaijan is one the european union’s key partners in the southern caucasus region, principally due to its geostrategic location and energy resources.
as a consequence of this climate, we have learnt of dozens of candidates who have withdrawn in the last hours.
the worrying deterioration in the climate of the electoral campaign over the last few days threatens to completely overshadow this limited progress.
environmental cooperation is also one of our priorities.
for these reasons, we have voted against amendments or proposals that would breach the 1.0% ceiling without, in our view, contributing to the promotion of sustainable growth and jobs in europe.
however, we do support projects that will encourage the development and supply of new-generation energy solutions.
mr president, i very much welcome this initiative by parliament and by our colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy.
i just want to quote from it: ‘the top priority today is to restore sustainable dynamic growth and jobs in europe’.
we must help europe rediscover its drive towards economic growth and competitiveness, ruthlessly cutting out waste and bureaucracy and concentrating on the prerequisites for that agenda.
those prerequisites are, admittedly, deregulation and lower taxes, but they are also healthier people living in a healthier environment.
we also need to press on with our agenda for the environment, with climate change, emissions trading, air quality, waste reduction, reuse and recycling, noise and the urban environment, the protection of wildlife and habitats, and a reduction in animal testing.
the major problems seem to be: first, a lack of scientific information on the life cycle of elvers - we are not even sure where their breeding grounds are, although the sargasso sea is the prime suspect; second, increased levels of pollution and barriers to the eels accessing the streams, rivers and ditches where they flourish and grow.
this does not appear to be the result of over fishing but linked to environmental factors.
it is clearly important to know the precise cause be it pcbs, global warming or fish diseases.
we need this information not just so that action can be taken to protect eel stocks but because of the wider environmental concerns and problems this might highlight.
today i also supported amendments which sought to make social and environmental reporting obligatory and supported the kind of reform of the cap which would "make poverty history".
the second casualty has been the commission’s claim to be neutral in its support both for economic developments and for environmental protection at one and the same time.
after commissioner verheugen’s quite disgraceful attempts even to undermine the position taken by the british presidency, we are entitled to believe that the balance in the commission is now firmly anti-environment.
mr sacconi and mrs ek have negotiated compromises that will meet the genuine concerns of industry while still setting high standards of environmental protection.
mr president, many in my group have highlighted the enormous weaknesses in the sacconi-nassauer compromise in terms of health and the environment and of course i agree with them.
many of these were adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, a move that has already helped to increase the pressure on the commission and industry to push for further work on non-animal tests.
sir tom blundell, chairman of the royal commission on environmental pollution, said that, given our understanding of the way chemicals interact with the environment, you could say we are running a gigantic experiment with humans and other living things as the subject.
that is why it is so important to support the sacconi-nassauer compromise and ensure the passage of this legislation through parliament, so that we can improve human health and the environment across the world, while at the same time maintaining our own industrial competitiveness.
as far as sustainability impact assessments are concerned, they have already been conducted on the first batch of nama sectors in 2002/2003, i.e.
the commission therefore supports the sustainable development of coastal-zone management in asia via the transfer of best practices and environmental solutions from europe to asia.
this, moreover, should help safeguard shrimp production – an eligible sector under that programme – which is to address the development of environmental management in coastal areas engaging in aquaculture.
i would also like to indicate my appreciation for the quality of the debates which have taken place in the committee on industry, research and energy.
looking at the supply of energy, i want to stress that the choice of energy supply is up to each member state.
it is their individual decision as to which energy mix they prefer, of course within the framework set by the european union, such as commitments for reduction of co2 emissions, or promotion of renewable energy.
nuclear energy today produces one third of electricity in the european union.
the role of nuclear energy is closely linked to a solid strategy dealing with security of nuclear material and non-proliferation, radiation protection, nuclear safety, reliable disposal of nuclear waste and the safe decommissioning of nuclear installations.
i have to say though that i do not share mrs beckett’s upbeat assessment of how the european union is doing, despite the british government’s pledge to make climate change a priority for its presidency.
hearing the g8 communiqué on climate change being called ambitious stretches the english language almost to breaking point.
earlier this year, we commissioned a report from the association for the conservation of energy to assess how well this government has been implementing existing european laws on reducing fossil-fuel use.
their findings made clear that this is a government which has delayed implementation of the directive on the energy performance of buildings, demanded an increase in the uk’s level of co2 emissions permitted under the eu emissions trading scheme, failed to set binding targets for energy-demand reduction under the energy services directive, and failed to promote small-scale combined heat and power plants in line with the cogeneration directive.
this is why the council should take particular notice of the european parliament’s report on climate change, which has been expertly drafted by anders wijkman.
in particular, the report demands strong emission reductions at home, starting with 20% to 30% domestic reductions in the eu by 2020, increasing to between 60% and 80% by 2050. it calls for the goal to make europe the most energy-efficient economy in the world by setting targets for annual reduction in energy of the order of 2.5% to 3% and for a robust strategy for montreal.
and, in our amendment, the greens are calling on the eu to ensure a formal mandate and timetable for negotiating future climate commitments with a time limit for achieving agreement at the end of 2008. i want to end with two quick questions for the council.
second, alongside the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading scheme, will the council propose instruments in parallel to tackle the full climate impact of aviation since, as we know, the emissions trading scheme will not cover emissions that are not co2 related?
mr president, i heartily endorse the comments of my group colleague, dr lucas, on the uk government’s fairly patchy record on seriously tackling climate change.
the fact is that we need a step change in the way we debate climate change, particularly among the public.
renewable energy is the key plank of the solution.
my own country, scotland, could lead the world in clean, green renewable energy.
we have waves, a long coastline, windswept hills, biomass and geothermal power, and the raw material for hydroelectric power falls from the sky on a regular basis, and yet we are not nearly investing sufficiently in renewable technologies in scotland or in europe.
in the case of scotland, this is because the united kingdom controls energy policy and remains wedded to a nuclear agenda, which i believe offers no long-term solution.
we in this house can play our part in this step change on renewable energy and the debate on climate change, and we must unite around mr wijkman’s report.
the commission can play its part by prioritising renewable energy in the fp7 programmes.
whilst kyoto is only a small step in the fight against climate change, we must throw our support behind it and urge those who have not signed up to do so immediately.
i also want to support the amendments made by my colleagues in the gue/ngl group, particularly the assertion that the promotion of an unbridled free market has led to excess consumption, which in turn leads to increased emissions of greenhouse gases.
decommissioning is an important issues as there are some 50-60 nuclear power plants in the eu that will be decommissioned by 2025. it goes without saying that nuclear power plants need to be shut down safely to protect people and the environment.
with so many alternative technologies available, i believe that we must invest in renewables, which will leave no ecological legacy.
i welcomed the report outlining the need to fight the climate change battle.
the eu has reduced its emissions by 3% below the 1990 level but more has to be done to reach the 8% target agreed in the kyoto protocol.
although i agree that the eu needs to reduce its emissions to reach the target agreed in the kyoto agreement, i find the report to be extremely optimistic considering the inclusion of more policy areas and the time limit and would like to see a greater sense of urgency.
if individual member states were to expend the same effort and energy addressing the issue of how, as nations, to compete in a global market as they did in preparing showcase summits, then i suspect we might all see much more product.
it is possible, if you wish, to swim in the sea off blackpool in my region because of european union laws that have improved the environment.
i welcome the papers that were presented at hampton court, because they deal with how the european union can bring added value to our citizens, particularly in the area of the energy markets where we have a crisis waiting to happen.
indeed in the remarks that were made by my ministerial colleague the foreign secretary in this house this afternoon, he made clear that ‘failure to sign off accounts for the eleventh successive year, which is very poor, affects the climate of debate in all our countries’.
indeed, the british presidency in 1976, when represented in the energy council by one tony benn, took the initiative of saying that council should meet in public when acting on legislation.
air in the atmosphere and the air we breathe is rightly considered a subject necessary for environmental legislation at eu level.
at the same time, the uk’s independent nuclear deterrent force continues to be a vital element of our defence strategy and one which has not lost relevance in spite of the changed security environment in which we live.
we voted in favour today, even though this legislation it is not as strong as we would have wished, because we need legislation that will protect lives and workers’ health, as well as the environment.
the regulation of chemicals within the eu must give proper protection to workers, consumers and the environment while, at the same time, being workable and maintaining the competitiveness of european industry and thereby ensuring jobs.
the women's institute, including representatives i met with this week from cambridge and bury st. edmunds, said we should put the environment and consumer safety first, and i am deeply proud that the european parliament as a whole has been persuaded by their campaign.
after a long a complex vote my initial assessment is that parliament has just about struck the right balance between the vital issues of protecting human health and the environment on the one hand and not over burding industry or creating a legal requirment for unnecessary animal testing on the other.
i voted in the reach debate as i did because, as a labour mep, i support the overall objectives of reach: the protection of human health and the environment through increased knowledge about potentially hazardous chemicals.
i believe that vertebrate animal testing should be kept to the absolute minimum necessary to ensure that sufficient information is available for decision-making on health and environmental protection.
those so-called non-tariff barriers include hard-won democratically agreed national laws that protect the environment, social standards and health and they must not be regarded simply as barriers to trade.
this means that government, political parties and civil society must work together to build an environment conducive to legitimate political activity.
poverty eradication and sustainable development are the overarching objectives of both the 2000 ec development policy statement and the revised european consensus on development, agreed by development ministers at the general affairs and external relations council on 22 november 2005. although education and health did not feature in the 2000 dps, the revised european consensus on development policy highlighted human development as an area for community action.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
(the sitting was suspended at 20.15 and resumed at 21.00)
mr president, my group in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety endorses the approach of our draftsman mr sturdy, not least in his encomia for the general rapporteur mr parish, and for the commissioner and his emphasis throughout on studied vigilance rather than either hysteria or complacency.
this particular ruling applied only to environmental law, but it has left the way wide open for the commission to apply it to other areas.
mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and in particular, the rapporteur, mr blokland, for this report.
consequently, many batteries placed on the community market today still risk ending up in the environment, in incineration or in landfills.
the commission has accepted the overall package of the common position as a well-balanced package, on the condition that the level of environmental protection should not be lowered compared to the policy measures contained in the commission’s original proposal.
i am confident that the rest of the codecision process will allow a further fine-tuning of the right mix of policy measures, which are needed to protect our environment from battery pollution in the most eco-efficient way.
– mr president, my group welcomes the batteries directive as an important first attempt to take these potentially environmentally damaging substances out of the waste stream.
we need a full assessment of the social, environmental and economic impact of any such bans before we agree to introduce them.
mr president, i very much welcome this legislation which, i think, will help clean up our environment.
finally on the legal base issue, i shall be supporting the rapporteur and the socialist group on a legal base, but we have to bang heads together on this issue of articles 175 and 95 because we have kept coming up against this issue in environmental legislation over the past few months.
we do not want to see legislation on the environment that undermines higher standards in those member states that choose to have them.
hailed as an environmental project, it has done near irreparable damage to fish stocks.
colleagues in various departments of the commission have looked at the report covering areas such as environmental policy, justice and home affairs, consumer policy and regional policy.
in particular we were disappointed that the target for energy-efficiency savings has been set at only 9% over 9 years, instead of the 11.5% proposed by parliament at first reading.
we would also have liked the targets to be binding, but it is good that the compromise at least lays down certain mandatory actions, including public procurement requirements and the introduction of energy-efficiency action plans, which will be used to measure member states’ progress towards the energy-saving targets.
i would like to say a particular word about the metering and billing proposals in article 13. these are essential because they establish the fundamental principle that consumers have a right to information about how much energy they are using.
it is only when people have such knowledge that they can start to adapt their behaviour and choose energy-saving options.
i am very pleased that the compromise text requires electricity and gas customers to be provided with individual meters that accurately reflect their actual energy consumption and give information on the time of use.
the text also includes a requirement for information on energy use and cost to be provided with customers’ bills and crucially it requires billing to be provided on the basis of actual consumption, not estimated consumption, and to be frequent enough to enable people to work out for themselves how to be more energy efficient.
i believe this directive marks the start of a new era in which across europe we will all become much wiser about the way we use energy and i hope the house will support the compromise wholeheartedly.
it will put pressure on member states to provide an attractive tax environment for our businesses and to be efficient and careful in their public spending and budgeting.
ukip take environmental issues very seriously, however, we cannot accept that the eu impose legislation on member states and believe these decisions should be taken at national level.
second, it is clear that nickel-cadmium batteries only contribute between 1% and 3% of cadmium in the environment compared to 27% from fertilizers.
the drive to outlaw them seems driven by a refusal to confront this statistic in the interests of certain national battery manufacturers and the inability to confront public misconceptions as to the real situation of cadmium pollution.
i have no problem burdening industry where there are real advantages to improving environmental standards, but such perverse decisions like today's only threatens support for future environmental legislation and public support.
mr president, i voted in the way that i did on various amendments on the blokland report on batteries, accumulators and their waste because i believe that this directive will reduce heavy metal waste from batteries and improve recycling in my london constituency.
there is no doubt that we need to reduce pollution from batteries and improve recycling of batteries.
to try and build into legislation arbitrarily such issues as environmental damage, which cannot be calculated with any confidence, is plainly ludicrous.
this agreement is part of our strategy for sustainable development, while encouraging the competitiveness of our economies and guaranteeing the principle of fairness: if the user is the payer, he does not have to pay twice.
in addition, the amounts released should be reused as far as possible for sustainable transport.
for the commissioner i am, this compromise is a commitment to the future, to commit ourselves to mobility compatible with the requirements of sustainable development.
to engage in some kind of shadow boxing when we do not know what the proposals are seems to me to be really quite ridiculous and a waste of our time.
romania’s control of its borders and collection of customs dues – with the settlement of the snake island dispute in the black sea – is important, as is improving food hygiene, environmental pollution and intellectual property protection.
the council has not discussed the question of energy efficiency and the monthly movement of the european parliament between brussels and strasbourg.
energy saving was not an issue in europe 50 years ago but it is now and the council and parliament agree on that.
i certainly take seriously the question of energy efficiency and there have been various steps taken by the european union – commendably – in that regard.
it is not just a matter of energy efficiency, but of financial efficiency.
the commission can accept amendment 1 and will continue to do what is possible within its competence to work towards ensuring the sustainability of the resources in third countries.
since the natura 2000 network falls under the community’s environmental policy, the commission cannot accept amendment 9 in a regulation which exclusively concerns the common fisheries policy.
the commission will, however, ensure coherence of the common fisheries policy with environmental objectives.
for similar reasons, the commission cannot accept amendment 10. in the framework of fisheries partnership agreements, the council conclusions referred to earlier require coherence between the objectives of the cfp and the objectives of other community policies such as environmental objectives.
this will assist the member states to establish multiannual, aggregated and science-based data sets which incorporate biological, environmental and economic information.
the financial support for the collection of data on the impact of fisheries on the environment in relation to adopting an ecosystem-based approach is also important.
it is also important to develop control capacities of third countries to ensure sustainable fishing monitoring and control of fishing activities.
only last week, the environmental justice foundation published a report on illegal fishing in guinea and its links to the european union.