mr president, unfortunately the european union and the other imperialist industrial states' adherence to the logic of maximising capital gains precludes the achievement of a genuine and satisfactory objective, in accordance with scientific studies on the reduction of pollutant emissions and the limitation of climate change with catastrophic consequences for the future of the planet itself.
the commission's assurance that the greenhouse gas trading programme and other flexible mechanisms will not jeopardise but rather protect the competitiveness of the european union's economy is not convincing.
instead of reducing, as it had intended, it increased emissions by 3 points, confirming how complex, unstable and ultimately ineffective the kyoto climate change response is.
these are measures to substantially reduce emissions, such as the promotion of renewable energy sources, the use of biofuels, the use of more of the thermal energy produced in power stations, and the substantial protection and use of forests as a vehicle for absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
the famous horizontal social clause with the union's obligation to ensure that in all its policies the objectives of high employment, environmental protection, public health, education, equality between men and women are promoted will only be implemented by good laws.
thirdly, i propose that the european parliament should support the proposal put forward at the united nations in september 2004 and already supported by some 100 countries for a global tax on capital movements, arms sales or the consumption of non-renewable energy to finance emergency aid for natural disasters.
the predatory interventions of big business in the environment for the sake of profit bear a great responsibility for turning natural disasters into humanitarian ones.
a balanced policy of pressuring and monitoring iran's respect for democratic freedoms and human rights, while providing incentives for the development of relations, is the only effective way of instilling a climate of mutual trust, avoiding conflictual competition and a unilateral strategic approach to solving regional problems.
the failure to achieve the lisbon objectives is used as an argument to undermine the pillars of social and regional cohesion and environmental protection in the name of competitiveness.
the approach of the kok committee is opposite to us, because it leads to less europe, particularly in the areas of cohesion and the environment, and to more social dumping, which undermines the european welfare state.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
where all our competitors emphasize competitiveness and growth, we emphasize waste and debt.
i must say that, as i told him in london at the imo headquarters, the text before parliament is in full compliance with international law, namely the marpol convention on the prevention of pollution and the un convention on the law of the sea.
and we are getting pollution offences defined in the same way throughout europe and subject to comparable deterrent sanctions throughout europe.
amendments nos 19 and 22 aim to draw up an exhaustive list of all operators in the long chain of maritime transport who can be held liable in the event of accidents and pollution.
the convention gives coastal states the opportunity to strengthen their pollution prevention and control systems in their territorial waters.
that is why the commission does not agree on the substance and why it is good that the committee on transport has been wise in not accepting amendments nos 21 and 23. finally, a word on amendment no 2, which refers to recital 7. this amendment concerns the revision of the international system of compensation for damage caused by oil pollution, the so-called fipol system.
secondly, the commission insists on the implementation of international conventions on liability and compensation in the event of pollution.
all this is necessary if the compromise is to make sense and if european public opinion is to feel much better protected against all this marine pollution, the extremely disastrous effects of which the rapporteur has shown on our natural heritage and on all the wealth of the sea.
i have listened to you very carefully, mr president, commissioner, and to our rapporteur, mrs wortmann-kool, because the subject we are discussing tonight is of particular importance and involves many aspects of sustainable economic growth and job creation.
the european union's policy is aimed at developing maritime transport and at the same time protecting the marine environment, an objective which we all share.
the main reason for this finding is that the provisions introduced create a breach of the international marpol convention as regards the basis of liability for accidental pollution and the marine areas where it applies.
the vast majority of citizens are calling for stricter measures to prevent marine pollution, which affects not only the environment and public health but also fisheries and tourism.
but how can anyone object to such a directive when we take into account the ecological cost?
the cost of the fishing industry, the cost of the blow to tourism, as well as the unemployment that plagues areas hit by oil pollution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, experience has shown that preventive and punitive measures to punish ship owners, ship operators, ship managers and, more generally, persons and authorized bodies responsible for the condition, operation and seaworthiness of ships for pollution-related offences are grossly inadequate.
by court decisions, ship owners, shipowners, managers, agents, insurers, charterers, cargo owners and others who make up the chain of logistical infrastructure of ships, perpetrators of maritime crimes and environmental disasters, making use of national and international legislation, are not punished.
on the contrary, in violation of international law, shipowners are being used as scapegoats, hostages, to appease the worker's concerns and to stop the mass workers' movement fighting for the protection of the environment.
it has been shown that a policy designed to increase competitiveness and the profits of shipping and land-based industries and monopolies is extremely dangerous for the protection of human life at sea and the environment.
the directive on pollution from ships and the introduction of penalties for infringements is part of this anti-people policy, which aims to strengthen the competitiveness of companies and increase the profitability of capital.
the pollution of the sea and the destruction of the environment are matters of great political importance.
in conclusion, on the basis of the reference made to our amendment no 19, let me say, mr president, that: we really do not understand, since both the commissioner and the rapporteur and the council accept that it does not change the substance of amendment no 19, why they do not accept the terms which actually identify more clearly the persons responsible for pollution-related violations ... (the president interrupts)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a proposal for a directive which is the direct consequence of a tragic event.
it is a pity that we have had to suffer a very great ecological disaster to realise that, although the vast majority of those who operate in the shipping industry operate responsibly, there are a few whose irresponsibility can have enormous negative consequences for the marine environment.
greece, a country with a long tradition in shipping, thanks to the conscientiousness of the shipping industry workers and, of course, of the shipowners and greek seamen, as well as all others involved, has not suffered any major accidental pollution disaster to date.
as greek socialists, who are concerned both with the protection of the environment and of the people working in the shipping industry, we support the proposal and believe that this proposal for a directive is a positive step in the fight against both functional and accidental pollution and intentional pollution, as the rapporteur mrs wortmann-kool has very rightly pointed out.
in a large lake like the mediterranean, with increased shipping traffic which is multiplying day by day, as a greek from a country which is the largest maritime power in the union, but also a country in which tourism is a key sector of its economy, a country with a huge length of coast and hundreds of islands, i believe that we have a duty to take the lead in the fight against marine pollution and the protection of the marine world.
relations with iran - we know the debate there is - i am one of those who would say to you 'beware of nuclear energy' because i am against nuclear energy, against nuclear weapons, but at the same time i would say to you that the approach must be a diplomatic approach and not a military approach and wars.
we are also working to build up the ministries of trade and energy.
mr president, with regard to the wortmann-kool report, i would like to point out that the new democracy meps voted in favour of the amendment tabled by the rapporteur, mr varvizio, in which we support the compatibility of community law with the marpol convention on liability issues relating to penalties for accidental pollution.
we believe that in both territorial and international waters community law should be governed by the same rules as the marpol convention, and this is linked to equal treatment of ships and effective pollution management at world level, because shipping is a global activity and should be governed by international conventions.
we also supported amendment no 37, which calls for a system of cooperation between national authorities, since many accidents are caused by a lack of cooperation and a poor exchange of know-how, and for a feasibility study to be carried out on the new measures and policies which the european union intends to implement for the development of maritime transport in the context of effective water management and protection against pollution.
it is therefore up to the european council, on the basis of what the commission has submitted to us and in the spirit of the three lisbon pillars - the economic pillar/competitiveness; the link with the social model; sustainable development and environmental protection - to propose a better-organised, more readable strategy, integrating the various processes we already have today.
we have the cardiff processes, the processes for sustainable development, the guidelines for employment, the broad guidelines for economic policy and so on.
i believe that this creates a more favourable environment for the success of the strategy.
the other two - the environment and cohesion - will be left out.
can the council give assurances that cohesion and environmental policies will not be undermined and that the resources to serve these policies will also be secured?
references to poverty, hunger, environmental degradation, health, education, etc.
this regulation represents one of the steps needed to create the right conditions for the internal market in energy.
by the end of this year the commission will produce a report analysing the situation in the energy market, which will be prepared in conjunction with the competition authorities.
i wish to thank parliament and the rapporteur for the good work done in preparing this piece of legislation on the energy market.
mr president, given the significant benefits of renewable energy sources for the environment, public health, the quality of life of citizens, the question to which neither the commission nor the european parliament has given an effective answer is how we can further promote the development of renewable energy sources so that citizens can taste their benefits.
the first is to create a more favourable policy environment for the promotion of renewable energy sources.
the role of governments is crucial here, as the large multinational energy companies continue to invest primarily in oil and it is not easy to abandon this unilateral approach.
so we need a web of incentives from governments to encourage alternative energy investments and to create profitable markets for alternative energy sources.
the second pillar is to create an appropriate legal framework to support renewable sources: the commission's proposal is to protect these markets from the encroachments of an energy system which was built - with its legal foundations - at a time when renewable energy was almost unknown.
the third and most important aspect, however, and this is where the question i have put to the european commission with my colleagues is focused, is the rapid growth of public and private investment in research to develop better and cheaper technologies related to renewable sources.
the development of renewable energy sources is crucially dependent on research into the development of new technologies and now is the opportunity: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of the community's own resources, but also of the community's own resources.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to place the issue of renewable energy sources in the context of the lisbon strategy and the kyoto protocol to combat climate change.
the advantages: (a) protection of the environment and human health, and (b) pressure for technological innovation.
renewable energy sources can certainly contribute to the security of europe's energy supply, but they can also contribute to the lisbon strategy through technological development, technology exports, job creation and environmental protection.
what steps does the commissioner intend to take in this direction, apart from promoting - or even making possible - voluntary agreements with the energy industry?
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the safety of the air transport sector.
is it a coincidence that the countries that are being cut off from nuclear weapons, with america at the forefront, are the same countries that are not participating in the hague criminal court and those countries that are snubbing the kyoto agreements on the environment?
the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the protection of the environment, and it is in the interests of the community that the commission should take this initiative.
this is even more so when development is linked to other important components such as environmental protection, social responsibility and good governance.
we don't need to break up our societies and destroy the environment to achieve high development goals.
in march 2000, we decided in lisbon to maximise europe's competitiveness within the constraints of maintaining cohesion and protecting the environment.
thus, the mid-term review sums up the lisbon strategy in a simple equation: focus on research and technology programmes + support for small and medium-sized enterprises + construction of critical infrastructure + upgrading human resources + promoting structural change = sustainable long-term growth or sustainable development.
the environment is not a problem without problems, but president bush has acknowledged the serious problem of climate change.
in particular, we all know that we live in an era of uncertainty and increasingly massive risks, especially environmental ones.
in fact, both the commission communication on the lisbon mid-term review and the resolution we adopted today stress the importance of eco-innovation for sustainable development in europe.
this means that environmental technologies and high environmental standards will be given a prominent place in the revised lisbon strategy.
the european union cannot pretend, mr president, to promote crops that respect public health and the environment on the one hand and allow products such as genetically modified organisms on the other.
let us not waste too much time on the legal basis either in the council or between our institutions, if we share - i hope - the objective of being effective in the fight against crime while ensuring - and this is also the concern of the council - respect for the protection of privacy and keeping in mind the economic costs of these new measures.
and then the fundamental rights, i said, an impact assessment that we will do: any commission initiative will be assessed before it is adopted with reference to the system of fundamental rights written in the charter; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the honourable member raises a number of issues relating to the application of community legislation on hazardous waste in greece.
as regards the criteria for accepting waste in the various categories of landfill, the procedures and measures for accepting waste in landfills, as they are euphemistically called in greek, are mainly laid down in the interministerial decision 29407/3508 of 2002 transposing the waste landfill directive into greek law.
all greek legislation on the management of hazardous waste is notified to the commission immediately after its adoption.
in july 2004, council decision 2003/33 laying down the criteria and procedures for the acceptance of waste at landfills entered into force.
the second question concerns information on the hazardous waste produced annually in greece.
in the context of reporting on the implementation of the hazardous waste directive, the greek authorities shall provide information on the quantities of waste produced annually and on the methods used for its disposal or recovery.
according to the information available, the average annual quantity of hazardous waste generated for the period 1998-2003 was 363 400 tonnes.
the majority of this, about two thirds of the hazardous waste generated, is temporarily stored before being finally disposed of or recovered.
in particular, member states are required to send the commission information on any plant, undertaking or installation which disposes of and recovers hazardous waste.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out in a uniform manner.
the commission is aware that the option to use nuclear energy has been under consideration in turkey for many years, since 1965. we have informed parliament on this issue on several occasions.
the commission recalls that under the treaties, each member state is free to use the energy sources of its choice.
currently, roughly half of all member states use nuclear energy.
if turkey is going to generate nuclear energy, it will obviously have to ensure a high level of nuclear safety as well.
as a candidate country, turkey will also be expected to comply with the euratom acquis on nuclear safeguards and radiation protection, as well as the directive on environmental impact assessments.
under the international convention of nuclear safety, of which the european atomic energy community is a contracting party, turkey already has an obligation to consult neighbouring countries on proposed nuclear installations.
studies for up to three other possible sites have recently been included in the investment plans of the ministry of energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so in the near future.
the question is, firstly, a high level of security and, secondly, that we all - and the european commission - guarantee that nuclear energy will be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and not for military purposes.
sustainable development and ecological action are a need and a priority for the european union and are fully in line with the lisbon strategy.
given the difficulty of dealing with such issues, which involve many commercial and economic activities, i would like to stress the following: the self-regulation process is a very positive solution in the speedy implementation of the ecodesign framework and can help improve market response and the adoption of legislation on energy-consuming products and needs to be governed by very strict limits so that companies are obliged, through creative and realistic processes, to follow and implement it.
derogations in favour of member states on matters concerning environmental aspects, which differ from country to country, such as hazard limits and environmental behaviour, are necessary given the diversity and heterogeneity of environmental conditions in each country.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
thirdly, the drawing up of a comprehensive and coherent strategic plan for the development of the balkans with the intermediate objective of integrated and sustainable development and the final objective of convergence with the european union.
in my view, ensuring the security of europe is not just a matter of defence policy or military action but is now above all a matter of conflict prevention, civilian crisis management and common policies on trade, the economy, energy, justice, health and the environment.
in these messages, it indicates that this issue should be given priority in reforms to ensure social adequacy and the sustainability of pension systems in the future, depending on the situation in each country.
it would be premature to present more concrete proposals in the current environment, given the fact that these proposals depend on the budgetary situation.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
in the absence of a european definition of what constitutes best practice for agriculture, we ask the member states to carry out additional controls in this area to prevent pollution.
at the same time, farmers should be supported in their quest for a cleaner environment through rural development programmes, so that the objectives of both the water framework directive and the groundwater framework directive are achieved.
we also suggest that member states report and evaluate in the meantime the measures taken to prevent pollution.
that is why i cannot understand people who say that we have no money to invest in the future, in the environment and in our children.
mr president, it is very important that the right conditions are put in place so that climate change policy and the kyoto protocol can start to produce concrete results.
but it is equally important to give the right direction so that policy and progress on reducing greenhouse gas emissions can be mapped out and addressed over time.
and i was pleased that the commissioner spoke about a strategy beyond 2012. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
sustainable development cannot be achieved without the development of new environmental technology and innovation, particularly in the transport and energy sectors.
the seminar of government experts should also include the issue of promoting environmental technologies and innovation.
to this end, the workshop is useful in identifying the factors which are currently causing the greatest environmental burden and consequently promoting the necessary environmental technologies and innovations in order to mitigate these harmful effects.
under the third community support framework for greece, there are two operational programmes – ‘environment’ and ‘attica’ – that include actions relating to the habitation of urban sites as well as support for leisure parks and green areas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the central asian region cannot be a new arena of conflict between the great powers, the united states, russia and china, for the strategic control of energy resources.
as the council has already indicated in its reply to question 1778 by mr rübig, the process of examining the commission's proposals led the council to adopt conclusions on nuclear safety and the safety of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste on 28 june.
at the same time, it is necessary - and i quote these conclusions - to facilitate the choice of one or more instruments within the framework of the euratom treaty which can contribute more effectively to ensuring nuclear safety and the safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste without excluding any instrument and in accordance with the principles of improving legislation.
in the light of these conclusions, an action plan was developed in the second half of 2004. it is structured around three components: safety of nuclear installations; safety of spent fuel and radioactive waste management; and financing of the decommissioning of nuclear installations and the safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
on the question of landfills, i have already told you that experts are in the process of discussing ways of ensuring that nuclear waste is disposed of in a better way.
i can assure you that in the context of the work being done, the presidency will do everything possible to advance this matter, keeping in mind safety, security and maximum protection of the environment, but also of people.
this principle also sets the limits of the wto's evolution into both a world social policy organization and a world environmental organization.
the proposal is therefore, in my view, to set up a new global architecture - an 'umbrella' - which would be based on the following pillars: - the wto, which promotes the efficient allocation of resources in a satisfactory way; - an international financial organization for international economic stability; - an international development organization for the international redistribution of resources and support for the development of poor countries; - an international environmental organization for the protection and improvement of the global environment and natural resources.
the conditions of the globalised economy dictate a new overall regulation of the world economic system on the basis of a social and ecological market economy.
for competitiveness and quality, i propose that research be stepped up and that it be directed: (c) research into the impact of products on the environment and consumer health.
finally, as regards the commission's communication on the textile industry, which sets as a strategic objective the maintenance of the production chain in the euro-mediterranean countries so that no waste is permanently removed from these countries, i have to say the following: - first, we must help the smes established there to become more flexible and to respond better to consumer demands; - secondly, the commission should expressly commit itself to facilitating trade within the euro-mediterranean area by harmonizing customs duties as quickly as possible and not to be satisfied with the current bilateral intergovernmental agreements.
you are asking russia to sign the kyoto protocol on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european agency for the protection of the environment.
in some cases doubts have been expressed about the need for energy efficiency, at least in the form proposed.
first of all, concerning the security of energy supplies, there are limited possibilities for the supply side.
the second issue which is extremely popular with member states, at least theoretically, is the climate change issue.
but the achievement of climate change goals is impossible without firmly addressing energy efficiency issues.
we can indicate that if the target of 1% per year of energy efficiency were achieved, we could save around 50% of the european union’s kyoto goals.
without addressing energy efficiency firmly we cannot achieve these goals.
sometimes it is perceived that energy efficiency is against the lisbon goals or against our competitiveness.
it is the only way to go forward because climate change is a global issue and if we get competitive development in this field, we will definitely be competitive leaders in the world.
first of all, we do not have very good experience with indicative targets; but secondly, in the energy efficiency area as it relates to all areas, mandatory targets are providing a sustainable policy.
if we compare, for example, new and old member countries, the energy consumption per capita in the new member countries is lower.
i think this is a less bureaucratic approach and is a policy throughout the union, and the member states that have invested in energy efficiency are gaining more and have more possibilities to achieve something in the energy efficiency field.
there has been less debate on energy services, but i think that this part of the directive is also very important.
if you personally look and see what has happened with energy services during your lifetime, you will see that not much has happened.
so this directive is giving a necessary boost for the construction of energy services, because the market by itself has not provided this development.
each member state can find something it has done in the energy efficiency area that could be used in other member states.
so it is very important at a european level, but also at member state, regional and local levels because energy efficiency is an aspect of each of the operations or uses of energy using the equipment that we have.
as i have said many times, i believe that olaf also needs a stable and secure environment for its development.
the cap is one of the policies which does not guarantee a stable long-term economic and business environment.
rural development, in order to strengthen the rural economy but also to keep pace with sustainable regional development, must have resources and integrated planning.
i would like to say that i am in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
we can't create a climate of panic.
by creating a climate of panic, we have created what the terrorists want.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
it is obvious that this report is also an attempt to create a climate of disorientation among workers by making the issue of 'terrorism' the greatest danger, so that the authoritarian measures proposed will be accepted and there will be a popular consensus in the formation of new repressive bodies and mechanisms.
it adopts a commission communication on this subject, which calls on the member states to draw up (in cooperation with private security companies) lists of facilities considered to be 'critical infrastructure' (private, public, public utility) in the following sectors: energy, communications, banking, health, food, water, transport, public administration, etc.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is trying to focus only on measures to prohibit the use of fishing gear throughout the mediterranean, whereas everyone knows that the burden on the ecological system in this sea area is a very acute problem and is linked to marine pollution, both in terms of the reckless use of pesticides and industrial pollution in general.
the monopoly of fishing and the profits of business groups will be strengthened at the expense of small and mediumsized fishermen, workers and the common people, with painful consequences for the marine ecosystem and, more generally, for the environment.
we believe that the development of fisheries must respect the ecological system and the potential of each region, as well as the wider interests of the local community and economy, far from the ambitions and interests of capital.
there has been an ecological disaster which has come to light and has become known, because there are others which we do not notice.
this unfortunate event proves once again that the environment knows no boundaries.
the broken nets have spread death and that should concern us i would like to say that we have a duty to protect the environment and that is the direction in which the report by my colleague is heading and that is why we must all vote in favour of it.
we have a duty to protect the marine environment.
the political environment must be created to promote political pluralism in order to ensure the democratic conduct of the elections next november.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs trautmann, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the information society (2004/2204 (ini)) (a6-0172/2005)
the debate is closed.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
in the committee on the environment we ended up calling for the ban of the three phthalates intended to be placed in contact with the mouth or in toys and childcare articles which could be placed in contact with the mouth and we called on the european commission to draw up guidelines for the implementation of the directive.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has also proposed amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment, which would allow the member states to take account of the environmental impact of the use of energy from renewable sources.
the recommendations in the resolution and the specific proposals for certain changes or additions to the commission proposal will hopefully help to form a politically acceptable position and the council to draw up a credible budget for the period 2007-13. we welcome the rapporteur's proposal for a balanced, multi-centred model of sustainable development for the whole of the european union with balanced development of the regions of the convergence objective and the objective of regional competitiveness and employment as well as flexible european cooperation.
we welcome the fact that the peneda proposal emphasises the horizontal integration of equality between men and women and the elimination of discrimination in all policies through specific actions aimed at increasing the sustainable participation of women and promoting their vocational training and development in employment, in line with the lisbon strategy.
the casa report is trying to attach great importance to balance and respect for the environment and to the proper management of fish stocks.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the amendments i tabled with other members of the group of the european united left: · they reinforce the text and make it clear to the european commission and the council that promoting competitiveness and entrepreneurship cannot be at the expense of sustainable development and cohesion.
· they are calling for increased resources for the structural funds and the cohesion fund because an unequal europe cannot be sustainable.
this will help regional economic integration and build a political climate of collectivity, cooperation and trust.
environmental degradation and the growing number of environmental issues, often of a transnational nature, require a change in the pan-european and global approach and approach.
to achieve this, it is necessary, alongside investment in the environment, to monitor the environmental actions of all programmes inside and outside the european union for their better functioning and coordination.
it is necessary to introduce the concept of nature and biodiversity protection as a key feature in the thematic priorities of the funding of the life+ programme as the main axis of action and actions in the new financial instrument.
i believe, commissioner, that the increase requested by the european parliament is the minimum required for the serious operation of life+, which is aimed at the key aspects of environmental policy, namely information, raising awareness among citizens and, above all, monitoring the implementation of this policy.
i am in favour of international competition against all forms of distortion, in favour of free and balanced trade, against infringements of intellectual and industrial property, against counterfeiting, against piracy, against aggressive economic, social and ecological dumping.
the european union must therefore make full use of the structural policies and the structural funds for the textile industry, make full use of the 7th framework programme for research and development, establish a specific community programme for the development of the textile and clothing sectors, make full use of the institutional capacity of the wto to prevent social and environmental dumping by china and to combat the problem of child labour by adopting, where necessary, specific trade defence measures, by ensuring and defending free and equal access to third countries' markets and unfair competition for european products, by defending the rights of consumers, by taking action to protect intellectual property, by making full use of the wto's institutional capacity to prevent social and environmental dumping by china and to combat the problem of child labour by adopting, where necessary, specific trade defence measures, by ensuring and defending free and equal access to third countries' markets and to unfair competition for european products, by defending the rights of consumers, by taking action to protect intellectual property, by taking the initiative to prevent international competition, by taking the initiative to replace the new comprehensive cooperation agreement on protection of intellectual property, which was concluded in 1985, by a new international agreement on cooperation and protection of intellectual property.
but the majority of the scientific community is confident that these days we have increased the intensity of these extreme weather events because of the ecological disaster, because of the climate change that we have brought about.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the other major industrial powers, such as the united states, india and china, need to understand that if we do not protect this environment, sooner or later it will be our own.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of the environment.
the programme is therefore called upon to support the implementation of the protection and combating of social exclusion of particularly disadvantaged groups, the improvement of the working environment, supplemented by the provision for a combination of family and professional life, in order to enable women to participate in the workplace.
first, the newly enlarged european union has as its main objective the difficult objective of economic and social cohesion in an environment of low development performance, regional and social inequalities that is the present one.
thirdly, the social problems of european citizens which progress aims to address are at the heart of the reflection on the effectiveness of our social model, the credibility of the european union and its sustainability.
this overall reduction, amounting to some eur 2.2 million, creates a climate of uncertainty for producers at a time when they are called upon to apply the new community agricultural policy and the new conditions of competition from international trade.
the proposed appropriations for equal opportunities are insufficient to meet the real needs arising from the competitive environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de sarnez, for his work on this matter.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
(the president cut off the speaker)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the attempt to make tourism more compatible with the anti-people strategy of lisbon is being made through empty speeches about the development of tourism and the protection of the environment.
the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and the environment in the union.
the response of european tourism to the challenge of competition should as a priority include competitive tourism businesses that provide quality services and do not harm the environment and do not distort local culture.
mr president, commissioner, today's debate on the future of sustainable tourism in the european union is proving to be particularly important and interesting.
the commission is dealing with tourism in developing countries from the point of view of aid to the private sector and the sustainable management of natural resources.
similarly, road, port and airport investments financed by the european development fund play a crucial role in the development of tourism, as do water supply, electrification, sanitation, waste treatment and environmental protection programmes.
secondly, the ecolabel scheme promoted by the commission enables tourism operators to obtain a label certifying that their tourism business complies with environmental standards, which is important for the eco-tourism market.
moreover, good environmental management of ecosystems such as forests, coral reefs or rivers would conserve these resources and generate long-term income for the local population.
i share the views expressed in points 1 and 2 on sustainable tourism.
the european union's cooperation with its partners is aimed at promoting sustainable development based on local resources and respect for the environment.
the private sector is consulted as recommended in point 15. as for the support given to countries affected by natural disasters, it is already a constant of community aid, as is the obligation to respect and protect the environment and local cultures.
however, an effective european union tourism policy towards the outside requires an integrated policy for the sustainability of european tourism within the european union.
i would like to link our discussion today to the one on the guidelines for sustainable european tourism.
a policy of sustainable tourism, a source of economic development for traditional and rural destinations, a source of knowledge of history and cultural heritage.
the political maturity and institutional completion of a european policy on sustainable european tourism will also facilitate the smooth integration of european tourism policy with european development policy.
climate change on the planet, as evidenced in the case of new orleans, and with prolonged drought and rising temperatures in africa, is hitting the least developed countries and poor populations the hardest.
this is the great gamble ahead of us, and i think that both parliament and the commission must do their best not to waste valuable time and to give the european union the constitutional treaty it is entitled to and deserves.
then we'll have ecological degradation, desertification and destruction.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
have solutions been sought in the energy-intensive transport sector, which consumes 70% of total production?
the conclusion is that the rise in oil prices, combined with natural disasters due - to a large extent - to the reckless consumption of fossil fuels, requires the abandonment of an energy-intensive development model and the rapid development of alternative forms of energy.
ms hall asked about the energy end-use efficiency and energy services directive.
mr turmes raised wider questions of environmental sustainability – i have just mentioned the energy end-use efficiency and energy services directive.
mrs hassi raised questions relating to the sustainability of supply.
the international energy agency noted in its 2004 world energy outlook that most estimates show that proven oil reserves are sufficient to meet projected world demand over the next three decades and that global oil production will not peak before 2030, provided the necessary investments – which is an important caveat – are made.
as i mentioned in my opening remarks, the key challenge is creating the right climate for that investment now to be made.
again, i would respectfully refer him to the fact that, in my introductory remarks, i stressed that there is an energy dialogue – perhaps that will be something to which the commissioner will return – and that there is a continuing dialogue between russia and the european union during our presidency, not just on energy matters, but on a whole range of issues.
mrs rothe raised the issue of the directive on energy and efficiency and again i hope that i have dealt with that in the course of my remarks.
mrs myller made a powerful case for renewable technologies and one for which i have great sympathy.
mr hudacký raised the issue of nuclear energy.
i would candidly and respectfully suggest that how a country meets its energy needs and the role of nuclear power within that arrangement is ultimately a decision for each member state.
mr sánchez presedo and mr liese argued the case for renewable energies and i have already said that i have some sympathy with those points.
i would simply suggest that, if he is earnest in his requirement or in his urging for a proper and frank international discussion of some of the issues that we have touched on today, then i would draw his attention to the priority that the british presidency, the british government, placed on the issue of climate change during our chairmanship of the g8 this year.
i believe it was a brave and principled decision to say that, together with international development in africa in particular, climate change would be the particular focus for the meeting in gleneagles between 6 and 8 july.
sustainable economic growth depends on access to reliable and affordable supplies of energy.
as i hope i made clear in my introductory statement, the keys to improving the functioning of the oil markets are better conditions for investment, greater market transparency and, in particular, better data, improved energy efficiency and the development of alternative technologies.
mr president, i should like to thank the european parliament for its strong interest in and activity on sustainable energy issues, where we should address all the questions – security of supply, competitiveness and environmental challenges – at the same time.
i should also like to thank the committee on industry, research and energy and its chairman, mr chichester, for the possibility to discuss in detail today some of the issues raised in plenary with the committee members.
with regard to legislative proposals, i assume that we have a good chance of finding an efficient compromise for energy end-use efficiency and an energy services directive.
i expect that during the council meetings the energy situation will be discussed in more detail.
other councils also look at issues that relate to the new situation of supply and energy.
the council considers that separate collection systems have been and will continue to be widely implemented to achieve the objectives of community directives on waste.
a number of community directives on specific waste streams provide for separate collections of wastes, especially for end-of-life products that would otherwise enter the municipal solid waste stream.
much has been achieved in member states through community legislation to meet this environmental challenge.
important hazardous waste, such as waste oils and batteries, has been tackled.
recycling and recovery targets have been set for some key complex waste flows, such as packaging, end-of-life vehicles and waste from electrical and electronic equipment.
this is particularly true with regard to achieving a specific environmental outcome requiring significant investment in infrastructure.
therefore, future initiatives on waste will need to have realistic timescales to allow the stakeholders concerned sufficient time to plan their investment.
the experience of member states shows the importance of heightening public awareness of waste-related issues.
i am confident that the commission will take full account of this when it brings forward its thematic strategy on waste.
the commission shares the view eloquently expressed in the report by mr menéndez del valle that open trade and increased inward investment are key factors in economic development, but that if such development is to be harmonious, sustainable and equitable it must take into account fundamental social needs.
i would like first to express my gratitude to mr turmes, the rapporteur on the commission communication on the share of renewable energy in the eu, as well as to all of his colleagues who contributed to this report.
i would like to emphasise that even if in the renewable sector we have made quite substantial progress, still a great deal should be done, even with the target that is for overall consumption from renewable sources such as green electricity and biomass, we are still far from fulfilling the targets we have for 2010. the commission is doing all it can to encourage and pursue the member states to stick to those targets.
it presents a cohesive and comprehensive overview of the possibilities that exist in the short and medium term as regards renewable energy.
first of all i was impressed with the broad overview of the possibilities that renewable energy allows us.
it goes to show that we can make changes in our energy mix in the future.
furthermore, i was very pleased to see the complex and systemic way that parliament is approaching energy.
you rightly say that liberalisation is linked with fair conditions for renewable electricity.
you also team energy efficiency with renewable energy.
furthermore, you argue convincingly that renewable energy is part of the global solution to our global problems on energy.
and finally, but also very importantly, you also link competitiveness, security of supply and environmental protection.
the energy potential of biomass in the union is significant and needs to be developed.
i share the view that biomass energy is intimately linked to other european policies.
in the recent commission proposal for a council decision on rural development, the commission proposed the integration of biomass and biofuels in rural development as an important new market in a sustainable agriculture.
it is obvious that direct support measures will remain essential in the future to ensure sufficient penetration of renewable energy in the market and to meet our agreed targets.
as you know, the commission aims to adopt a communication on support schemes on renewable energy sources at the end of november.
it will also address the barriers which are hampering the development of renewable energies.
these include complex licensing procedures and poor integration of renewable energy in local planning.
i once again thank the rapporteur and the committee on industry, research and energy for taking the initiative to prepare the report that allows us to have the debate today, and will help the commission to come up with appropriate initiatives.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles.
mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur on his important report.
given the significant benefits of renewable energy, the question is how can we further promote its development so that citizens in the future can enjoy its benefits?
the first is to create a more favourable policy environment for renewable energy, and here the role of governments is crucial, as, unfortunately, the big multinationals continue to invest, above all, in oil.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
the second pillar is to create an appropriate legal framework to support renewable sources.
a framework that will overcome the constraints of an energy system which, together with its legal bases, was built at a time when renewable energy was almost unknown.
the third is to rapidly scale up both public and private investment in research to develop better and cheaper renewable technologies, and the fourth is to set binding quantitative targets by 2020 for both total renewable energy production and for electricity, cooling and heating.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
advanced hybrid power plant technologies combining renewable energy sources and storage technologies should be a priority for autonomous energy systems.
in this way we can have autonomous and decentralized power plants, but also continuous production and supply of energy to the consumer.
the second issue concerns mainly solar and wind energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the energy supply in the community.
this must be our first concern if we are to have renewable energy penetration into the energy system of any country.
however, china's export aggressiveness shows that the balance of the world trade system requires converging systems, institutional transparency, converging social and environmental protection standards.
it also calls for the effective protection of intellectual and industrial property and the avoidance of economic, social and ecological dumping.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
it is therefore a key prerequisite for ensuring continuous and sustainable growth in europe, as young people are the future workforce and the future source of research skills, innovation and entrepreneurship.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the migratory flows into the european union, which have increased considerably since the 1980s, confirm the need to introduce specific measures of educational support in the schools of the member states for children whose mother tongue is different from the language of their social environment.
the action of the institutions in this context is also aimed at ensuring equal educational rights for children who speak a different language in their family environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
as you know, a number of thematic priorities – such as the knowledge economy, social cohesion and urban environment – are set out in the draft community strategic guidelines.
the debate will be opened at the uk informal council on sustainable communities on 6 december in bristol, where we will present our paper.
this paper will also respond to your request to develop and propose models and tools for sustainable urban development.
it will provide recommendations based on current good practice in promoting sustainable local communities through an integrated approach.
in addition, the thematic strategy for sustainable urban development, being prepared under the framework of the sixth environmental action programme, will be a further step in enhancing dialogue between the commission and national and local authorities.
this thematic strategy on urban environment is currently scheduled for adoption by the commission on 21 december 2005. your motion for a resolution also calls on the commission to move towards a horizontal application of the urban dimension and towards coordination between the departments of the commission that are directly or indirectly concerned with urban issues.
the uk presidency has proposed to turn urban sustainable development into a fully-fledged priority, in addition to those priorities proposed under the convergence and regional competitiveness objectives.
as you know, we believe that the urban strategy should include a wide range of policies and options in transport, environment, town and country planning, economic activity, migration policy, public health, social inclusion and security.
on the other hand, many of the most serious problems of our modern society are found in cities: severe problems of poverty and social exclusion, degradation of the natural and built environment, lack of greenery and pollution of the atmosphere, loss of local identity, increased crime, and, at the same time, racism problems are more pronounced in our cities.
urban policy should be at the heart of efforts to build a strong, competitive and sustainable europe, while maintaining social cohesion.
the efforts of all partners at local, regional, national and european level to make the most of the potential for sustainable development in cities should also be coordinated.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the european cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of pollution by gases from the atmosphere, as amended by the council directive of 18 december 1985, is a step in the right direction.
as the commission report has pointed out, there are serious shortcomings in the fight against corruption, the restructuring of public administration, the modernisation of the judicial system, the fight against piracy and infringement of intellectual property rules, the integration of the community acquis, agriculture as regards plant and animal health protection, external border control, state aid in the steel sector, the environment, nuclear safety.
issues such as animal health protection, plant health protection, the environment, nuclear safety, state aid, tax, insurance and labour dumping are also causing serious economic and social problems in the member states of the european union.
within the energy market, we have a great responsibility as a commission for looking at competition, prices and the possibilities of a guarantee not only for today, but also for the future.
the main elements are: to manage our demand for energy by measures to increase energy efficiency and energy savings; to increase the use of alternative forms of energy; to improve the transparency and predictability of oil markets; to increase the supply of oil and gas by promoting an increase of investment in production and refining capacities and, finally, effectively to manage energy disruption.
in addition, the commission is actively increasing cooperation with the european union’s main external oil suppliers through initiatives such as the european union-russia energy dialogue and the european union- organisation of petroleum exporting countries (opec) dialogue.
the commission is aware of the great responsibility in the energy sector.
mr president, the honourable member has put a number of questions, and the first question is whether there is a binding obligation on member states to collect waste by category.
the directive on hazardous waste prohibits the mixing of hazardous waste of different categories and the mixing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
other european union legislation concerning specific waste streams complements this obligation for separate collection of waste.
the waste policy is therefore a priority area of environmental legislation, and of course there are directives for various waste streams, such as the lubricants directive, the battery directive which is under discussion, the electrical and electronic waste directive, the end-of-life directive for cars, etc., which specify specific ways of sorting as well as collection and disposal.
it certainly helps, because publicity, publicity and the greatest possible awareness among citizens are important elements in finding better solutions to waste management.
and it is also the responsibility of the member states to take the appropriate measures to comply with community legislation on waste.
the european union is financing the fight against waste, which is one of the priorities of the cohesion fund.
this financing can be provided through the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund, and it is of course for disadvantaged regions and less prosperous countries in the european union which are entitled to receive corresponding funds to implement the community acquis in the field of the environment.
there are of course various other funding, for example from life, and there is going to be the new life+, for various actions, such as raising awareness among citizens about environmental issues and in particular waste.
is it possible to assess the long-term environmental, economic and social consequences of non-compliance with the relevant community legislation and to find a more effective compliance procedure than bringing member states before the ecj?
the question is whether there are other ways of dealing with this huge waste problem without going to court.
and to be honest, my greatest pleasure will be not to go to court and not have these kinds of proceedings, but through cooperation, through raising awareness among citizens, through better understanding and exchange of experiences from different countries, through the application of modern technology, we can find solutions and answers to the problems that concern different countries in the waste sector.
and of course i should tell you that within the framework of the thematic strategies which the commission is presenting at the moment, in a few days - if i remember correctly in november - we will also be presenting the thematic strategy on the prevention, reduction and recycling of waste.
it is a very important strategy, which is horizontal, holistic, which tackles the problem of waste as a whole and will certainly provide answers to many of the problems that exist and which often lead to litigation and to the courts.
i hope that in this way the waste in the european union will firstly be reduced - and this is the main objective, that is to say, produce less waste -, secondly, reused or recycled, and only if these possibilities do not exist, ending up either in incineration, preferably with energy recovery, or in landfills, which i would like to say, because they are of particular interest to greece, we do not even know how many there are, and in many cases they are a source of pollution and a deterioration of the quality of life of citizens and at the same time they create problems for biodiversity and climate change because they emit a gas which is one of the gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect.
this is a very important directive that aims at collecting in the best possible way the waste from electrical and electronic equipment, either for partial re-use, recycling or safe disposal.
i agree that it is best to prevent the creation of waste, and plastic bags create problems.
we organise seminars and visits to member states to inform them of what is happening elsewhere and how they can deal in the best possible way with the various environmental problems, giving them guidance and sometimes even financing for eligible projects.
the commission has drawn the attention of the united kingdom authorities to these concerns in a letter of formal notice issued under article 226 of the european community treaty, which was sent in march 2005. the letter of formal notice stressed the need for member states to ensure the adequacy of their collecting and treatment systems under the council directive concerning urban waste water treatment.
the commission is unable to comment on the legal advice given by the uk department for environment referred to by the honourable member, as it was not aware that such advice existed or that access to it had been refused.
of course, i shall work with you in order to help london, as you stressed in your question, avoid the embarrassment that this pollution from overflows of raw sewage would cause to the 2012 olympics.
i must repeat that our only involvement is to ensure that the requirements of the directive concerning urban waste water treatment are met.
you are right to say that these spills occurred not only during the very heavy rainfall in august 2004. according to an environment agency press release, these spills occur about 50 to 60 times a year.
the environment agency, which is an adviser to the uk government, has also reached the conclusion that the system of collection and treatment is inadequate.
the directive on urban waste water treatment is a results-based directive and so it is not my business to suggest what method the british government should choose to solve the problem.
the pstataliia plant has been fully operational since december 2004 and provides for the tertiary treatment of urban waste water discharged into the sensitive saronic basin.
in october 2002, the commission initiated infringement proceedings against greece under article 226 of the treaty on the grounds that the greek authorities had not planned the disposal of the sludge in a manner compatible with community environmental legislation.
however, this solution has some environmental problems: possible water pollution due to the discharge of sludge into the marine environment, effects due to emissions from transporting waste 21 km through a densely populated area, also a risk of contamination due to the spill of sludge during transport.
the commission notes that the waste water treatment plant in the upper liège area is located in the municipality of liège, in the province of hainaut, and that the waste water treatment plant is located in the municipality of liège.
the commission therefore considers that the method of disposal of sludge referred to above is incompatible with community environmental legislation.
the commission is assessing the interim solution proposed by the greek authorities, a kind of landfill procedure in conjunction with the operation of the upper liosian landfill, and if necessary, will certainly not hesitate to initiate legal proceedings against greece, because this is required not only by community legislation but also by the need to protect the health of citizens and the environment.
that is why the government, as of december and beyond, as it has announced, will have an alternative which i believe will undoubtedly be much better from an environmental point of view.
the commission is an important institutional actor, both in the judicial procedure on environmental matters and in the sanctioning procedure on infringements.
but i feel that there is a contradiction between being strict, being justifiably strict on violations of european environmental legislation and accepting acceptable waste management standards.
the community bureaucracy, the commission bureaucracy, should set out in a strict and binding manner standards for waste management.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a manner which is compatible with the common market.
this new approach includes, among others, a clear commitment from the commission side to promote the general principles of conservation and sustainable management of fishery resources.
major community objectives such as competitiveness, economic cohesion, sustainable development, small and mediumsized enterprises, research and innovation - in fact all the lisbon objectives - have been the victims of horizontal budget cuts by the council.
because austerity is when you cut out the redundant, when you cut out the waste, but when you cut out the investment in the future and the hope, that's not called austerity, it's called misery.
the council is aware of the importance of the role of young farmers, particularly in the development of the rural environment and environmental conservation.
but other issues are also important, such as transport, energy, the environment.
the environment should be protected as far as possible.
in 1995 we set ambitious targets because the regional environment was much more favourable.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
we must ensure, especially for children, access to education and employment, and to living in a humane environment where our states do not intervene to punish, but to help develop.
how are we going to secure a sustainable pension?
can we ensure a european pension that is sustainable?
madam president, the process of so-called globalisation is a demonstration of the barbarity of capitalist development and the imperialist imposition of capital's choices, with painful consequences for the working class, the popular strata and the environment.
let us help, as european institutions, to create the instruments to oversee the multilateral system of the world economy and to deal with the coherence and consistency between global economic, social and environmental policies.
it's called "ecumenical", a word that gave many languages the term ecology, care for the environment.
we have five years in the european union to achieve the lisbon strategy, to make europe the leading power in the knowledge economy with respect for the environment by promoting a social model that we can propose to the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not undermined by the introduction of new technologies.
today, under pressure from the chemical industry lobby - and no one here can pretend not to know this - and from certain member states, germany in the lead, we are faced with a bad compromise by the people's party, the socialists and the liberals, a compromise which, with a gun to mr sacconi's head, weakens the proposal of the committee on the environment.
mr president, commissioner, the science of chemistry and the chemical compounds produced by this science have helped people in their lives to solve problems, that is a fact, as is the fact that today we have thousands of compounds and products on the market and many of these compounds are dangerous and can cause damage to both the environment and health.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental legislation is properly enforced.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i am referring to the issues of environmental protection and public health, but also to the need to adapt to new data generated by the introduction of not only quantitative but also qualitative criteria, such as the hazard of chemical compounds.
this regulation should regulate matters relating to the protection of the environment and public health and at the same time allow the european chemical industry to adapt to the planned transition phase.
in other words, with the regulation we can have a concrete example of the practical application of the model of sustainable development, which is based on the harmonious combination of its three pillars, which are, i remind you, the protection of the environment and public health, economic growth, social cohesion and the increase in employment.
the synthesis of new compounds that are environmentally and health-friendly, is the key to achieving a harmonious synchronisation of the three pillars of sustainable development.
mr president, the benefits for public health, the environment, the production of safer and more human-friendly products, the benefits of developing new innovative products, the protection of the european chemical industry against competitors from third countries, improved transparency, increased consumer confidence in the industry, the benefits for small and mediumsized enterprises which are mainly users rather than producers of chemicals, the protection of the health of workers in the chemical industry, the reduction of accidents, a predictable regulatory and regulatory system, reasonable implementation costs.
this is an industry that employs many hundreds of thousands of our european citizens, but it is important that the burdens are consistent with meeting our shared goals of protecting human health and the environment, and we believe that the emerging views of parliament, the council and commission do this.
it would also be wrong to fail to do what is possible to achieve the best for the health and environment of our citizens.
first of all, i would like to thank all those who took part in the debate tonight, which was very important, very interesting and which will contribute to the adoption of the proposal we are discussing for the benefit of the health of european citizens and the environment.
the commission fully supports the efforts of the international community and of president ahtisaari to prepare and work out a balanced and sustainable settlement in kosovo and we shall obviously work closely with president ahtisaari to achieve this objective.
it is of paramount importance that the rights of minorities and the protection of cultural and historical sites are ensured in order to achieve a sustainable settlement that facilitates stability and the european perspective for the whole region.
the commission has several instruments at its disposal to contribute to the sustainable development of regions, including in particular the european employment strategy, the european social fund for investment in human capital, the european regional development fund for investment in infrastructure, productive investment and the development of internal potential.
we are also working together with two ministries – the energy and trade ministries – on institution-building.
we also want to set up joint working groups in areas of common interest such as trade and energy.
so in this way we are helping to create the greenhouse.
i'll give you two numbers: the united states emits more pollution than three quarters of the un member states.
new york state emits as much pollution as all of africa.
we have a huge climate problem, and it's not limited by borders.
we all need to understand that the threat of bin laden's terrorism is far less than the environmental threat posed by the americans.
such a solution would help create the climate we believe to be necessary for a better relationship with europe generally and the international community as a whole.
the structural fund supports measures to improve employment opportunities and to develop human resources and integration into the labour market in order to promote a high level of employment, equality between men and women, sustainable development and economic and social cohesion.
in 2007 to 2013, this money will focus on increasing the competitiveness of european agriculture, food and forestry, land management and the environment, and quality of life and diversification in rural areas.
these are economic, social, environmental and, above all, developmental benefits.
a more competitive environment should allow eu carriers to compete and grow.
if we look at the majority of shipping lines, price-fixing is becoming less and less relevant to their business strategies as they seek more effective ways of ensuring their survival in a changing and challenging environment.
the eu's decisions for the wto ministerial conference are characterized by the imperialists' desire, especially the us and the eu, through the rules of international trade, to plunder the markets of developed and developing countries at the expense of the peoples and with devastating effects on the environment.
the aim is to exert pressure and create a climate for the overthrow of socialism and popular conquests, so as to create the conditions for the plundering of the country.
we are also trying to improve the unacceptable, instructive and offensive imperative for a member state, in particular in paragraphs 6 and 11. the amendment to paragraph 11 in particular highlights the more general problem of excessive urbanisation of the mediterranean coast in general and highlights the general nature of environmental protection.
with the result that was negotiated in this political environment, in which we all participated, we have achieved the optimum possible outcome.
in response to mr swoboda’s remarks, the commission will discuss the review of the sustainable development strategy in its meeting this afternoon.
this represents an integrated approach to the objectives of economic prosperity, environmental standards and social cohesion.
i think that, when it comes to combating climate change, the commission is showing leadership on the world scene.
several actions undertaken by the commission in the field of transport and energy demonstrate the importance attached to people with special needs.
also, given his concern for the environment, i am surprised that he did not pay due tribute to the work of margaret beckett, on behalf of the european union, in persevering to secure agreement during what i judge to have been a hugely significant conference on climate change in montreal, just last week.
the question of environmental protection, the question of external border control, the question of the fight against organised crime, nuclear safety and food safety are also issues of concern and interest to european citizens.
i think that bulgaria should honour the commitment it made when it signed the accession treaty and close units 3 and 4. at the same time, however, i believe that bulgaria needs help to fill the energy gap that will be created, such help as is being given to slovakia, as i am informed, so that it too can fulfil its obligations in the field of nuclear energy.
let us make them an important instrument to promote fisheries policy, sustainable development, respect for the environment, ecosystems and people!
we can only hope that the commission will help to complete a pan-european network of women fishermen at the next conference in 2006. not only the european fisheries fund but also the structural funds and other programmes such as femme and leader can become tools for specific actions, alongside educational and vocational skills development, the development of adaptability, research programmes on the impact of restructuring of the fishing and agricultural industries, innovation in production, the promotion of environmentally sensitive and biodiversity-friendly consumption.