but we must see that our interests converge on the most important issues, the war on terrorism, the fight against nuclear proliferation, the doha process, but also on the issue of climate change.
the biggest challenge for our future is the decrease in natural resources such as clean air, pure water and a healthy environment.
a high grade of biodiversity is crucial for a healthy living environment, for food security and for quality of life in general.
i come from hungary, where the government was able to override the preliminary agreement with the european union and divert huf 8 billion from agro-environmental protection to direct payments to agriculture.
mr president, as regards the financial perspectives, the situation is very worrying in many areas, especially in rural development and environmental protection.
today, there is no doubt that progress in the use of renewable energy sources is needed in the light of climate change and energy security.
i therefore support the creation of a renewable energy conference to address the different situations of member states and to seek consensus.
the commission should do all it can to ensure that member states contribute more financially to development and that external costs are reflected in the energy prices charged.
i am also concerned by the fact that over the last 20 years, research and technological development expenditure in the field of renewable energy has typically decreased at national and european level.
in the interest of subsidies, i propose that the eu's 7th framework programme for research and technological development, starting in 2007, include a separate budget line for research and development programmes in the field of renewable energy.
european socialist women are ready to fight with all their energy against this conservative backlash in the us.
let us use the new york meeting to inject new energy and commitment at eu and national level: legislation, evaluation and accountability.
it is true that the best way to combat poverty is to increase economic competitiveness and create jobs, but this must be closely linked to social cohesion, education, research and development and environmental protection.
natura 2000 is an ecological network designed to protect natural habitats and plant and animal species of community importance.
the european parliament has a responsibility to the citizens of the union to stop the decline of biodiversity in europe.
in the people's party and the environment committee, we have welcomed the european commission's proposal to provide financial support for the natura 2000 network.
this would ensure that member states receive adequate funding and that programmes to conserve biodiversity are not at risk of being outpaced by other, more economically competitive projects.
we have consulted many environmental ngos in brussels and at home and have built their suggestions into our amendments.
the socialist group is committed to providing a clean natural environment for every european citizen.
on monday evening, the amendment was carried unanimously in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we support the report as it has already been accepted by the environment committee, and ask other groups to also say ‘no’ to those who try to start cutting the budget for nature and the future of europe’s environmental assets.
mr president, i mentioned in my speech the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, of which i am a member.
on behalf of the pse group, madam president, the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice is a historic task, and the review period is a historic one, as the eu became a union of 25 in 2004 and progress must be made in a new political environment of security and justice.
as the hungarian representative, i must highlight the series of transitional exemptions requested by romania in the field of environmental protection, including those that directly affect the state of hungary's natural resources.
anyone who has spoken to citizens of the new member states - not politicians, as this is not their problem, but citizens - knows the administrative burden, costs, time and energy involved in obtaining a visa to the united states.
the proposal for a directive would continue to prohibit direct discharges of pollutants into groundwater and i believe it is important that any permitted indirect discharges take account of other pollutants affecting the environment in the area concerned.
fortunately, my amendment to this has been favourably received by the environment committee.
improving groundwater quality requires changing current agricultural practices and eliminating pollution from, for example, abandoned landfills, which requires action plans and resources.
the need for these to be stated now is that member states should take this important environmental task seriously enough.
this is necessary for the health of those who want to relax and exercise, as well as for other environmental considerations.
this will prevent us from passing legislation that ignores environmental conditions out of pure goodwill, which will make tourism impossible in many regions and deprive millions of people of the experience of otherwise safe bathing and sports.
it is a priority for us to provide a clean and safe environment for our citizens.
a good environmental policy goes together with proper information on environmental matters, including pollution, possible dangers and the effects of environmental accidents.
former socialist countries of central and eastern europe had a certain level of environmental policy, but it was strictly understood as a state policy without any kind of public participation.
the lack of proper information or environmental ngos led to degree of mistrust about actual environmental performance.
even basic information on pollution was labelled a state secret.
the same applies to gmo products, pollution release, the transfer register directive, etc.
we look forward to mutually beneficial energy cooperation with no added political motivation.
there is no alternative to a strategic partnership between the european union and the russian federation that is reliable, sustainable and mutually advantageous.
as a member of the european parliament's committee on the environment, i would like to point out that the situation has not improved since our visit six months ago.
but there is a good chance that we are now taking a step in the right direction, in line with the rules and objectives that have been discussed and that will be discussed in the future, taking into account the aspects of competition and sustainability.
but we must also agree that there is a great need to promote security of supply, fair prices and sustainability, because many european citizens are not yet feeling the benefits of the single market.
i would like to draw particular attention to the wide range of regulatory issues covered by the proposed regulation, ranging from consumer harm, product liability, road accidents and environmental damage to good repute.
the european standardisation of the responsibility required by the international environmental catastrophe is particularly important to me as a hungarian representative.
meanwhile, the environmental impact assessment and environmental impact statement are integrated into the project cycle, with a focus on the social and employment consequences of investments.
for bulgaria, progress in the fields of justice and home affairs, the environment and agriculture will be of decisive importance.
similarly, in the case of romania, progress in the fields of justice and home affairs, especially the reform of the judiciary system and the fight against corruption, competition and state aid, the environment and agriculture will be crucial.
it can offer a solution to so many unresolved problems, thereby freeing many romanian roma and non-roma children from the danger of poverty, or thereby protect the environment, so that the issue of verespatak hopefully can be solved in a european way.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for standing up at second reading for a strict regulation that takes account of the values and interests of people and the environment.
we urgently need this directive to cover mining waste containing cyanide and heavy metals and other waste which is harmful to the environment, even in terms of its physical quantity.
consider the disaster in the great mine of romania in 2000, called by some simply the cyanide tsunami, or the pollution in spain in 1998. in both cases, large quantities of hazardous substances were released into the living waters, causing enormous environmental damage even to neighbouring countries.
it strengthens the permitting procedure, puts greater emphasis on prevention, requires the development of a detailed waste management plan, increases the availability of information on mining waste, extends the financial guarantee for the activity to a larger area than before, and requires mining companies to ensure the complete rehabilitation and monitoring of the area even after leaving the area.
however, i believe that the most important and most forward-looking thing is that, in view of the recent accession of romania and bulgaria and the large-scale mining projects being prepared and under way there, which also endanger the environment and neighbouring countries, the new directive should be taken into account by the new members as soon as it enters into force.
i therefore ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the amendments which are strict and aim at protecting the environment, thus taking a big step towards safeguarding our environment and avoiding disasters.
mr president, five years ago there was an appalling incident of cyanide pollution on the river tisza caused by a gold mine in baia mare, romania.
before this incident, the term ‘environmental policy’ had been nothing more than a strange phrase for many ordinary people living on the two banks of the river – for peasants, shepherds and fishermen.
after 30 january 2000, they understood the meaning of ‘environmental policy’: to prevent pollution of this kind, in which 100 000 m3 of hazardous sludge leaked into the river tisza, destroying its flora and fauna.
i do not like to speak in terms of money when we are talking about the value of nature, but the centre for environmental studies estimated that the loss of revenue suffered by commercial fishing and tourism was around eur 18 million in hungary alone, not including the loss of natural heritage or environmental damage.
mr sjöstedt did an excellent job: as well as writing a good report, he went to baia mare, romania, where he visited the site of the pollution.
i have tabled three amendments which were supported by the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and i hope they will also be supported by this plenary session.
my aims were to clarify the requirements of the directive by giving references to the water framework directive and the groundwater directive, to prevent the discharge of environmentally harmful mining waste into any body of water and, last but not least, to promote waste prevention as the primary means of waste management.
the creation of a regulatory environment to safeguard the health and safety of european workers is a clear obligation of european legislation that has existed for decades, and is also required by article 137 of the treaty of rome.
the reason why the risk types are not listed in the text of the standard is that the range of risks is constantly changing and expanding in the context of environmental changes, but the employer's attention must nevertheless cover all risks.
this is what we must do if we are to achieve the main objectives of the lisbon strategy, namely to increase competitiveness, create more jobs, strengthen social cohesion, solidarity and solidarity, and ensure sustainable development.
cooperation between regions, cohesion, contributes to strengthening integration, creates the foundations for sustainable development in all regions and provides opportunities to apply best practice everywhere.
mr. president, i have to ask you... as chair of the parliament's intergroup on sustainable development and transport, i welcome all legislation and programmes at community level that promote the development of the rail network and the spread of environmentally friendly transport.
this increases the attractiveness of the railway by reducing the burden on the road, which is welcome and should be supported from an environmental point of view.
competition that serves both the interests of citizens and the environment.
(applause)
mr. president, i have to ask you... although the world market price of crude oil has nearly tripled in the past three years, mankind's greed for energy shows no sign of abating.
most eu member states rely on energy sources from distant lands, and we are therefore dependent on other states, often not so democratic.
if we do not act, the growing demand for fuels will lead to ever more polluting fuels, as clean oil and natural gas will be depleted, with ever more serious environmental consequences.
i therefore welcome the commission's five-point plan, in particular its part on energy efficiency and alternative energy sources.
we must reduce oil consumption in energy production, but especially in transport.
it is important to increase support for research in europe on non-oil energy production, both at community and member state level.
the support of iter for nanotechnology in solar energy, biotechnology for biofuels, mux for the atomic bomb or thermonuclear energy production is essential from an environmental and economic point of view to stop the alarm bells ringing.
it is welcome news that major oil-consuming and polluting countries such as the us, china, india, australia, japan and south korea signed an agreement in laos in june of this year, something like a "kyoto-like" agreement, to develop and distribute cleaner energy and technologies, because as global as the problem is, so must the solution be.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr turmes, who has outlined the future of renewable energy along the broad lines of the lisbon strategy.
i agree that in the coming decades, renewable energies can have a positive impact on job creation, environmental protection, market integration, research and development, innovation and sustainable economic development within a coherent european energy policy.
however, i would point out that renewable energy technologies are currently very expensive in both absolute terms and in terms of efficiency.
in contrast, in many member states, especially in the current circumstances, energy prices are a sensitive issue, which may even threaten social cohesion.
that is why i think it is very important, before embarking on an overly ambitious renewable energy policy, to promote cohesion between regions, member states and micro-regions and the integration of the european energy market through a comprehensive energy policy based on a reasonable balance.
and by doing so, we're giving them the opportunity to have all the things that my colleagues and i have been protesting about, in the areas of environmental protection, workers' rights, counterfeiting and so on, reconsidered in china.
beside the disastrous social and economic consequences of this deterioration, environmental aspects should also be addressed.
given the current economic climate, emergence of new economic competitors, investing in people becomes even more important.
lifelong learning has therefore a key role in developing an integrated strategy for employment and particularly for promoting a well-trained workforce which is able to adapt to the continiously changing market environment.
in spite of that, i hope that the excellent climate of cooperation that has characterised relations between our institutions up to now will continue to help find a mutually satisfying compromise.
neighboring countries are seriously concerned about the state of the environment.
we expect the highest environmental standards here.
the directive on mining waste is currently being negotiated.
the directive, which was initiated by the commission following the cyanide mine disaster in romania in 2000. at that time, drinking water supplies and the environment were seriously polluted in romania, ukraine, slovakia, and hungary.
the protection of the environment, the prevention of damage or the compensation for damage caused by it is a fundamental right and duty in a civilized european country.
this requires strong international institutions to ensure sustainable development.
the european parliament's committee on industry, research and energy is keeping a close eye on the transition from analogue to digital terrestrial broadcasting in europe.
it is therefore essential to ensure that the most effective way of helping smes is to simplify and make the eu regulatory environment more transparent for them.
we therefore hope that the commission will make progress in both the area of competitiveness and the creation of an internal market guaranteeing growth, and at the same time in the area of a social regulatory environment based on european values.
we were guided by the principles of the environment, health and safety at work when we tabled our amendments as members of the committee on industry.
one that protects both human health and the environment, reduces animal testing, while preserving the competitiveness of the chemical industry, increasing transparency, strengthening the internal market, but also complying with wto rules.
the ultimate goal of reach is to replace substances that are harmful to health and the environment.
i also oppose attempts to water down registration, supporting the position of the environmental protection committee.
i believe that this is the only way to ensure comprehensive protection for our children and the environment.
the second is the security of energy supply, to which the population and industry have the same right in slovakia as in any other member state of the union.
let's not forget that we decided not so long ago, for example, that 20% of our energy should come from renewable sources by 2020, so it's not the same as it used to be.
the third is the fight against energy dependency.
global warming does not mean actual warming in every single part of the world.
we simply use too much fossil energy.
we have to find allies for this goal among broadminded politicians and citizens in the us who understand the importance of sustainable development.
in order to reduce emissions we need a strong shift to public transport.
renewable energies are developing in some countries, but in other member states only a few steps have been taken.
i think that semi-solutions such as carbon storage cannot be a solution for the future.
instead of hiding our growing emissions temporarily, we have to reduce them.
if a nuclear power station is to be closed down for any reason it should be replaced only by renewable energies.
closing nuclear power stations and using more fossil energy would be a kind of collective suicide.
the union needs both the harmonisation of research and development, a significant increase in spending on education, the liberalisation of services and a common european energy policy.
this would not mean new community policies, but it would help to improve cooperation in energy and research and development.
we must also seek to integrate animal welfare, environmental protection and geographical origin into the wto's agricultural trade regulatory system, because this is in the interests of european farmers and european consumers.
in hungary, there is a constant media response and the population living in the upper part of the raba is particularly sensitive to pollution, as fishing and water tourism are important in this beautiful and wild part of the raba.
our growing use of energy, and indeed renewable energy, and our need for mobility, means that we are using more and more of them.
with our current waste technology, these materials are burned or dumped, eventually entering our bodies, where they accumulate and cause serious diseases.
in our country, the latter system works very well with other recyclable materials, but this may also be a matter of different waste cultures in different member states.
i think that is not sustainable either, and each member state must take care of not only the collection but also the disposal.
in some member states, such as hungary, the collection of used batteries and accumulators is a new activity but also a long-term environmental investment.
in our country, where carbon zinc cells still account for 40-50% of the market due to weak consumer purchasing power, distributors would not be able to anticipate and consumers would not be able to afford the costs of forced recall at too high a level.
this would not only lead to the disappearance of businesses and jobs, but also encourage the already large-scale black market imports of batteries, which are increasingly dangerous to our environment.
we need rules that can ensure that environmental objectives are met in the long term and that jobs in the industrial and distribution sectors concerned are preserved over five to ten years, even with the possibility of a review within five years.
in the light of these forward-looking and very positive results, i would like to point out that this project is only the first step in improving energy efficiency.
upgrading these apartments one by one will be essential to modernise energy efficiency.
the key to this is to prevent consumers from having to pay the cost of modernisation, which the public pays for by saving energy.
we spent 15 million euros on this in 2004, 32 million in 2005. it will be very important for us to bear in mind, when drafting the eu budget for 2007-13, that more than half a million mostly modest households in hungary alone will need eu financial support to achieve the important energy efficiency targets set out in the draft now under discussion.
this report, which is drawn up under a codecision procedure, covers all areas of implementation, from the establishment of the legal environment to the definition of the financial instruments, including the possibility of participation by the member states and ngos.
the roma, the environment, the restitution of property, the corruption?