under this agreement, the european union is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8%, as compared to 1990 levels, by the year 2012. i welcome the enactment of the eu emissions trading directive that will help to ensure that the european union complies with the serious international obligations under the kyoto accord.
america is responsible, as we all know, for over 24% of all greenhouse gas emissions on an annual basis.
california – the largest state in america in population terms – has already enacted the pavley tax, which is designed to reduce the use of greenhouse gases by 22% in that state by 2012. i am glad to see that it is being followed by other states.
at present 19 american states are pursuing this initiative designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it is clear that more and more american businesses and citizens are becoming positively disposed to tackling climate change.
the european union must use every diplomatic avenue open to it to coax and persuade the american government to introduce measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we need a coordinated international approach to tackle climate change.
the success i found in buenos aires was in discussing with other colleagues – particularly the huge numbers of representatives from political and corporate america and other american bodies – how much support we have on the ground, both in the united states and in australia, as distinct from the bush administration's position and, indeed, the australian premier's position on the kyoto protocol and climate change.
there is huge and growing support from nine or ten different states in america, and even from some of the energy and fuel corporations and corporate america generally.
an even greater emphasis on cost-benefit reports and transparent pricing of the environmental consequences of climate change and global warming will help to convince those markets still doubting the economic significance of kyoto.
(the speaker spoke in irish) i want to take this opportunity to welcome the buenos aires conference on climate change as a serious endeavour in tackling global warming.
the united nations framework convention on climate change remains the cornerstone of the international response to environmental changes.
i speak in support of the resolution and wish to commend the role that the european union has played and continues to play in bringing progressive responses to combating climate change.
i would like specifically to express my concern that the united states – the world's largest carbon dioxide emitter – was not prepared to discuss further approaches to reducing climate change, although it is heartening to note that a number of individual states in the us have been involved in various climate change initiatives.
however, in the longer term, if we are to successfully wrestle with the issue of climate change then a much greater effort is required by individual countries, and indeed by industry.
the targets set for stabilising concentrations of greenhouse gases are hardly ambitious, but are of fundamental importance to bringing about a marked decrease in the levels of emissions in our atmosphere.
i welcome the resolution's assertion that global emissions should be reduced by half by 2050 in order to contain global warming.
climate change remains a crucial issue facing humanity which requires a global response, perhaps nowhere more so than in europe.
a recent report by the european environment agency warned that europe is warming more quickly than the rest of the world, with potentially devastating consequences including more frequent heat waves, flooding, rising sea levels and melting glaciers.
the report paints a bleak picture of a europe devastated by changing climate.
we need a global plan to cap concentrations of critical greenhouse gases.
setting more ambitious targets to cap the concentration of greenhouse gases requires a real commitment and will require major changes to manufacturing processes, to the manner in which energy is generated and indeed to our collective lifestyle.
four european treaties in less than 15 years have resulted in many undoubted european successes: the single market, the euro, the accession of eastern european countries, rising environmental standards, greater equality between women and men, and anti-poverty and full employment strategies, to name but a few.
these include: environmental issues, justice and security matters, migration and integration affairs, fisheries, education, culture, youth exchanges and transport security.
i feel that this is an issue at which eu governments should look carefully so as to ensure that they can build the necessary infrastructure projects in the transport, energy and telecommunications fields.
finally, the european parliament has extensive powers of codecision to deal with environmental and public health issues.
secondly, in formulating these proposals, have you also looked at the use of alternative industry or energy, particularly with respect to the use of sugar beet in biofuels/bioenergy?
if employers are going to use the energy, enthusiasm and cheap, unquestioning labours of young people, the least we can do is to require employers to ensure that teenage workers are safe.
it is also true that focusing on the economic agenda does not mean that we are downgrading other agendas, be this the environment or the social agenda.
apart from the obvious benefit of bio-ethanol as an alternative energy source and its potential contribution to a cleaner environment, some of the by-products produced would also be of value to the fertiliser and animal feed sectors.
in reality their lives will be made even more miserable, as the barons grab land and destroy the environment in pursuit of profit.
we must insist on the right to take part in all decisions made about our environment.
with that in mind, could you give me an assurance that no stone will be left unturned by your directorate-general, and the other directorates involved including research, energy, transport, etc., to ensure that all necessary research and evaluation is carried out to establish the viability of bioethanol produced from sugar beet?
furthermore, do you agree with me that in view of the frightening developments in world climate change and the constant rise in fuel prices, this research must be done sooner rather than late?
finally, madam commissioner, would it not be rewarding for you and all of us to think our farmers could and would seriously contribute to controlling climate change by alternative use of agricultural land the use of alternative and renewable energy resources?
i listened with interest to the commissioner’s reply to my colleague gay mitchell on this issue, in particular taken together with question 45, which dealt with the eur 6 billion of state aid by the british government for the restructuring of british energy.
closed periods should be the same in areas with the same climate conditions.
junk food, chemicals, pollution and addictions are doing our immune systems no favours.
monies are being used to improve basic infrastructures in the field of transport, environment, energy and telecommunications.
– mr president, with your permission i will also be representing mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the oral question before us was tabled by my colleague mr florenz and we also have a motion for resolution further to that oral question on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the eu strategy for the punta del este conference on persistent organic pollutants.
pops are organic chemicals that break down very slowly in the environment and accumulate in our bodies; indeed they are in the tissues of every human being on the planet.
once pops are released into the environment it is almost impossible to predict where they will end up, so we have to apply the precautionary principle, but most importantly take steps to restrict their use and their placing on the market generally.
although it is a very toxic substance, the benefit still outweighs the risk when your child is less likely to die of persistent organic pollution poisoning than of malaria.
however, we must double our efforts to find an alternative to ddt because huge damage is being done to humans – it is biocumulative – and to our environment by our need to look after the children who are here today.
commissioner, i say this regardless of precedent or quoting interinstitutional agreements, because i would like to say yet again on the record that, just a few weeks after you were appointed, commissioner, at the conference of the parties in buenos aires in relation to climate change, cop 10, you made great strides in including the members of the european parliament, both before and after various meetings, in terms of full briefings.
as to the issue of climate, all i can say is that in ireland we do not have a climate, we have weather.
and if irish farmers were to follow the letter of the directive and spread slurry when allowed, they would cause pollution rather than prevent it.
we must respect differences in climate and soil type.
it never fitted properly, because we did not respect the differences in member states and we did not trust member states to monitor their own pollution in that area.
monitoring of irish groundwater by the environmental protection agency shows that there is no widespread contamination of individual aquifers.
the nitrates directive fails to take account of climate or soil conditions in member states.
mr president, on a point of order, last night we held a debate in this house based on two parliamentary questions tabled by the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in relation to the eu delegation to the pops conference to be held in punta del este next week.
i would like an explanation as to why parliamentary questions tabled by the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety were ignored by the council.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i am the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism on the general rules for the granting of financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport networks and energy.
i support the environment committee's rejection of the proposed quality category being "sufficient" rather than proper.
ireland achieves about 98% compliance with the current directive, but it is clear that not enough is being done to ensure proper standards in water quality, and environmental standards generally.
last month's ruling of the ecj that ireland is in breach of the eu's main waste management directive represented a damning indictment of the government’s environmental record.
from this shabby performance we have more than enough evidence that standards of environmental controls are far from good enough and i hope today's adoption of the maaten report leads to further pressure for improvement.
madam president, i should like to welcome commissioner kyprianou here this evening and say that we look forward to welcoming him to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
when the european council meets next week, it – and the commission – will need to bear in mind that driving forward with market reforms without strengthening the democratic, social and environmental dimension of europe, will feed the current crisis, and indeed, that strengthening nationalism will destroy europe.
down the years they have given us security of basic food supplies, they have contributed to protecting the environment, and they have promoted rural interests.
the council of ministers acknowledged, inter alia, that the economic, ecological and social relevance of the forest sector in the eu and the contribution that forest and forestry can provide to the lisbon objectives of sustainable economic growth and competitiveness, as well as to the göteborg objectives of safeguarding the quantity and quality of the national resource base.
the people within europe today did not vote against more jobs, did not vote against better social protection, did not vote against better trade, did not vote against better community development programmes, did not vote against giving more aid to the developing world, did not vote against protection for our environment, did not vote against ensuring sustainable development in fisheries and other industries.
i voted against amendment 3 because the lisbon strategy was originally based on a tripod of social, environmental and economic issues.
in its review both the social and environment legs of the lisbon strategy have been demoted in favour of an eu brand of competitiveness.
this is a recipe for social and economic stagnation and environmental disaster.
irish farmers are already struggling to survive in an economic climate that has been made artificially difficult.
we make tyres with them, but we also create them when we burn waste.
the irish government is insisting that a network of waste incinerators, some for toxic waste, be created in my country, thus introducing an explosion of pahs into our water, air, soil, plants and into the cells of irish citizens where the benzenes and dioxins can wreak havoc.
opinion is greatly divided on the effectiveness and the long-term sustainability of the common agricultural policy, but one of its most ambitious aims is to support and sustain the european union’s rural communities, which are under serious threat.
we live in a world where half a million people move from a rural environment to an urban environment every single week.
in 1970, 63% of the world's population lived in a rural environment, in 2020 it will be 45 per cent.
mr trichet, only a few weeks ago you called upon european consumers to open up their purses and spend more, but there is not enough certainty in the current economic climate to facilitate the surge in spending that you call for.
such an environment does not cultivate consumer confidence, domestic demand or domestic growth.
the predominant risk to growth is the high energy prices.
we need to look at the long-term energy issue from the perspective of economic viability and sustainability.
real energy alternatives are needed to combat this.
irish and european industries need to be assisted in turning a declining sugar industry into a profitable alternative energy source, such as biofuel.
such measures, mr trichet, will assist in creating economic stability, environmental sustainability and consumer confidence.
all policies are interdependent and no economy should have a higher rate of dependency on any one energy source and no amount of increase or decrease in the interest rate can change that fact.
any pr or information campaigns will be an uphill struggle, a waste of money and time, unless they are in the context of sound economic management.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development.– mr president, the full objectives of the european fisheries fund are commendable and clear: firstly, adjustment of fishing effort and better protection of the marine environment; secondly, aquaculture processing and marketing; thirdly, promoting collective interests, such as measures intended to protect aqua, aquatic fauna, fishing ports and the development of new markets; fourthly, sustainable development of coastal fishing areas.
secondly, i am disappointed that this report ignores an amendment adopted by the committee on regional development, that 25% of the community financial contribution should be set aside for axis 4: the sustainable development of coastal fishing areas.
the emphasis, as the commissioner said, has to be on sustainability: protecting the aquatic environment so that this will happen, protecting the existing fishing communities that are so under threat.
the cancellation of all debt can only be effective if international aid is continued at a sustainable level.
mr president, since 1992 life – the financial instrument for the environment – has been the major vehicle of european community environment policy.
it comprises three funds, for nature, environment and third countries.
where our shared environmental heritage is concerned, the financing must fit the policy, not vice versa.
the buck stops nowhere if not with us here in the european parliament, where, through the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we are co-legislators with the council.
we bear equal responsibility for maintaining and strengthening our efforts to prevent biodiversity loss and environmental degradation.
commissioner, can i ask that in seven years’ time the red squirrel be added to that list of biodiversity successes?
without designated, ring-fenced funding specifically earmarked for the environment, we will not achieve our environmental policy objectives.
the current ‘integrated approach’ to financing environmental policy being proposed by the commission, whereby funding will come from rural development funding and structural funds, worries me deeply and i think it simply will not work.
let us be realistic, there will always be something more immediately important than protecting the environment.
if properly financed, life + will give us the means to promote our special areas of conservation and thereby promote biodiversity in europe, which is being lost at an alarming rate.
in ireland, as in many other places, we cannot begin to deal with the problem of deteriorating human health or clean up our environment without tackling the problem of old mines and the waste that was left behind when the mines were closed and the mining companies dissolved.
animals and, most importantly, people in the area suffer from an incredible range – a tragic range – of diseases, the kind that demonstrate an environmental attack on the immune system.
a further problem is that one of the biggest industries in the west of ireland is a company that ships mining waste into ireland.
i welcome this council proposal and the european parliament report as an opportunity for legal clarity in the area of waste extraction but also as a logical way to combat the very large volumes of waste from the extractive industries.
it is fundamental that the eu and its member states need to focus on the problem of this type of waste and the protection of our environment via requirements on members states and their industries to have waste management plans; to have inventories of closed waste facilities; to make financial guarantees to national competent authorities for rehabilitation and post-clean up operations; to apply monitoring and management controls to prevent water and soil pollution, all of which are consistent with the "polluter pays" principle.
balance is required however when voting on a certain number of amendments which would impose a large and disproportionate number of unwarranted burdens on aggregate industry without benefiting the environment or society.
we need to do some serious soul-searching and serious research, not just into drugs and that kind of profitable research, but into children's growth and immune system development, and identify the new factors in our environment, in our food, our birthing and child-rearing practices, in our medical practices and in our lifestyles, and find the culprits that are sickening and even killing our children.
from my own perspective, i am particularly interested in the promotion of sustainable tourism, for a number of reasons.
in today's economic climate there is a growing need for detailed analysis of the effects of recession and other financial shocks on national economies and the eu.
we all are faced with the challenge of rational energy usage.
alternative energy sources are vital for our future.
our farmers, who are guardians of the rural environment, could and would seriously contribute to controlling climate change by alternative use of agricultural land for the production of alternative and renewable sources.
i suppose there has never been a better time for a report on renewable energy.
and all the while, if you look at rural areas of the european union, where much of the renewable energies will come from, they are screaming out for sustainable alternative enterprises.
it is deplorable, in my view, that the eu is unlikely to meet its 12% renewable energy consumption target by 2010. it is obvious that in some member states there is neither the will nor the inclination to take seriously the need to generate renewable energy, while others are forging ahead.
as for the whole area of biomass production – this so-called sleeping giant of renewable energies – which the commissioner has just mentioned, i am pleased to see that we will have an action plan in this area.
the contribution of the common agricultural policy towards renewable energy production must be recognised in both biofuels and biomass.
renewable energy can assist rural areas by providing diversification options, securing farm income and generating jobs.
but incentives are required to make sure that the many renewable options reach their full potential.
specifically, taxation policy must not hinder the expansion of renewable energy.
both must be sustainable and provide incomes.
i agree that the rural development policy in the future must have as its priority the promotion of renewable energy.
i will finish by saying that yesterday in ireland, 60 000 people were at a ploughing championship, many of whom were talking about this whole area of renewable energies, and one researcher, who has worked tirelessly for 20 years, said to me: 'at last, i think, our time has come'.
(applause)
mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on a highly informative report on the 21 types of renewable energy, which will play an ever-increasing role in the 21st century, whether from a climate-change perspective or that of the security of supply of fossil fuels and increasing prices.
my own country, ireland, is uniquely placed for the development of green energy and green fuel: we have the technological base, the climate and amongst the strongest wind and waves in europe off our atlantic coast.
just yesterday our minister announced a new scheme to support another 400 megawatts of renewable capacity.
this will totally distort competition in a market that is already stacked against independent renewable generators.
the 1999 act, which set up the irish commission for energy regulation, had an in-built provision for ministerial policy directions to be cut off in 2002. conveniently the author of that act is now head of the irish commission for energy regulation, which has carte blanche to regulate without any government input or supervision.
it is essential that the commission does its utmost to enforce the terms of trade agreements where exporters to the eu comply with international norms on workers' rights and environmental standards.
we must tackle our dependence on oil, diversify our energy sources, promote energy conservation measures, develop renewable energy sources.
every member state should contribute by assessing its domestic energy needs and how best it can move towards sustainable energy use.
the most logical response to higher oil prices is to switch to using alternative energy sources and focus on the use of renewable energies to promote energy efficiency.
bearing in mind that 40% of energy usage is for the purpose of warming or cooling our homes member states should urgently introduce incentives for green energy solutions.
it is also ironic that we are taking away the vat reductions at the same time as the eu is requiring and encouraging energy efficiency in houses.
if we are going to make houses more energy efficient we need to be able to do very labour-intensive building, and renovation, and we are making it more, not less, expensive.
are we serious about lowering our domestic energy use?
the background is that the fluorinated gases were introduced in the nineties to replace the ozone-depleting cfcs and hcfcs.
as the debate on climate change developed following the un framework convention on climate change, the harmful impact of these fluorinated gases, owing to their high global warming potential or gwp, became recognised as a major contributor – 5% and rising – to the ‘greenhouse effect’.
of the six greenhouse gases listed in the annex to the 1997 kyoto protocol, three are fluorinated gases.
whereas the original commission proposal to parliament was in the form of one regulation with a single market legal base – article 95 – the council reached a common position which took the form of two separate texts: a directive based on article 95 and a regulation based on a dual legal base consisting of articles 175 and 95. the rationale for the split of the commission proposal into two different texts was to move all the requirements relating to emissions from air conditioning in motor vehicles from the proposed regulation to the framework directive for type-approval of motor vehicles, directive 70/156/eec.
as far as the mobile air conditioning or mac directive is concerned, i am of the opinion that a balance has to be struck between, on the one hand, being technology-prescriptive in relation to the global warming potential of the gases to be allowed according to the directive and, on the other hand, promoting the development of alternative environmental technologies.
as it now stands, the ban in the directive applies to gases with a global warming potential higher than 150, meaning that hfc-152a – which has a global warming potential of about 120 – can still be used.
by coming down from the present position to 150 gwp, there is at least a ten-fold decrease – 1000% – in emissions and there would be negligible extra benefit – about 2.6% – in setting a gwp threshold at 50. i know some colleagues are attached to this proposal, but it would be hard to defend it at world trade level because of this insignificant extra environmental benefit and because of this it could be perceived as a technical trade barrier.
to reiterate, what is important is that, by adopting this directive, we are blocking the use of hfc-134a, which has a global warming potential 10 times higher than hfc 152a.
with regard to the phase-out dates proposed by various members, our aim should be for this legislation to enter into force as soon as possible, so that industry can begin to get rid of the gases with very high global warming potential, while maintaining the six-year type-approval timeframe.
on the regulation on certain fluorinated gases, there has been serious debate over the legal base: whether the legal base of the regulation should be the environment (article 175 of the treaty) or the single market (article 95 of the treaty) or whether the dual legal base proposed in the common position (articles 175 and 95) should be maintained.
in this case, as in the ozone depleting substances regulation to which this proposal is related, that is environmental protection.
it is clearly explained in the recitals to the regulation that the main aim is to contribute to global warming reduction targets.
the scope of the regulation is absolutely clear on that as well: global warming reduction targets, air quality improvement.
article 175 will also allow those member states which already have more ambitious legislation in force as part of their kyoto strategy to keep that legislation where it is appropriate for the functioning of the internal market and not, as would be the case with the current common position, force them to bring their environmental standards down to lower eu levels.
the internal market will still be protected from unjustified trade barriers under the environment legal base, article 175, which is predicated on protection of the single market.
the effect of the environment legal base is substantively the same as the single market (article 95) base, which also allows member states to take stricter measures.
one key argument that has received little acknowledgement in the heated debates so far is the competitiveness case of employing article 175 to achieve our lisbon targets of becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, with sustainable growth as an integral part of that objective.
i believe in containment and recovery as very sensible and effective means of mitigating emissions of greenhouse gases.
mr president, commissioner, fluorinated gases are a grave threat to our environment.
we must also be firm in our commitment to honour the kyoto treaty and to go beyond the rhetoric of environmental protection.
we must replace fluorinated gases with safer alternatives and take real action towards stopping their release into the environment.
the whole globe shares the same ozone layer.
phasing out the use of fluorinated gases in favour of competitive alternatives is an important step towards making real environmental progress.
however, in phasing out substances, we must also ensure that existing f-gases are not simply released into the environment.
we have to ask ourselves the question: what is the best way to keep f-gases from being released into the environment?
i should like to put on record that it was considered, but without much debate at all, and the members of the legal affairs committee were never even advised that parliament's legal opinion to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety was that the dual legal base would not withstand a challenge before the ecj.
would the commissioner agree that one of the best ways to manage waste is not to create it?
this had a huge impact on waste management in ireland.
and i would suggest that the eu should only import food produced under the standards it demands of its own producers, and not accept lower standards in relation to animal welfare, food safety and the environment.
(applause)
madam president, we live in a global environment and many of our political problems are tackled within a multilateral framework.
these are demands that cannot be met if we want to maintain a viable, sustainable agricultural sector within the european union for the future.
this is not just about protecting farmers’ interests; it is also a very clear and important issue regarding food security, security of food supply and of the standard and quality of food, and security as regards ensuring that biodiversity and the available alternatives are maintained in the rural areas of europe.
with regard to sustainability, the rising price of oil and fuel in recent months has sent shockwaves through each and every economy, as well as shocking private consumers.
the time is ripe to move towards a common european market in energy in which we can utilise the collective strength of the 25 member states to lever a better price, and to bring together the minds, intelligence and innovation available in those 25 countries to look into alternative fuel supplies, and in particular to look into new ways and new mechanisms for conserving energy.
however, greater focus should be placed on solar, wind and water energy, as this can also contribute a great deal towards a final energy plan.
– mr president, i am sure there is nobody in this house who disputes the need for reach, whose primary concern is the health of the people of europe, its future generations, its young people in particular, and the environment.
more and more scientific research shows that modern-day illnesses such as asthma, allergies, certain types of cancer and work-related illnesses are often the result of chemical products in the environment.
i believe that, with the amount of effort that various members of committees have put in, particularly my own committee, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we have achieved that balance and i believe that this proposal should be acceptable to the house.
this reach regulation aims to maintain a strong chemicals industry within the internal market, while providing a high level of protection for human health and the environment.
we need the highest possible level of confidentiality for business, while not compromising human health and the environment, by allowing registrants to use third-party representatives where possible and by protecting against the publication of sensitive business information on the agency’s website.
article 3 of the tobacco products directive sets limit values for tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide only.
decommissioning costs should be calculated in from the very beginning and someone must then step forward and take responsibility for the financial and organisational burden of cleaning up the nuclear waste that will be left behind.
– madam president, a decade ago there was much speculation about climate change, but today it is very much a reality as we see the future unfolding before our eyes.
however, major players now need to be more proactive in convincing countries with the highest levels of pollution: the united states and developing countries.
i remain deeply concerned that the united states continues to choose to tackle the climate change issue through unilateral activities.
climate change needs to be dealt with as a global problem.
if carbon dioxide is not reduced, the arctic ice cover will disappear.
ireland is much more energy efficient than it was a decade ago.
tackling climate change was never labelled as being easy, but complacency in dealing with it is far worse.
what is a fact, and what surprises many people, is that because of the level of greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere, we are already committed to a significant amount of global warming and rising sea levels.
if we became a perfect pupil now in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, we would still suffer from past pollution, but the longer we wait to tackle greenhouse gas emissions in a serious manner, the more entrenched the commitment is.
greenpeace has warned that this year’s experience could be a sign of things to come if practices such as deforestation and emissions of heat-trapping gases into the atmosphere do not stop.
by tackling climate change in a serious manner, we not only help to preserve our planet for our grandchildren and future generations, but we would also save them and ourselves monetary cost, given that the climate change costs incurred as we aim to protect disappearing species and habitats are very high.
climate change policies thus need to be designed to contribute to economic growth in the developing countries.
mr president, the debate is just about over and the scientific jury is largely agreed on the impact of greenhouse gases on our climate.
the eu 15 will not meet their current kyoto targets on co2 emissions reduction and nothing will be done about that.
at the cop 11/mop 1 meeting in montreal next month, the focus will be on post-kyoto and on what happens beyond 2012. without genuine global cooperation, particularly from the world’s largest producer of greenhouse gases, the us, any agreement will be meaningless.
we await the commission’s review of the operation of the emissions trading regime next june to keep the cynics and the ‘i told you so’s’ at bay and to maintain the credibility of the emissions trading scheme.
we are still only paying lip service to the whole area of energy efficiency, which has an enormous contribution to make.
why not legislate for all motor fuels to include a blend of fuel from renewable sources, for example 5% bio-ethanol mix in petrol, 2% bio-diesel mix in diesel vehicles, without any alteration necessary to the vehicles?
if we are convinced that co2 emissions need to be reduced dramatically, then we have to stop tinkering at the margins of renewable energy and to achieve genuine liberalisation for electricity markets.
i obviously wish to see human and public health being protected, as well as the environment, however we must not loose sight of the fact that to allow new processes to be developed, new products to be created and new innovations to be made available for the greater good, we cannot impose huge restrictions on businesses, which would prevent them from having certainty with regard the business, regulatory and administrative environs within which they must operate.
sport can play a vital role in encouraging development and sports projects can contribute to reaching the millennium development goals, especially under themes such as health, education, gender, environment, peace and human rights.
it is crucial that a distinction should be made between commercial services and public services, and that public services such as water, sanitation and energy should not be dismantled or undermined in the gats.
i refer specifically to the 2001 directive which deals with strategic environmental impact assessments and the 2000 directive which deals with the prudent use and protection of water resources – all of which are the subject of this complaint.
on amendments 1 and 2 to the blokland report on batteries and accumulators, i have decided to vote in favour of a single environmental legal base of article 175 ec.
it is appropriate that we are having this debate as a joint debate with the casaca report, because the whole issue of fishery control measures and what is required is one that not only can deliver more environmentally and economically sustainable fisheries; it can also give certainty to many fishing families, so that they can continue to live their lives in the way that they have enjoyed up to now.