mr president, cop 10 marked the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the framework convention on climate change and was the first cop held in the certainty that the kyoto protocol would enter into force.
we believe that they should prepare for the meeting in bonn in may by setting out a global proposal on future climate policy which is consistent with the eu's commitment to keeping global warming to a maximum of +2°c, compared with pre-industrialised levels, and to having global emissions peaking within the next two decades.
climate change is putting this at risk, and so drastically reducing co2 emissions is becoming a top priority, one that should override all economic and social choices.
so far, they have not worked, while with liberal globalization, the distortive factors have multiplied: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the environment, such as the shifting of production to countries with weaker environmental regulations and thus increasing emissions, the rich countries wasting more energy on transport and civil uses, the privatisation and liberalisation of energy which, instead of producing savings and clean sources, is putting traditional sources of pollution in competition.
if we want to implement kyoto in practice and go beyond it, as we should, we need much more: we must concentrate all our efforts in terms of scientific research, energy policy and infrastructure in such a way as to achieve this objective, with a comprehensive, well-articulated, adequately funded and democratically participated grand strategic plan.
something that goes beyond the old, outdated market formulas and instead represents the real challenge of a sustainable future: a new social and environmental economy, structurally democratic, solidarity with the whole world.
the proposed constitution establishes the union as a community based on fundamental rights, bases european policies on a code of common values, sets clear and binding objectives and expresses a commitment to respecting economic, social and environmental sustainability.
our objective is therefore twofold: the european parliament must approve this constitution in order to quickly lay the foundations for its passage, and seek to build a strong and stable alliance with those political, social, associative and economic forces which believe, as we do, that in order to achieve our objectives of social justice, ecologically sustainable development and peace, we must, of course, win the national elections again, but also strengthen and complete european democracy.
just two points: the natural disaster in asia was also an ecological disaster.
in addition to repairing this environmental damage, it is urgent to rebuild tourist facilities wherever possible.
the reconstruction must be more solid, more sustainable.
the pilot project of the thai ministry of the environment with the un and the world bank to repair environmental damage on koh phi phi seems to me to be groundbreaking in this respect.
we need to be constructive in engaging on issues where we have differences, such as climate change, the international criminal court and trade disputes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am convinced that the construction and operation of the transeuropean transport network can make a real contribution to european prosperity, also in terms of solidarity and sustainable development.
our competitive card is knowledge and environment.
it is pretending to be a democracy and it wants to legitimize a puppet administration, thus continuing to be complicit in the aggression against iraq, the motives of which have been shown to be absolutely false and which has been followed, in addition to brutality, by many clear instances of corruption, waste, inflated accounts and fraud against the administration itself.
the palestinian world is living without reference, without certainty, in a social state of total environmental, work and organizational degradation.
today europe is laying the foundations for a climate of greater peace and tolerance.
everyone is for nature and the environment.
i think we should be grateful to the two-wheeler because, especially in the countries of southern europe, it helps to solve the serious traffic problems, helps our environment and contributes to a better livability of cities, especially those with a more ancient urban fabric.
it is no longer sustainable to imagine europeans driving on the same roads with different driving licences, having met too different requirements.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electrical energy in vehicles.
these new lights will consume less than the crossing lights, since one of the objections we have is the energy consumption of lighting these lights during the day.
from the new period onwards, lfas should be addressed on the basis of objective natural criteria which do not change over time, thereby corresponding to a permanent handicap, such as low soil productivity or poor climate conditions.
evaluations of rural development programmes show the relevance of support for the less-favoured areas to maintain mountain-farming populations and for the land management in mountain areas, including landscape and environmental protection.
the mediterranean is our priority today, because it is where the greatest challenges for peace, security, the fight against terrorism, development, respect for rights, protection of the environment and the positive governance of immigration are at stake.
the european union must finally play a more decisive political role in order to create a genuine climate of cooperation, growth and peace in that area.
the agenda for the joint debate is as follows: the oral question (b6-0007/2005) by mrs luisa morgantini, on behalf of the committee on development, and mr enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, and mr giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy to the council on the subject of 'terms of the wto agreement on textiles and clothing'.
quality and safety of products, protection of the environment and social rights, consumer protection, respect for the rules of international trade, technological development - these are all issues on which the european union has made its war horse and on which it is basing most of its political strategies for the coming years.
sustainable economic development, market liberalization and the well-being of our citizens are our objectives and cannot be the cause of the loss of competitiveness of our own products within our own territory in favour of goods that are far from our standards of quality and safety!
mr president, i would like to ask the council whether, when we talk about encouraging imports from the least developed countries, we also take into account factors such as the protection of workers in those countries, in terms of social security but above all of working hours and conditions, and whether we also take into account environmental protection, in order to avoid negative effects on the environment and negative effects on our economy by those who produce without respecting the strict rules to which we must adhere.
the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new legal basis for the protection of the environment, which would allow member states to maintain more stringent national provisions for five years after the directive enters into force.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year.
as if that were not enough, thyssen-krupp seems to no longer show any interest in enjoying the benefits in terms of infrastructure and energy costs, after having repeatedly requested them.
finally, the terni steelworks, which had been downgraded to regional status and reduced to low production volumes - 800,000 tonnes per year, compared with a capacity of 2 million tonnes per year - and with high energy costs, was to be substantially dismantled.
nor did the company consider alternative solutions, such as the promotion of a consortium of italian users similar to the one already existing in england, the supply of hot coils from germany as is already done for some production sites (such as genselkirchen and even competing sites, such as newport), the reactivation of an electric furnace already installed in terni, which requires only a modest investment for environmental reasons.
in its investment plan, the company had committed itself to making terni the european centre of excellence for magnetic steels, thanks also to the benefits in terms of infrastructure and energy costs granted by the italian government in june 2004. it should also be noted that additional investment from the european social fund has been used to develop the local system, infrastructure and vocational training.
i have recently held a political meeting of the new psi at the steelworks in terni, and i have seen clearly that terni and umbria as a whole are united and determined to wage a courageous and hard struggle, not only to defend their own productive and economic environment but above all to protect the dignity of the local community.
in the name of globalisation and unbridled competition we cannot dismantle social protection, workers' rights and environmental safeguards.
the problem of emissions trading is one which we started a few days ago and it will certainly be very important to evaluate all the results and to take a position on processes which may at some moments have paradoxical characteristics and unintended side effects.
mr president, i would like to thank you, and in particular the committee on industry, research and energy, for this opportunity to discuss in plenary the issue of doubling the research budget.
some compete on the back of the environment, which we cannot accept.
the only way for european enterprise to build sustainable leadership is to exploit the knowledge triangle fully: the creation, transmission and use of knowledge through research, education, training and of course innovation.
it also brings continuous progress to society: progress in fields such as health; preservation of the environment; and sustainable energy supply.
building a knowledge society is probably the best, and perhaps only, way to sustain the european social model without having to make a trade-off between economic growth, social cohesion and environmental protection.
the first concerns the fact that the european union is consuming more and more energy and importing more and more energy products, the second concerns the relationship between energy development and the environment, particularly after the implementation of the kyoto protocol, and the third concerns the livability of our cities in terms of energy pollution.
these factors are increasingly making it necessary to think about the energy of the future, in particular renewable energy sources, and to constantly search for alternative energy sources.
i believe that by promoting renewable energy sources, we can contribute to the objectives of general energy policy, security of supply and competitiveness, as well as to improving and strengthening environmental protection and sustainable development.
in this particular case, i think it is only natural to ask economic operators, such as oil companies, which have been able to benefit from special market conditions and make a certain amount of profit, to participate with others, with adequate funding, in plans and projects relating to alternative renewable energy sources.
among the possible measures already introduced in the debate, i consider extremely important the intervention in the case of the metropolises and large cities, investing resources to repair them from an energy and environmental point of view.
in addition to the constant talk about competition, economic growth, freedom of capital, services, goods, etc., it is good that europe, which is so often over-strained as a christian west, is distancing itself from neo-capitalism and putting the environment, the environment and the future in the centre.
we cannot ignore the fact that corporations simply move their often subsidized enterprises to the places where they find the most favourable conditions - salaries, taxes, social charges, environmental regulations, controls, etc.
in 1945 the atom bomb leveled two japanese cities, with effects that still affect the lives of millions of citizens and the surrounding environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we compare this morning's speeches and the resolution on the revision of the lisbon strategy, which we are about to vote on, with the speech by president barroso a few weeks ago, we can only welcome the broad agreement that exists, at least in principle, that the relaunch of the lisbon and gothenburg strategies depends on the indispensable rebalancing of the three dimensions of the strategy, namely the environmental, economic and social dimensions.
we believe, commissioner verheugen, that the reach regulation in its present form is hardly a sufficient compromise between the obviously important industrial concerns and the priority concerns of health and the environment.
in our view, this value is given by the ability to invest in growth instruments, which is not reduced to just percentages of gdp, and in non-strictly material sectors, such as education and culture, exploiting renewable resources and sustainable solutions and gradually abandoning sectors that consume and waste resources, such as large infrastructure and intensive agriculture, and that generate high risks to health and the environment, such as nuclear energy, gmos and harmful chemicals.
the protection of the environment and the creation of a european social model must be pursued.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i were asked what are the two main reasons why i consider the convergence which is taking place today between the presidency of the council, the commission and parliament to be important, i would say that the first reason is that the social and environmental quality of development is sincerely recognized not as limits and obstacles but as factors in competitiveness.
the two-way mobility between firms, universities and research centres, the harmonisation of working conditions and career progression and the creation of european infrastructures are essential conditions for creating a fertile environment for research.
we cannot compete on the back of our environment.
building the knowledge society is thus probably the best and maybe the only way to sustain the european model of society, without having to make a trade-off between economic growth, social cohesion and environmental protection.
it is not only a strategic step, but also an essential one, to close europe's competitive gap in innovation and, consequently, in economic growth, employment and sustainable development.
the problems of the european union's competitiveness vis-à-vis the new asian giants, the flight of our best minds to horizons of greater opportunity, the difficulty of achieving the lisbon objectives in terms of employment, development and innovation, energy supply and health are the issues that fill our parliamentary days and on which the future of our economy and our social system depends.
human rights, gender, environment and children's rights: are all identified.
you raised several concerns as to the two countries’ ability to fight corruption and in general to live up to the commitments made in the field of the environment, reform of the judiciary system or the rights of minorities.
secondly, numerous criteria, especially in the field of justice and home affairs, as well as competition, state aid and the environment, are included in the accession treaty itself.
the points are: the reform of the stability pact, precise numerical targets for the kyoto protocol, which the commission has unfortunately decided not to mention, the rebalancing of the lisbon strategy in terms of environmental and social sustainability - albeit in a still vague and imprecise way - and a sort of newfound alignment with reality for the bolkestein directive: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the use of the euro.
the choice, for example, to invest up to 700 million euro a year in the construction of the international experimental thermonuclear reactor, when even the most optimistic do not expect it to be used - if it is possible - before 2050, means not recognizing the urgency of applying the kyoto protocol nor the potential of renewable energies and not investing in this sector.
in addition, unfortunately, we have to note that during the european council absolutely no account was taken of the fact that a healthy macroeconomic environment must include a tax reform which transfers the tax burden which today is on labour to environmental degradation, thus helping to make regular employment more attractive.
president barroso, commissioner verheughen, i think that there really should be something to be learned from the sad parable of the italian economy and its government, which came to power promising a new economic miracle, cutting taxes, environmental rules, and today the country is ranked last in europe for growth and competitiveness.
we need a europe which rejects the bolkestein directive - the disastrous working time directive - and which is able to break the cage of monetarist liberalism on the left and to boost - not reduce - investment in quality, rights, development, employment and the environment: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
it was a revolt by the entire population of that village against a recently installed chemical plant which has produced in a short time a very serious pollution of the air, water and soil.
i mean that now, even in these new economic powers, as a result of industrial growth, new environmental, ecological, health and social issues are emerging.
this clearly indicates our role in the future international division of labour: we can design and sell the technologies that will enable these countries to grow without repeating our mistakes of the past, like pollution and social repression.
in view of all this, i think the outcome of the summit is positive, because it has really relaunched the lisbon strategy on the basis of the interdependence of the three pillars, it has relaunched the european union's global role as a leader in the field of sustainable development and it has envisaged a very ambitious and important kyoto 2 protocol in this very sense.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
we must not forget that the social and ecological pillars of europe are often threatened with collapse.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda includes the question by mr karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to the commission on the commission's strategy for the first conference of the parties on persistent organic pollutants (pops) (o-0042/2005 b6-0171/2005).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances.
secondly, and very importantly, there must be greater progress in phasing out the use and release into the environment of the twelve persistent organic pollutants included in the current list, and in particular ddt, which you very rightly said is still necessary to combat malaria in some developing countries.
the first conference should also set out the course for further measures to reduce the risks from the use and disposal of pcbs and to reduce and prevent the release into the environment of organic pollutants arising as by-products, in particular chlorinated dioxins and furans.
as regards point 9 of the resolution, i think it is the commission's duty to include members of the european parliament in such missions, and i can say that from the experience i have had on two occasions, one in buenos aires and one last week in new york at the conference on sustainable development, where members of parliament also took part, we had excellent cooperation and managed not only by exchanging views but also advice, opinions and in particular political opinions on certain issues, to advance the issues on which we were in these conferences.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
mr president, pollution of the groundwater is caused by percolation from the surface, by the use of chemicals in agricultural activities, by organic and inorganic pollution due to the surface runoff of waste water and civil waste water, whether free or channeled, and last but not least, by the inadequate waterproofing of waste collection basins.
unfortunately, landfills are taking place in several regions of the union, both in the newly acceded countries and in the oldest ones, such as italy, and they are causing serious and uncontrolled pollution of groundwater.
the introduction of threshold values for pollutants at the discretion of the states is a serious step backwards in environmental protection.
the commission's gradual approach does not mean that we are acting within the limits of national prerogatives, as we would like to do in many other cases, but it does harm the environment and consumers.
i therefore hope that the directive will be amended in the course of the legislative process and that the thresholds for pollutants will be identical for all the member states, ensuring the same levels of toxicity to man and the environment.
the aarhus convention has broken new ground in the way the public is involved in decision-making relating to the environment.
it is not logical that young people should learn to decipher words and read numbers, but that they should not have access to the images which make up almost the whole of their environment, that they should only receive them passively.
strategic for the sustainability of european transport, as priority projects are mainly rail, maritime and inland waterway projects.
it is true that since 2002 and with the specific provisions of 2004, the problem has been raised not only in terms of the protection of human life at sea and the environmental impact, but also as a prevention of attacks.
i think i should first of all thank mr karl-heinz florenz for his question and for his speech, which clearly delineates the issue of climate change and also gives some glimpses of solutions to this problem which will eventually constitute or may in the long run constitute a threat to humanity.
i believe, as the european council in march showed, that climate change is indeed a major challenge for europe, as indeed for all industrialized and industrializing countries, but that it also offers our industries new opportunities and prospects.
it is clear that europe can also exploit its role as a driving force to become an industrial power in development technologies, particularly in the field of alternative energies; in the field of energy saving, europe can, by cooperating with other partners, and in particular with countries such as china, which is beginning to attach greater importance to these issues for various reasons, in particular climate, consolidate its leadership position and make better economic use of it.
i therefore believe that competitiveness and environmental protection, as well as competitiveness and tackling the climate problem, are perfectly compatible.
the council also shares a number of analyses developed by parliament in its resolution on this subject and the seminar of government experts is an important meeting in this field: it represents, in a way, a new stage in the development of a future climate regime for the period after 2012. the parties will exchange views on current policies and initiatives, as well as on future adaptation and mitigation measures to address climate change.
the european council meeting on 22 and 23 march 2005, and i have already spoken about this in the context of the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, has already adopted key elements which are of vital importance for the design of the future climate regime.
it confirmed that, to achieve the key objective of the united nations framework convention on climate change, the increase in the global annual average surface temperature must not exceed 2oc compared to pre-industrial levels.
it also welcomed the commission communication on 'defeating global climate change' and in this context clearly stressed the need to give new impetus to international negotiations by exploring options for a post-2012 regime and ensuring the widest possible cooperation from all countries.
during a visit by the troika to the united states on 18 and 19 april 2005, and i think the commissioner can speak about this, an agreement was reached to explore ways of relaunching the activities of the eu-us high level group to discuss policies to combat climate change.
contacts with other key players, and i will mention in particular china and india, involved in the climate change process, are planned in the coming months.
the issue of climate change is also high on the g8 agenda and i know that the future british presidency will regard this problem as one of its priorities.
the european parliament certainly has an important role to play in our joint efforts to reach agreement on a future climate regime.
i would first like to thank the president, mr florenz, for giving us the opportunity to discuss climate change today and, in particular, the european union strategy for the seminar of governmental experts on climate change which will be held in bonn next week.
i share the view of parliament that the seminar is a very crucial step in the elaboration of the future regime on climate change.
on 9 february, the commission adopted its communication winning the battle against climate change on the planet.
this communication, which is also addressed to the european parliament, contains the commission's first recommendations for the european union's strategy beyond 2012. the main elements of this communication were adopted by the environment council on 11 march and by the european council on 22 and 23 march, as mr schmit has already mentioned.
there is a need to explore, together with key partners, during the current year both the possibilities of a post-2012 strategy and the creation of a favourable climate for the launch of formal negotiations on the future regime.
three weeks ago, together with my colleagues - as mr schmit said - from luxembourg and the united kingdom, i visited the united states and the result of these really constructive discussions, as you know, mr florenz, because we had been looking forward to them, was the agreement to explore ways of re-routing, re-establishing the high level group between the european union and the united states to examine policies to combat climate change.
and climate change is high on the agenda of the g8, and i have already had informal discussions with colleagues from our key partners both in the g8 meetings and at the united nations on the occasion of the sustainable development debate.
as regards the seminar of government experts, this represents an important opportunity to extend these contacts at this level through open dialogue within the framework of the united nations agreement on climate change.
i should point out here that many countries are hiding behind - at least so far - the refusal of the united states to discuss the issue of climate change.
i would like to agree with mr florenz that we must include other sectors if we are to be able to combat climate change even more effectively, including the transport sector.
as mentioned earlier, the commission is preparing a communication for next june on the subject of air transport, whose share in greenhouse gas emissions is steadily increasing.
in conclusion, i would say that parliament is called upon to play an important role in our efforts to reach agreement on the future climate regime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is indeed a very important problem, a real problem.
climate change is due to a double deficiency: the physical scarcity of energy resources and the inadequacy of the ecosystem to absorb waste streams.
it is important to remember that climate change, with the increase in extreme events, poses serious threats to the territory, which must be countered immediately.
the question is not only the production of energy but also the consumption habits of our civilization.
taking the knowledge civilization seriously also means changing our way of life even more radically and making our development sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, given that the environment is an inalienable asset whose potential must be managed to the best of our ability and whose continuity must be guaranteed, we and the tricolor flame movement, which i represent, believe that the union should make this issue one of the priorities of its policies and strategies.
it is not possible here to go into the scientific merits of the hypothesis that our planet is undergoing a climate change on the geological time scale - a hypothesis on which there is no agreement among researchers - also because of the limited time-space of meteorological observations.
it is widely accepted that the rise in the average global temperature since the beginning of the last century has led to changes in the ecosystem - let us mention the progress of desertification processes.
to come back to the other main objectives of the budget, solidarity and security, the commission proposal foresees measures to improve social and environmental security, ensure fundamental rights and promote active citizenship, especially for young people.
the fight against terrorism, improving food and transport safety, and security of energy supply are also among the priority measures, for which the preliminary draft budget proposes an increase of 5%.
however, even if this assessment were wrong, the reference to the agreement on sustainable development reached at the gothenburg european council is certainly unsatisfactory: there is no competitive growth that is not also sustainable growth.
the end of import quotas due to the expiry of the multifibre arrangement, the entry into force of the eu-china bilateral agreement of 2000 and the infringement of the ec mark were the subject of three questions which, on 6 january this year, i addressed to the council and the commission to find out - concerned about the consequences - what action the commission intended to take given that the principles on which the wto rules are based (environment, labour, non-harmfulness of products, infringement) were being violated by china.
sixth and final point: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
there is currently no positive initiative by the commission in the environmental, social or cultural fields.
the committee on the environment has, however, made a number of changes to the text presented by the commission, notably by deleting article 4, which in my view is a very important article because it defines the nutritional profiles.
as regards instruments, in reviewing the lisbon strategy today, we all understood the importance of integration and the importance of the possibility of creating synergies between our efforts to promote the development of small and mediumsized enterprises and entrepreneurial and industrial innovation, in order to create a more prosperous economic environment, together and in synergy - not after or alongside - a social dimension, a social policy.
the quality of public finances must be improved, the quality of public spending must be improved - and i agree with some of the comments and contributions that have been made - the sustainability dimension must be introduced into public policies, structural reforms and public accounts - as some of your honourable members have mentioned - but we must also maintain the view that budgetary discipline and sound public finances are necessary, because without them none of the other objectives can be achieved.
mr president, although i did not ask to speak, i would like to inform the house that article 4 is being reintroduced, which restores the nutritional profiles that the committee on the environment has decided to abolish.
however, it regrets the council's reductive approach, on the one hand because it has limited itself to environmental applications and on the other because it has made little use of the commission's coordination capacity.
i hope therefore that we can return to this subject, precisely to make it an extremely important instrument, because we need it far beyond the environmental field.
i come now to axis 2, which concerns amendments 73, 79 and parts of 69, 76 and 81. the commission is in principle prepared to accept or partially accept amendments on: the inclusion of the conservation of genetic diversity, the inclusion of payments linked to the water framework directive, not to consider the requirements for pesticide and fertiliser use as additional to mandatory requirements but as part of them, a more flexible approach towards the duration of agri-environmental commitments, the eligibility of high nature value areas among non-productive investments, and the inclusion of loss of income criteria for natura 2000 payments in forestry.
cutting funding to rural development means cutting resources to food security, environmental protection, landscape initiatives, product quality and job creation.
the report adopted by the committee on agriculture attaches great importance to measures to support young farmers, who must be encouraged not to abandon the countryside and to orient their activities in a competitive and sustainable way.
apart from agri-environment, the commission is not willing to make other measures compulsory.
this is all the more remarkable when one considers the difficult climate, especially the pressure of the blind rigorist impulses, in which his work began and has continued to this day.
i agree with your proposals: strengthening the commitment to human rights, the protection of nature and the environment, the fight against poverty and the strengthening of the economic and social council (ecosoc).
powerless and blocked for many years by superpower rivalry, the united nations must find new energy and new life.
we are equally committed to seeing progress in the field of post-conflict situations and, therefore, we support the proposal for a peace-building commission as an instrument that will fill an existing gap between post-conflict situations and long-term sustainable peace.
equally, we will support the creation of a un environmental organisation, which will further consolidate the central focus of our actions in the field of the environment.
on climate change, we believe that the summit should call for more collaborative efforts to achieve the objectives of a un climate change convention.
the summit should endorse the un secretary-general’s proposals to ensure concerted global action to mitigate climate change and develop a more inclusive international framework for climate change beyond 2012. the commission wholly endorses the contents of the un secretary-general’s report on the proposal for a comprehensive convention on terrorism and calls for member states to agree a definition of terrorism.
we support a radical reform to render the body more operational and would like to see its role in all the pillars of sustainable development reinforced.
this naturally involves attention to the management and conservation of fishery resources, pollution prevention work but also the safeguarding of jobs.
as for the potential of the catch, according to the experts, we are reaching the limit and it is therefore right that the european parliament and the commission should try to limit the run and manage the catch in a sustainable way and eradicate destructive forms of fishing with severity.
the citizens therefore expect the european parliament and the commission to find a balanced position, one which can reconcile economic and ecological needs.
similarly, the protection of fish stocks must be based even more closely on scientific information than is the case today, but it is also necessary to actively involve fishermen in the management of fishery resources and to mediate with the environmental world to raise awareness and call attention to employment problems.
we have ascertained that the decision was duly forwarded to the competent italian authorities on 23 february 2004 by both the parliament and the italian representation and published in the official journal on 22 april 2004. so this new demand - which will waste our time again - shows that, in addition to the spaghetti with clams, we are also exporting "justice to the clams" everywhere, which is not always pleasant.
secondly, mr president, we must also do 'something european', as a famous italian film director used to say, something which is far more than the bolkenstein directive, software patenting, the arbitrary and closed-door authorisation of new gmos, or a little bit of air-frying on sustainable development, while in reality - alas - environmental policy is becoming increasingly marginal in your commission.
the debate on the future of europe and its legitimacy will be greatly facilitated if europe has something to offer in the coming months: reach, action on climate change, the concrete redefinition of social europe, the working time directive, serious respect for the commitments of the millennium round.
today we have the opportunity - and i hope parliament will not waste it - to be very close to these young people who have asked for us and to the many movements that have expressed themselves, and i think that parliament cannot fail them.
the extension of the scope of the cohesion fund is also in line with the relevant provisions of the treaty, the priorities decided in lisbon and the gothenburg perspective for sustainable development.
this will help to meet the large funding needs of the beneficiary member states in the fields of environment, transport infrastructure and sustainable development.
i also gave some space to the great theme of the environment, calling for guarantees of greater coherence between projects financed under the cohesion fund and those financed under other community programmes.
it favours the choice of field made in gothenburg and lisbon and therefore chooses the path of the knowledge economy, knowledge, innovation, scientific research, training, understood as a permanent opportunity throughout the life span of men and women, as well as risk prevention and sustainable development.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
this will act as a real engine for the sustainable and lasting development of the territories.
this point concerns article 7 on specific legislation on environmental damage.
as regards environmental damage, i believe that there is a great deal of weakness and lack of legal certainty at european level, as well as in many member states, and that there is no advantage in depriving victims of this choice.
i believe that if we do not follow this path, it will be yet another waste of public funds with poor or poor results.
the political class must govern the processes of globalization with choices that are equivalent to guaranteeing them water, energy, food, health, freedom and education.
the environmental dimension, all such elements, are components which fall strictly within the sphere of development and require a different financial treatment, of a rather subsidized type.
secondly, it is strongly urged that ethical, social and environmental clauses be recognized and enforced, so as to extend the scope of rights and improve working conditions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we must not waste the time we have gained and we must use the suggestions coming from the high-level group, from cooperation with business and social forces and from the ongoing dialogue.
these products are manufactured without any guarantee for the consumer as regards the production processes and the materials used, often with a very high environmental impact and, moreover, without respect for social guarantees and the dignity of the worker, in complete contradiction with the provisions of the world labour organisation.
but let's start by asking why these events happen: i see this as a sure component of global warming, which has exacerbated extreme events, namely longer periods of drought, as commissioner dimas pointed out, and i thank him for his presence.
i remember that a two-degree increase in air temperature, from 20 to 22 degrees celsius, increases the water vapor content in the atmosphere by 12 percent and consequently the moles of energy in the atmosphere, which unfortunately we also had confirmed with hurricane katrina.
this is a project which must increase our water safety, our geological safety and our fire safety, and make it possible to exploit the energy which can be collected when we go on the land.
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for the second reading by jonas sjöstedt on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the management of waste from extractive industries and amending directive 2004/35/ec [16075/1/2004 - c6-0128/2005 - 2003/0107 ((cod)).
nor would we need them if the sun's uv rays were not becoming more dangerous as the ozone layer is depleted.
whilst it is difficult at this stage of this sort of process realistically to reach any level of agreement, the atmosphere, environment and relationships that are being built are healthy and, hopefully, lay the foundations for a process that will lead to a mutually satisfactory conclusion.
in this environment, the council believes that it would be irresponsible to budget the huge increases proposed in the pdb of nearly 12% across that particular heading.
we meet today in an environment where it is more important than ever that we rebuild, that we strengthen the relationship between the european union, its institutions and the people of europe.
on the other hand, it is also essential not to stop - rather to increase - the development process of the sector by promoting new audiovisual media and information services, but in a climate of serenity and confidence.
the committee on industry, research and energy, of which i am the rapporteur, has, as is well known, approved a proposal for a proportional system.
the report states, and i agree with it, that in addition to what individuals and states must do, community action must be to promote integrated and therefore sustainable socioeconomic and environmental policies.
it's not enough to protect the environment, we have to make the leap, promote a different model of sustainable usability that focuses on quality.
the creation of a business-friendly environment, which is a european responsibility, as defined in the treaty establishing a constitution, must therefore be sought in order to encourage the development of the tourism sector towards the integrated use of the territory as a motor of local development.
i would like to focus on one aspect: sustainability, as already stated in the title, and more specifically on sustainable transport as a prerequisite for a thriving and long-term tourism.
no other economic sector is as dependent on the environment as tourism.
however, in many tourist areas we are so out of step with the rest of the world that we are slowly but surely destroying the foundations of sustainable economies.
air transport is the worst form of mobility in terms of energy consumption and climate impact.
if we really want to promote sustainable tourism throughout europe, we should put much more emphasis on these ecological aspects.
europe has a natural vocation to be a tourist destination, not only because we are the continent richest in history, art and culture, but also because of our approach to tourism that favours quality, respect for the environment and the territory: travel as a form of cultural enrichment.
the greens/efa group is pleased that this subject has been discussed here in parliament and that the following points have been included: investing tourism profits in the developing countries concerned, avoiding mass tourism, promoting human rights and preserving biodiversity.
we believe that environmental protection and the need for a truly sustainable economy are far too little emphasized in this area.
the ecological and social consequences of mass tourism, such as the pollution of water, the alienation of the local population and the exploitation of multinational hotel chains, are not or not sufficiently clearly demonstrated.
tourism, as the cornillet report rightly points out, has been an important opportunity for sustainable growth for developing countries, which must nevertheless exploit this resource while respecting the cultures, specificities, socioeconomic structures and traditions of the local populations.
another phenomenon of illegality is building speculation, which has involved, and generally distorted, areas of environmental value and cultural sites, with the tacit consent and often even the consent of the decaying local authorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can only agree on the importance of tourism as an economic factor and a factor of sustainable development.
i would really ask you, commissioner, after hearing and seeing the industry, to also go and meet the consumer association, the association of those who defend the rights of citizens and the rights of the environment.
i think that also on the question of impact assessment, on other issues that you have raised here such as screening, there are outstanding problems that seem innocent, but unfortunately they are not: i see the dismantling that you and the commissioner and president barroso are doing on reach and what you have already done on the pollution strategy, so frankly i expect you to give a clear answer on both of these issues.
the passage of time is not in the railways' favour, even though european policy continues to declare the modal balance in favour of the train to be strategic, because of the negative effects of the increase in road traffic in terms of fatalities, damage to public health and the environment, and the increasing costs of congestion; the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the transeuropean networks.
we feel that this is a duty not only to protect the environment but also to ensure the safety of the transport system in the broad sense, in the hope that the strengthening of the railway will help to reduce the mortality rate and, more generally, road accidents, which, it should be remembered, have very high social costs for the member states of the union.
the environmental emergency, the high price of oil and road congestion require a decisive choice of rail transport, since it is cleaner, safer and can rely on good national infrastructure to be integrated at european level.
we must therefore ensure that liberalization can be seen for what i believe it is, namely a useful instrument for improving the quality of services, but also for giving an impetus to development, with respect for the territory and the environment.
(applause) i would like to thank
the problem we face is to ensure that the energy supply meets the essential needs of our modern society while at the same time ensuring a very low environmental impact and a reduction in the risks to the health of citizens.
the only answer is to start a transition out of the oil age, and while there are no miracle recipes, there are two options to act on: energy saving and renewable sources.
only then can europe guarantee immediate responses to both the supply crisis and high prices and to energy diversification to reduce external dependence on oil.
we are at the point where an energy regime has become too costly compared to the benefits: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only economically viable, but also that it is able to meet the needs of the world economy.
europe must tackle the energy crisis with research programmes that stimulate the technological development of sustainable and economically competitive energy systems, (the speaker is interrupted) in order to develop employment.
this is another reason why public investment must play a leading role in the transition to a renewable energy and energy saving economy.
oil is scarce and so is the capacity of the ecosystem to accommodate waste streams and combustion products.
we must act now and act along the lines mentioned earlier: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community.
we must concentrate on renewable energy sources, which are the ones that will enable us to meet the commitments we have made to the new generations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about oil, we should ask ourselves about the union's foreign policy, about its substantial use of the policy of aggression and theft of energy resources and the main raw materials put in place by the multinationals and the usa.
1. nationalizing the resources; 2. to strengthen political and economic links with the producing countries by becoming their preferred partners; 3. cease to support or be complicit in us foreign policy; 4. to free europe from blackmail and conditioning and to support european research bodies on alternative energy sources, especially those from biomass, geothermal and any other renewable source, with substantial funding; 5. to monitor the prices charged by oil companies in the various countries of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our discussion of the oil problem means that we must now discuss the tragedies of our present, from war to the depletion of non-renewable resources to environmental degradation, and decide whether there will be a different future or no future at all.
the way out of this is equity, distribution of wealth, new forms of development, new energy choices based on savings and on clean and safe alternative renewable sources, the opposite of coal and nuclear.
peace, equity and the environment are the only choices that can lead us to the future.
the document is very important because it balances a situation of presumption in favour of centralised and concentrated energy production.
there has been a considerable neglect of renewable energies, and now, finally, we can tackle the problem of rebalancing and thus devote to them the research effort they have not had and which they deserve for the indispensable contribution they can make to our energy needs.
this is a contribution to ensuring sustainability, in that they are non-co2 emitting and co2 neutral, to energy independence, to job creation in the union, at such a difficult time, as we have seen today in the discussion on the oil document, and thanks to a technology in which we are at the forefront in the world.
i am sure that this contribution will be very important in the absolute sense, beyond the most daring expectations and also in the mode of diffused production, which will go in the direction of a great responsibility and a leap forward in energy efficiency, through the widespread adoption of electricity generation and simultaneous heating and cooling.
let there be no doubt: the vast majority of the scientific community is now convinced that greenhouse gas emissions are the main cause of the warming of the planet, and there is reasonable doubt that the increasing frequency and severity of recent natural disasters are related to this warming.
the reduction of greenhouse gases requires a move beyond the oil age and towards alternative energy sources, starting with the first alternative source of energy savings.
a policy of increasing efficiency and reducing waste can in fact yield over 20% of the savings in oil consumption in a few years, a marketable share could result from a massive use of renewable sources such as wind, solar and biomass.
the european commission's green paper on energy is a good starting point, but to be effective it requires research programmes capable of simulating the development of sustainable and competitive energy systems, including through multiannual demonstration projects, for example here in the european parliament, and policies to support small and mediumsized enterprises investing in the sector.
the massive investments will have to be matched by financial and fiscal incentives for alternative energy sources to build the necessary infrastructure, for example hydrogen, and for sustainable mobility.
the european union has a key role to play, both in stimulating national policies and in implementing community directives: only through a coordinated effort at continental level can europe become a credible partner for global energy policies.
there is no effective national policy that is sustainable, even if security or human-respect measures must be taken, or if some prevention attempts are made here and there.
we therefore fully support the resolution of the board of governors of the international atomic energy agency, which instructed its president, professor elbaradei - who has now been rightly awarded the nobel peace prize - to continue to pursue the negotiating process.
for the sake of clarity, it should be stressed that iran, like any country in the world, has the right to acquire nuclear capability for civilian purposes, and this is clear both in the resolution of the international atomic energy agency and in our resolution.
it is very important today to reaffirm the centrality of the international atomic energy agency to ensure that there are no military developments in iran's nuclear programmes.
we must therefore also ensure that within this new policy we fight for a different definition of debt sustainability and consider the financial needs of african countries as an essential element.
cities are the main actors in regional policy, because they are the focus of the most complex problems, such as social exclusion and pollution, but also, at the same time, the place where the future of the whole surrounding area is being built, as i have also tried to say, as shadow rapporteur on the erdf regulation.
these are huge demographic hotbeds of cultures and social groups, often highly differentiated, also characterized by a high degree of artificiality, in constant energy and environmental imbalance, with exasperating problems of communication, water supply, social tensions and crime.
for these artificial ecosystems which unlike natural closed systems are configured as open systems, sustainability should therefore focus on a number of priorities: reduction of waste generation and high recycling of resources; efficient horizontal size planning, which depends on what the city produces and how it does it, but also on how the city relates to other urban units and to the peri-urban or rural territory.
i am therefore aware of how much any action aimed at promoting integration and social, economic and environmental development has a positive impact on citizens, which then becomes an added value for the european union.
cities are thus the living environment of the majority of the inhabitants of the european union.
the agenda includes the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on shipments of waste [15311/4/2004 - c6-0223/2005 - 2003/0139 (cod)) (rapporteur: johannes blokland) (a6-0287/2005).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the export of waste to countries where, because of economic or political pressure, it is possible to accumulate rather than actually dispose of what is left over from the consumption of the wealthier societies is a well-known and even ancient fact.
the latter have been able to create new wealth from waste, although often with serious damage to the environment.
the blokland report is rightly concerned about the ecological compatibility of waste traffic, which cannot and should not be managed on the basis of free trade: the groundwater, surface water and atmosphere do not know administrative or state boundaries, because the planet does not function in watertight compartments.
the report is a step forward in limiting, if not eliminating, eco-foodstuffs, in improving the notification of the hazards of transported waste, in improving environmentally friendly disposal processes and in respecting the principle of the sovereignty of each country, ensuring the right of everyone to receive or not to receive waste.
the commission was very pleased to see the importance which the european parliament’s committee on the environment attaches to the environmental consequences of end-of-life ships and ship recycling and we fully share the concerns expressed by the committee.
work is currently being done to address these issues within the fora of the international maritime organization, the international labour organization and the basel convention on the control of transboundary movements of hazardous waste.
in addition, there are a number of amendments concerning further restrictions on the free movement of waste for recovery which would, in the commission’s view, not correspond to the objective of creating clearer and better regulation.
the question has been raised of coherence between the waste shipment regulation and the waste framework directive, which is now coming up for review.
we can confirm that we will ensure that full coherence is maintained between this regulation and the planned revision of the waste framework directive and, of course, we will ensure consistency with regard to definitions in the thematic strategy on waste.
with regard to animal by-products, the commission’s proposal fulfils the same environmental objectives as amendment 91. our objective is to ensure that the necessary environmental safeguards are in place for the shipment of animal by-products.
the following amendments are acceptable in principle: the following table shows the number of the member states which have adopted the euro: the commission cannot accept the following amendments: 4, 5, 9, 11, 27, 30, 31, 33, 37, 54, 56, 68, 81, 86, 87, 88, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 101. should the compromise package be adopted, the commission could also accept new amendments 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113.
the agenda includes the recommendation by avril doyle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council regulation on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases [16056/5/2004 - c6-0221/2005 - 2003/0189a(cod) ] (a6-0301/2005) and the recommendation by avril doyle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on emissions from air conditioning systems in motor vehicles and amending council directive 70/156/eec [1618/42/2004 - c6-0222/2005 - 2003/0189cod] (a6-029/2005)
on behalf of the alde group.
we must combat global warming because of the enormous impact it has on the environment.
the european union has taken this issue as central to sustainable development which, in turn, is one of the fundamental principles for the union: the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union.
the more complex the molecule, the more intense the greenhouse effect.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of the environment, but also of the environment.
the global warming potential as a whole must therefore be minimised: gas and equipment.
if the emissions trading method works as it works i think it would be appropriate to first apply a kind of internal emissions trading in the systems where this method is used, first minimizing the effects of the gas and equipment and analyzing the costs and benefits.
the systems i'm referring to are mobile air conditioners, for example, stationary air conditioners and the gas+energy system to run the equipment.
gas is used as a fire extinguisher and, together with fire, as a source of greenhouse gases, evaluating both the gas and the emission from the fire.
it is therefore necessary to avoid prescriptive, obsessive attention to detail and to aim at minimising the overall greenhouse effect.
i have already said in the committee on the environment that i think it is necessary to depart from certain positions which seem to pursue only partial objectives and which risk producing far more disastrous results, both for the environment and for the economies of many member states.
any ban, and i refer in particular to articles 7 and 8, should be preceded by an assessment of the economic impact and the environmental benefit.
it is useless - and i repeat this - to cause significant economic damage to countries which base part of their economies on the responsible use of these gases, without any appreciable environmental benefits being achieved and in some cases even worsening the damage situation.
there is no point in resorting to bans that cannot offer viable scientific alternatives when at the moment it would be sufficient to reduce emissions.
fluorinated gases are highly energy efficient, non-flammable and non-toxic and can be handled and operated safely by the appropriate personnel.
this reduces the energy costs associated with the high level of safety guaranteed and benefits the environment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions to an absolute minimum.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is often a great deal of confusion and demagogy about the harmful effects of human activities on the environment, both in the sense of 'denial' of this responsibility and in the tiresome pursuit of its affirmation, which has hitherto been supported by scientific arguments which have not been accepted unequivocally.
in any case, it is certainly more certain that the gases we are discussing have a destructive effect on ozone molecules than the supposed increase in the average temperature of the atmosphere due to the higher concentrations of carbon dioxide.
we can also agree in principle to amendment 25, as regards the need to indicate the global warming potential on labels for the applications covered in this regulation, although we believe the issue of labelling would be best resolved by the commission through the committee, after careful preparation.
in practice, this would allow any member state to do as it wished with respect to products containing fluorinated greenhouse gases, because there are no established criteria to determine that alternatives are safe, technically feasible and environmentally sound, etc.
although it supports the principle of amendment 19 on the need to facilitate the shipment of recovered fluorinated greenhouse gases in the community, the commission believes it is unnecessary here since this matter is covered by the new waste shipment regulation.
member states are already allowed to grant fiscal incentives, provided that they comply with state aid rules, particularly the guidelines on state aid for environmental protection, as well as on commission notice on the application of the state aid rules to measures relating to direct business taxation.
the same goes for amendment 2, as the 1999 directive already requires member states to ensure that the label indicating carbon dioxide emissions is affixed on all new cars for sale in the european union.
however, as part of its review of this directive, with a view to making an amending proposal in 2006, if necessary, the commission will also investigate the possibility of including on the label information on the greenhouse gas effect of mobile air conditioners.
many of the new amendments that have been tabled seeking to shift the final date in the common position from 2017 to 2016 will not be supported by the commission, since we believe that the existing dates achieve our environmental ambition and would allow industry sufficient time for compliance.
in summary, the commission believes that, given the relatively small environmental gain that would result from advancing the deadline for the phase-out, the case for a change is not justified.
likewise, we cannot support amendments that change the threshold for the global warming potential from 150 to 50, since this would in our view be determining the technology that the industry has to apply for little environmental gain.
the events of these days have caused us great concern about the state of the environment and health, as well as the conditions at the external borders.
i have followed the romanian question more closely as a member of the interparliamentary delegation and i believe that prudence can help us to become more aware of the situation in this country, where the educational offer is still lacking, corruption is widespread, environmental, energy and economic policies need to be strengthened, discrimination against minorities has not found a real answer and the average income of the population is too low.
i would be inclined to reject amendments which refer to assessments carried out by independent bodies and independent experts, because there are bodies in every member state which are responsible for this function and it would be a waste of resources to provide for others.
finally, as regards the energy sector, i do not think we can speak only of funding for project studies, because most of the time they remain in the drawers and constitute, in my view, another waste of resources.
i therefore believe that the development of the european energy market should be supported by financing infrastructure as well, since the energy problem is one of the factors limiting economic growth in the european union.
hopefully, policy makers will begin to see that this high volume of traffic is not responsible for energy consumption, climate change, health problems, and environmental degradation.
i would have liked to see more eu support for energy networks which, alongside transport, form the basis of a globally competitive european economy.
it is therefore essential to promote economic development by addressing structural weaknesses, stimulating sustainable growth, and making a significant contribution to boosting employment and competitiveness.
i believe that the strategy adopted by the committee on budgets is based on the following principles: maintain consistency with approaches from previous years; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
ensure an adequate overall level of payments; ensure an adequate overall level of structural fund payments; give maximum support to the achievement of the lisbon objectives, through increased resources for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, the environment and, in particular, youth policies; the commission has also proposed that the financial commitment for heading 4, external action, be increased, since the ceiling does not allow for the financing of emergencies which, year after year, add to the previous ones - afghanistan, iraq, tsunami - and parliament's traditional priorities.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the doyle report on the reduction of harmful emissions into the environment for the protection of the climate.
so i wonder if we really have to look at climate change as a negative thing, because it seems to me very pleasant.
and above all, if china continues to pollute and thus negatively affect the climate, do we not want to do anything to avoid importing chinese products if they are made in an un-ecological way?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr florenz's report, which i welcome because it is aimed at reducing noise emissions which are harmful to the environment.
on the other hand, you still refuse to discuss the common energy policy, which is already contained in the constitution, a policy which now seems to be serving to revive the old debate on nuclear energy.
we would really like you to tell us what concrete proposals are possible to exploit the potential of european competitiveness in the field of renewable energy, environmental technologies and energy efficiency.
this would help us to have a real synergy between the strategic economic benefits and the environmental challenges posed by globalisation.
today we have heard clear words on strategic areas for the revival of the european economy, such as energy, research and infrastructure.
there is much to be done for balanced growth, including the need to review - i agree with mr blair - the energy choices, to identify financial and project instruments.
however, i do not think that the attitude of the present government, which seems to be deliberately creating a climate of fear that degenerates into violence and unlawful interference in the conduct of the election campaign, as evidenced by the withdrawal of several candidates from the lists, can be justified.
the report does not yet provide a clear picture of the relationship between poverty, the economy and environmental degradation.
for example, the world energy outlook 2005 of the international energy agency paints a frightening picture: global co2 emissions will increase by 52% by 2030. there is a great conflict of objectives between environmental destruction and poverty reduction.
multinational corporations must take much greater social and environmental responsibility, as for example is reflected in the triple bottom line approach.
i therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposal to relaunch and strengthen the lisbon strategy, which highlights the interdependence between the economic, social and environmental dimensions.
we must put innovation and the environment first and not the ridiculous and disastrous revival of nuclear power.
we need communication networks that respect the environment and do not allow it to be destroyed.
i would like to thank in particular mr sacconi, who, as rapporteur for the committee responsible and as a staunch advocate of improvements in health and environmental protection, was open to compromise.
it has also been very active, raising concerns of industry without losing sight of the important aspects of health and environmental protection.
we believe that they strike a very good balance between the need for the competitiveness of our industry on the one hand and progress in health and environmental protection on the other.
the commission accepts the clarifications for exemptions from the scope of the regulation, in particular for waste, food, biocides and pesticides.
our aim should be to make information available on the internet that is really needed to ensure the protection of the health of our citizens and the environment.
the commission has always seen its role throughout the debate as being to help find a sensible, pragmatic solution to reach, one that strikes the right balance between economic requirements and health and environmental objectives.
we believe that this compromise package makes the proposal easier to manage, more effective and also more cost-effective and that even the environmental and health policy objectives are better achieved in this way.
i would like to congratulate in particular the chairman of the committee on the environment and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and, of course, the rapporteur, mr sacconi, who, with his tireless and always constructive efforts, has made a decisive contribution to the progress of this proposal.
reach is a very important legislative initiative to improve the protection of the environment and human health and, when implemented, will significantly increase our knowledge of chemicals, improve their safety and enhance consumer confidence in the chemicals with which they come into contact.
at the same time, it ensures a high level of environmental protection by requiring more information where the risk is greatest.
although this approach for substances produced or used in small quantities differs from the commission proposal, it is nevertheless a significant improvement in the protection of health and the environment compared to the current situation.
the commission is able to accept several of the amendments tabled in parliament, such as the exemption from registration of waste, foodstuffs and minerals.
on the subject of licensing and substitution, i am pleased to see that members of parliament have tabled a significant number of valuable amendments which place time limits on licensing and increase the pressure for substitution and thus will enhance the protection of human health and the environment.
in this way, the european parliament is making a decisive contribution to improving the level of protection of health and the environment in europe, while maintaining the competitiveness of european industry.
this legislation offers a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to achieve proper protection for humans and the environment while at the same time being workable and maintaining the competitiveness of european industry.
we all want to find a good solution on reach, one that both enhances protection of public health and the environment and maintains industrial competitiveness.
this would be good news for the environment and for industry, bringing an end to uncertainty, and indeed good news for everyone.
it would finally provide a more effective system for managing the risks presented by chemicals in order to protect human health and the environment.
it maintains the objectives of reach in the field of protecting human health and the environment.
we have not only safeguarded but also strengthened the balance between those two essential aspects which are of paramount importance to us all, namely the protection of health and the environment on the one hand and the competitiveness of the european industrial system on the other.
as regards human health and the environment - and i shall merely mention some of the improvements in the commission's proposal which i particularly attach great importance to - we are moving forward with the registration of persistent bioaccumulative substances and introducing the chemical safety report - if, of course, this parliament will approve this choice - also for the lowest tonnages, as well as for the most dangerous substances.
if parliament approves the position taken by the committee on the environment on thursday, we will establish an authorization mechanism for the substitution of the most dangerous substances, very similar to what the british presidency was telling us a short while ago.
i think, however, that mr sacconi has made some fundamental mistakes, especially in terms of reports, because, in order to reach a compromise, he should have had to think about it together with the committee on the environment, otherwise it is a purely personal position and not a position of the committee.
they are the forces of the wild market, deregulation, profit speculation on health and the environment.
all these forces represent a distortion of the principles underlying a harmonized social and environmental europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are discussing today has among its main objectives the protection of human health and the environment.
i would like the european union, which is often at the forefront of difficult environmental battles - think of climate change and the kyoto protocol - to take on these needs and negotiate with the wto the extension of these rules to all countries producing substances and articles, insisting on the need to apply the principle of traceability of substances.
first of all, i would like to respond to the criticism that has been levelled at me by various colleagues, including mr breyer and mr foglietta, that i would have expressed my personal position and not that of the committee on the environment.
i would like to mention here the example of the osor principle, which for the first time, thanks to the compromise, has been widely accepted in parliament, whereas it had previously been adopted only by the committee on the environment.
however, the problem i want to raise is that of the overall security of our continent and the concomitant problem of how that security can be pursued together with appropriate and effective energy supply policies, such as to ensure the adequate financial competitiveness of the european system in the face of the challenges of innovation and development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greenhouse effect is the greatest problem we have to face, because it involves a structural change in the conditions of life.
this commitment must lead us to save and use renewable alternative sources, managed democratically.
in view of this objective and this need, any idea of resorting to nuclear energy, which is a finite resource with a very high risk, with unsolvable problems such as waste, and an undemocratic resource, is truly unacceptable.
man has never won and will never win the battle against climate change, because his influence on it is limited and not yet scientifically proven.
i think that the wish to reduce harmful and potentially climate-altering emissions is one that can be shared by all, but there is a big difference between that and the approval of a document of dubious scientific merit, even presumptuous in its objectives.
i also disagree with the claim that the european union should commit itself to helping china, india, brazil and south africa financially to develop sustainable energy strategies.
it would be more appropriate to apply sanctions and trade restrictions to the industrialized countries, including the united states, and the developing countries mentioned above, if their production continues to harm the environment and is, more generally, of very little social interest.
the climate of renewed calm among the 25 after the tensions of recent months and the willingness to conclude the negotiations on the financial perspective by december must be viewed positively.
the need for a european energy policy, increased community aid to the countries of transit for immigrants and the compensation fund for globalisation are also priority objectives for europe, but they require adequate financial resources.
i am referring to the positive solution to the turkish problem, which would not have been possible without the strong commitment of the british presidency, and to the ability to indicate a path, a perspective and clear objectives which were then put into practice, at least in vocations, at hampton court, namely university, energy, security and defence policy.
iran is a country of 68 million inhabitants, covering 1.7 million square kilometres and a major oil producer, which its present president is trying to transform into a state which is the expression of the deepest islamic fundamentalism, by supporting or not condemning terrorist acts and by striving to produce nuclear energy without the endorsement of the international community.
china has invaded the european market with an avalanche of seemingly cheap products, but in reality they cost a lot: in china, products - from clothing to agro-food to high-tech equipment - are produced without respect for human rights, with ridiculous wages, without regard for the environment, without guarantees for consumer safety, often with the use of child labor.
in view of the hong kong round of the wto, we call on the commission to call for the introduction of social and environmental clauses to stop unfair competition from china; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, in particular clauses against social and environmental dumping, protecting workers and the environment, and making the movement of goods de facto subject to the protection of rights.
we cannot make deals with those who exploit, damage the environment and fail to guarantee respect for human rights.
through sport, we can educate, we can make low-cost, high-impact projects, which should be supported and promoted with energy.
the inhabitants are rightly concerned about the environment and their health, given the presence of asbestos.
the massive cost increases that will affect the union's economy must be addressed and the environmental impact and greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced in order to meet the kyoto targets.
the first line of defence is to focus on energy saving and efficiency.
the directive can create incentives to reduce energy demand immediately.
the need for more transparent energy billing systems has been recognised, which can help users to adopt energy-saving behaviours.
the indications in the energy efficiency action plan can be an incentive for member states to behave well, especially if the audit system can ensure a qualified verification of results on bottom-up systems.
the hope is that the directive will help to create a genuine market for energy services, guaranteeing equal opportunities and quality of services through targeted incentives.
a strong political commitment to energy-efficient technologies is essential to boost innovation and european competitiveness, and to become an effective tool for the implementation of the lisbon strategy.
mr president, over the past few months energy issues have grabbed the headlines.
energy efficiency is now attracting attention but has not yet made the front page.
firstly, china has started to use the target approach: it aims to decrease its energy intensity by 20% by 2010. that is not a huge step, but it is the same target-based approach.
i will continue to explain to the new member states that they do not in fact need to consume a lot of energy per capita, and can even now gain the benefits.
i agree with mr guidoni that perhaps we could be more ambitious in the air transport sector, but it is there in the directive, and this will also provide an opportunity to deal with energy efficiency in that sector.
i think that industry will discover that its profits will not decrease because of energy efficiency being in place – indeed, perhaps the opposite, as it provides new chances for growth in that sector as well.
the directive also takes into account the initial situation on energy efficiency.
but at the same time, i think that, with the development of new technologies, there will be a huge opportunity for energy savings and energy efficiency even in the most progressive countries.
i think that the energy services market is extremely important.
it gives opportunities not only for energy efficiency, but for employment and growth in the union.
with this recommendation amending the text of the common position, we are very close to finalising the legislative process on the energy end-use efficiency and energy services proposal.
we had asked for priority attention to the budget lines for growth, competitiveness, education, research, small and mediumsized enterprises, youth, environment and culture policies, and we have obtained the renegotiation of the amounts for as many as six programmes co-decided and the allocation of additional resources of eur 100 million.
(applause) i would like to thank
i have just returned from the montreal climate conference, where a very important result was achieved: fully implement the kyoto commitments and prepare to move forward, making the agreement live well beyond 2012, with very important reduction targets.
the conference showed a determination to choose a different development path, to focus on alternative energy sources and savings, to choose the path of multipolar cooperation, making this the most important mission for a world grappling with the environmental crisis and the contradictions arising from ever greater inequalities.
president barroso is proposing liberalism and dumping, the bolkestein directive and the time directive, wild globalisation which produces increases in transport emissions, which are the ones that are breaking through all the roofs.
in the face of the montreal conference and those who, like china, are calling for renewable energy, savings, alternative and clean sources.
we need social cohesion, innovation, environmental quality, reconnecting economies and territories, cooperation, democracy and peace.
our response is that if transport users are progressively made to bear the costs of the transport they use, this will help to reduce pollution and congestion and to provide additional funding for investment in transport infrastructure.
the new directive will also allow for greater variation in tolls, depending on the pollution of vehicles or congestion on the roads.
it is perfectly clear that if member states wish to introduce urban toll systems to reduce pollution and congestion, they are free to do so, and in this respect the example of london seems to me to be quite interesting.
in particular, they will allow member states to do the following: levy charges on all roads rather than just motorways; charge goods vehicles down to 3.5 tonnes and not just vehicles of more than 12 tonnes; benefit from much more scope to vary tolls to influence hauliers’ behaviour to reduce congestion and pollution; impose a mark-up in mountainous regions to combat congestion and pollution and raise new funds for major trans-european network projects.
infrastructure charging will only have its full positive effects if it allows the two principles to be fully combined: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
paradoxically, however, the greater attention paid to environmental, congestion and safety problems in this measure is due to a waiver of jurisdiction: the commission has not sought to assimilate urban areas and sensitive mountain areas, but has instead recognised the full compatibility of the euro-vignette with livingstone-style urban tolls designed directly to regulate congestion and combat pollution.
the latter is a worrying new tax which the union wants to impose, this time on commercial road transport, in the absurd belief that it will help to rebalance the competitive relationship with the railway carrier by producing those environmental benefits which we all want.
they impose too high differentials between the 15 and the new member states, generating a waste of incentives which hinders further results in terms of attracting new businesses, leads to a displacement of non-competitive businesses which can only survive through subsidies, and creates surreptitious competition between the poorest areas of europe.
these include freedom of expression, justice, the fight against corruption, anti-discrimination measures, the protection of children and persons with mental health problems, excessive use of force by police authorities, waste and garbage management, food safety and environmental protection, and the implementation of legislation providing for the return of immovable property; i would like to emphasize what has already been said by a colleague on the problem of international adoptions, which is not solved even in the light of the new law, which has no retroactive legal effect but which has in fact blocked families with an adoption process already in place at the time of the entry into force of the moratorium.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.