lithuania has been determined to ratify it so that the energy and optimism of the new countries can be passed on to the old ones of the european union.
today, commissioner valdner expressed concern about the upcoming electoral environment, because of the influence that has been trying to be exerted from within the country for some time.
the commission is supporting new investments through its energy trans-european network programme.
the ten energy guidelines are currently under discussion at the european parliament, though mainly in relation to co-financing feasibility studies.
i would also like to know your opinion on the fact that in lithuania there is a growing feeling that in the current situation, when lithuania is still dependent on one side of the energy supply, and when lithuania is increasingly talking about the possibility of extending the second unit of the ignalina nuclear power plant?
at eu level 2006 will be critical with regard to the implementation of the five eu strategic objectives adopted by parliament, including the lisbon strategy, the sustainable development strategy and the social agenda (2006-2010), as well as the achievement of the main target of restored growth and jobs in europe.
firstly, some countries in central asia, and kazakhstan in particular, are among the largest trading partners of the european union in terms of energy resources.
we must therefore pay particular attention to ensuring that cooperation is sustainable, that cooperation is geared to helping these countries build democracy.
new technologies are spreading very fast and only those who are able to use their creative energy more quickly and efficiently can lead the way.
in order to harness this creative energy and to turn our cultural potential and heritage into a competitive advantage, we need to have clearly defined priorities.
we want to modernise our knowledge, our social structure, because only a qualitatively new knowledge, a qualitatively new social environment can unleash human creative energy and make use of the cultural heritage that europe has accumulated.
mr president, my oral amendment is as follows: ‘calls for the conclusion of an agreement between the lukoil company, controlled by the russian government, and the lithuanian government on guarantees of compensation in the event of an environmental catastrophe at the d-6 oil drilling facility near the curonian peninsula, a unesco world culture heritage site;’
for the alde group a long-sought solution to ensure the security of gas supply at cross-border level in order to address the security and diversification of supply in the baltic region of the european union.
it is clear to the commission that the people of uzbekistan urgently need to work towards a peaceful and sustainable solution to the present situation.
it is worth encouraging these countries to find partners as soon as possible and to act with even greater energy.
the 'report on textiles and clothing after 2005' is a very important document for my country, lithuania, where textiles and clothing has a long tradition and the number of people employed is remarkable, so i voted to call on the commission and the council to take serious steps and implement effective measures to meet the challenges the eu textile and clothing industry faces in 2005. bearing in mind that the union's textile and clothing industry is made up of small and medium-sized companies and is highly labour-intensive, and that member states cannot adopt measures independently because they have delegated trade policy to the exclusive competence of the eu, i voted to protect european consumers from the counterfeiting of textile and clothing products, and to introduce mandatory origin and company name labelling for products in this sector, and that any enterprise wishing to export to the eu must declare its compliance with international social and environmental rights and standards.
sustainable tourism must protect it as well as the landscape, the village and the urban fabric.
these countries are attractive to young people because of their low cost, although the "old" are also coming to us because of the healthy climate.
our businesses are forced to comply with the eu's high standards of labour, social protection and environmental protection, while competing with chinese manufacturers who do not.
the european union must ensure that international agreements enshrine mandatory compliance with labour standards, occupational safety, social protection and the environment.
if we reject this commission proposal, we will lose a very important european instrument to ensure the quality of higher education throughout the european union, in all its countries, and waste money.
i can tell you - as i have already indicated - that on the one hand energy policy plays a very important role and we are at least open to further conferences.
tens of thousands of young soldiers from the former soviet union have been involved in rescue operations to eliminate environmental hazards as quickly as possible.
it is essential to help ensure the security of energy supply in these regions, as the forced closure of nuclear power plants poses a threat not only to economic but also to political dependence on energy suppliers.
in this context, i would like to emphasise one of the necessary conditions for closure, namely the creation of a common energy system for the european union, the supply of energy resources.
if the world community does not take urgent and drastic action to stop global warming, the planet will become a hurricane-bearing, fire- and water-breathing monster.
the report rightly proposes to make the eu an even clearer leader in the use of renewable energy sources.
every citizen of the eu should feel that living with as little pollution and heat as possible is not only beautiful and noble, but also worthwhile.
this is a revision of the wto rules, introducing social and labour and environmental standards.
understandably, many wto countries with low labour and environmental standards are reluctant to discuss these issues because they will lose competitiveness compared to countries with higher standards.
perhaps previously unnoticed, china's aggressive entry into global textile and other product markets since the beginning of the year has left countries with high labour and environmental standards losing the race.
trade cannot be treated as a separate entity, separate from production, occupational safety and the environment.