however, the economic environment in the union will also change over the next five years.
(applause from the right)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i welcome the clear and courageous statements made by the luxembourg presidency on sustainable development policy.
more than other presidencies, the luxembourg presidency is trying to maintain a balance between economic, social and environmental policies.
it argues for the obvious: in terms of growth policy, social and environmental policies are a starting point and not an endpoint.
i am sure that your proposals on major construction projects, the financial perspective, the reform of the stability pact and the revision of the lisbon process are guided by this spirit of sustainable development.
mr president-in-office of the council, i also hope that you will find the energy to convince the european council that europe must remain the driving force behind the kyoto process.
it is imperative that, following the success of kyoto, the european union now sets out a long-term framework for climate change policy, i.e.
in key sectors such as energy and transport, how can we guide the investments of economic actors in europe if we have not drawn up a clear framework for future policies in this area?
you mentioned that it was concerned with three areas: ecological, social and economic.
it is the ambitious environmental policies of recent decades that have made europe the world leader in ecotechnologies and renewable energy.
the presidency's ambition is to bring together the social, environmental and economic fields.
europe must defend its social model, its environmental model.
this is essential, but governments will only reap the full benefits of structural reforms in terms of growth and employment in an appropriate macroeconomic environment.'
this is stated in the economic policy committee's annual report on structural reforms, which makes it clear that governments will "reap the full benefits of their structural reforms in terms of growth and employment only in an appropriate macroeconomic environment".
for my part, i do not think it is superfluous to stress in this debate that the conditions for healthy and sustainable growth are created by sound public finances and reasonable compulsory levies.
mr goebbels, of course, puts forward a number of good ideas in his report - such as encouraging certain types of investment in social services or sustainable development - but he seems to miss the point, namely that economic efficiency follows well-defined rules and that it is dangerous to deny them.
the added value for the region, the sustainability of the projects submitted and the background work carried out should also be taken into account.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i thank the commissioner for his clear words on energy efficiency; reducing demand in both the energy and transport sectors will be one of the important answers.
this weekend i was in wels, austria, attending one of the biggest renewable energy fairs.
so we definitely need a directive to promote the use of renewables in the heat and cooling sector, in other words low-temperature energy uses.
we are afraid that once the lisbon nebula has disappeared, we will be confronted with social and environmental realities which do not represent the integration of the three pillars.
we have already said so in amendment no 2.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president borrell's initiative to invite the representatives of the national parliaments to a joint debate on the economic, social and environmental future of europe is already bearing fruit.
high social and environmental standards can and should be part of a winning economic option.
it is no coincidence that the scandinavian countries, which have adopted the lisbon strategy for social and environmental excellence with the greatest determination, are among the most economically successful european countries.
a modern competitive environment requires a re-examination of the concept of flexibility.
the socialist group withdraws these two words, which i hope will enable us all to vote together in favour of a more sustainable transport policy.
it will also address the sustainable development strategy and the kyoto protocol.
i would therefore like to turn to the issues of sustainable development and the kyoto protocol, which are obviously also linked to the lisbon strategy, since we have clearly stated this morning that the environmental dimension in the lisbon strategy must be maintained and even strengthened.
it is therefore only natural that the european council should also be consulted on sustainable development and the kyoto protocol.
the presidency considers that sustainable development is a global concept and that the european council will have to clarify how to deal with the future revision of the sustainable development strategy.
the guiding principles of sustainable development could, for example, be enshrined in a charter including a set of relevant indicators to be applied in the various policies.
in any case, time is running out and we think it would be useful if the new strategy on sustainable development were finalised and presented later this year.
we all agree that climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, with serious environmental, economic and social impacts.
this week's environment council will look at this and draw conclusions.
the second is to develop a long-term eu strategy to limit the temperature increase to two degrees and to reduce cumulative emissions by 15 to 30% by 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
first, there is the need to relaunch the lisbon strategy and to refocus it on growth and jobs in order to bring our wider economic, social and environmental objectives within reach.
on some of them, such as sustainable development and climate change, agreement is also essential if we are to use the lisbon reforms to ensure sustainable growth.
i look forward with interest to the political impetus of the european council for a european charter for sustainable development, which the commission will not fail to follow and support.
i voted against the auken report because i believe that we cannot set the future financial perspective by fixing expenditure in advance for one area of environmental policy.
i cannot go into all the details, but having a work plan, energy as a priority and many other issues mean we did a good job.
this is crucial for climate change and for the future of energy resources.
it combines a high standard of living with social and environmental standards that are rarely exceeded.
the greens do not want a europe which is recklessly putting at risk our social and environmental achievements, part of our european identity.
we therefore welcome the clear language of the luxembourg presidency of the eu council and its commitment to the economic, environmental and social triad.
but after the solemn declarations, concrete action must now follow, in two areas: in the field of environmental protection, we finally need a european effort to combat climate change, and this must be reflected both in the financial perspective and in the european investment bank.
investing in public transportation, investing in building renovation, investing in heating networks, is reducing climate damage and our dependence on oil.
the complexity of economic, social and environmental challenges does not allow for simple answers.
our social market economy produces a high standard of living while maintaining social and environmental standards that are among the best in the world.
in europe, the fight for greater productivity is inseparable from the fight for a fairer distribution of the fruits of growth, for greater social cohesion and effective environmental protection.
it is not by chance that the nordic countries offer a high level of social and environmental protection.
the eurozone currently has a positive macroeconomic environment: low inflation, a strong currency, very low interest rates.
the two treaty-based instruments - the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines - have the same objective, albeit from different angles and at different levels: to increase our growth, to increase employment levels and, on that basis, to deepen social cohesion, the social model that is part of the lisbon strategy objectives and social and environmental sustainable development - another of the lisbon strategy's major elements - and, of course, all this in a way that improves our competitiveness and our capacity to continue growing.
ladies and gentlemen, i do not share the views of those who feel that the european social model is a failed model, that europe is the environment it is losing.
on the one hand, the commission will support the revision of the recitals in order to highlight the lack of progress in reforms over the last five years and to enhance the importance of social cohesion and the environmental dimension in the lisbon strategy.
its central role, as an integral part of both the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy, is unquestionable, as it sets out the main lines of action needed to progress towards more quality jobs, a more united and balanced society.
growth alone does not guarantee solidarity or social sustainability.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
as regards the reorientation of european policy - and i see mr barroso looking forward to it - i think that after one year of your presidency of the commission, you should really consider how much your commission's decisions on bolkestein, the working time directive, reach and climate change help to create a positive mood in europe, or rather help us to only incite more citizens against this constitution.
parliament and some member states disagree, arguing that a legal basis based on article 175 of the treaty on the environment would be more appropriate.
our policy was not simply to manage the current market situation but to improve the future environment for clearing and settlement in the european union.
this environment would allow these operators to implement their strategy without unnecessary obstacles and in full compliance with essential public interest objectives such as system security, fair competition, efficiency, etc.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
climate scientists are predicting extreme drought in southern europe.
and they also tell us that the strength and impact of hurricanes and typhoons will continue to increase with climate change.
there are a number of publications by climate scientists on this.
i ask you, mr dimas: should we not at last allow the many good words about climate protection to be followed by more action?
where are we with a second european programme on climate change, and how do you intend to further activate the montreal climate negotiations in the autumn and winter?
if we take climate action and do it smartly, then the same action will also reduce our dependence on oil and help improve the air quality in our cities.
throughout history, mankind has adapted to the natural climate.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
traditionally attached to production models in harmony with their environment and subject to a stringent arsenal of community regulations, european winegrowers, anxious to deliver quality products, risk finding themselves, if transatlantic practices are accepted, in a situation of unfair competition, so that they will eventually be forced to abandon their ancestral practices that have been the specificity of the european wine sector for hundreds of years.
therefore, madam commissioner, we must do everything we can to protect this sector, which is fragile because it is subject to many variables such as climate, but which has always been at the heart of european culture.
so long as we are not serious about efficiency, especially in the transport sector, there will be no answer to oil or to climate change.
in its resolution tomorrow, parliament will call for europe to become the most energy-efficient and least oil-dependent economy by 2020. this is a huge opportunity for environment policy and for employment policy.
mr president, we live in an energy-hungry world, whereas some 1.5 million people do not have access to electricity.
energy savings and improved energy efficiency are priorities.
all forms of renewable energy must be encouraged.
europe must invest more in all forms of energy research, in technological development related to hydrogen.
the hydrogen transformation will require a lot of energy.
in the meantime, coal will remain an important source of primary energy, even if cleaner technologies will have to be developed.
rapporteur.– mr president, the 21st century will be the century of renewable technologies.
when we speak about renewables we are not just talking just about security of supply, about the environment; it is also about the future industrial and economic policy of europe.
we also need a systemic approach to energy policy.
the best renewable energy is the intelligent use of energy; it is energy efficiency.
a second important systemic approach – and this is something that we often forget – is appropriate energy densities.
via our energy policy we must give up today's inefficient uses of energy and move on to the use of low-temperature renewables or waste from electricity production.
there was a monitored 80% reduction in energy.
then, what was a small 5% of solar heating, if you do an 80% reduction, immediately becomes a 25% of renewable share.
now to solar thermal cooling: yes, we can cool houses with solar energy, and this is a perfect combination because when the sun is there, buildings are getting hot, but then the sun is also there to help us produce energy to cool this building.
in the electricity sector, ocean energy will be the next big development and we have to put money into solar thermal electricity development.
we need to stop subsidies for coal and nuclear energy and we need a stable framework for renewable electricity.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
it is a mistake to think that more culture in school curricula would be a waste of time.
the protection of the environment and the protection of health remain the primary objectives.
but despite the fear mongers, europe's natural environment is constantly improving and every year the life expectancy of europeans is increasing by an average of three months.
in the face of often extreme demands, our rapporteur and others have managed to strike a balance between health, environmental and economic imperatives.
mr president, our committee on the environment, public health and food safety had a discussion on 14 june with the administration of parliament to take an ecological assessment and to see how we could operate with greater parsimony.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not energy efficiency is the most important source of energy in europe!
in addition to competition for the production and sale of electricity and gas, this directive will also increase competition for investment in energy-saving technologies, so-called negawatts.
this is the way to get europe to take energy conservation seriously.
the real reason why large energy companies like rwe or e.on fought this directive so hard behind the scenes, in the commission, in parliament and in the council, is that they are afraid of a market for energy savings.