today, with the list of spas and their importance for biodiversity conservation fully recognised, resources may be lacking to maintain them.
first, we need to create a new single environmental financial instrument.
secondly, the proposals to complement the activities supported by the draft regulation by the following are welcome: to provide funding for the management of habitats that cannot be supported under the structural funds and the rural development funds, to provide funding for the implementation of pilot projects in the field of environmental technologies, to provide for preparatory measures for the future mobilisation of the structural funds.
amendments to the directive on the sulphur content of marine fuels are necessary with a view to reducing harmful emissions from marine fuels, thereby reducing acid rain and improving air quality in europe.
improve air quality in the immediate port and coastal areas by reducing the adverse effects on human health of acid emissions, ensuring that sufficient quantities of this fuel are available.
after a proper study, we still need to find the most sustainable, environmentally and economically viable solution a solution that takes into account the precise answers to a number of important questions.
does the production of low sulphur fuel use so much energy that it risks exacerbating the greenhouse effect?
i urge a very serious review procedure to ensure that our fleet is sustainable in the long term and that the environment and human health in the european union are adequately protected.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the close link between russia's economic growth and the increase in energy prices on the world market, which has not been accompanied by socioeconomic reforms, does not give confidence in sustainable and stable growth in this country.
this requires replacing market principles with long-term planning methods to ensure security of supply for consumers and environmental protection.
in reality, these two visions are two sides of the same coin: without economic integration, and also social integration, it is not possible to build a sustainable political integration structure.
as a result, the baltic sea arsenal is being developed in ways that are totally incompatible with the northern dimension, such as transport and energy systems, new ports near st petersburg, which not only complicate the ecological situation, but also impede the supply of natural resources from the northern region to consumers in the european union.
i must say at once that such a measure would be unthinkable in a competitive environment and that the opinion of the transport committee on supporting this regulation was therefore largely based on optimism or scepticism about the increase in competition in rail freight in the coming years.
the rising inflationary pressures in several of the new member states of the european union are also underpinned by the component of oil price increases driven by the prevalence of old and energy-intensive technologies in their economies.
this is a reality that must be taken into account in the formulation of european union policy, and not just in the energy field.
all the proposed action strategies for the expansion of the energy portfolio and the reduction of oil dependence in the european union presented by the commission should be accompanied by the view that it is essential to envisage a substantial increase in financing for the expansion of the energy portfolio in the financial perspective.
iran's response was clear: violation of the paris and other agreements, concealment of violations, resumption of nuclear energy development.
i too have been in tunisia for the last month and that is why i asked this question, but i would like to say on my part that i would like to see your answer give me more energy and precision - because the questions were quite precise - as to what specific measures to take.
such a lack of trust does not encourage multilateral cooperation and undermines the work of the international atomic energy agency and other specialised chemical and arms control organisations.