we must be able to turn this strategy into jobs and prosperity, and this can only be achieved if we succeed in reducing red tape and creating a healthy business environment.
a healthy economy should be the means to the real end, that of giving our families a decent life and a decent job in a better environment.
i must stress that i am fully in favour of the principle that ship-source pollution must be combated.
it is, therefore, unjust that shipowners, masters and crew members who have taken all reasonable measures to prevent pollution resulting from an accident should be treated in the same way as people who have committed intentional pollution, or pollution resulting from reckless or negligent behaviour.
we all agree on the need to regulate ship-source pollution, but in doing so we must, and should, adopt a practical approach that can help us reach our goals in an effective yet pragmatic manner.
obviously, pollution is a maritime catastrophe and we all agree on that.
i do not think in all sincerity that this directive will reduce pollution.
i believe that the european union could have dealt with this phenomenon with more energy and urgency.
mr president, who could possibly disagree that the tool for promoting growth and competitiveness in europe is a sustainable research and development policy?
naturally, we support the arguments that to achieve budgetary efficiency we have to take a critical look at all forms of expenditure, make more efficient use of resources and avoid waste and duplication of functions.
firstly, it provides a financial instrument that is an integral part of the common fisheries policy, in particular to accompany resource management and help to repair production structures and create the ideal conditions for their sustainable development.
the general opinion is that the commission has overlooked the environmental aspect and ignored the fact that certain measures could put the fisheries sector in a disastrous situation.
we want to send a strong message to both the commission and the sector and we want the fisheries sector to remain sustainable and viable in the years to come.
environmental protection is a very worrying factor and excessive use of precaution leads to overprotection.
as i said before, we have reached agreement on a very important point concerning the renewal of boats, we have reached agreement on the modernisation of the fleet and the renewal of coastal boats and we need a fleet that is competitive and efficient for the time to come so that the sector remains truly sustainable.
as mentioned, the european fisheries committee has already mentioned several opinions on this subject and different aspects of the proposal such as the problems for sustainable fisheries, aquaculture and fleet and implementation related questions have been considered.
i believe that this report has succeeded in summarising the most important points and i also believe that this report has the necessary political strength to ensure that the fisheries sector remains viable and sustainable both financially and environmentally.
bottlenecks should be eliminated and we have to sharpen our focus on the core operations, ensuring a more efficient use of our resources and cutting down on waste and duplication.
i also believe that the range of services needs to be extended to other services such as environmental and restaurant services.
they include: creating an effective information strategy; providing an efficient service for members and visitors; continuing to purchase property and buildings under the right conditions; streamlining manpower policy and improving activity-based budgeting, which focuses more on core operations; critically examining all forms of expenditure; making better use of our resources, thus reducing waste, and other inherent malpractices – so adding real value to our performance.