we are faced with the dual task of adapting to climate change while at the same time limiting climate change.
in the face of this enormous challenge, the outcome of the climate conference in buenos aires is particularly disappointing.
of course, a number of american states are willing to work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and there is indeed interest in our system of tradable emission allowances.
and indeed, scientists who deny man's influence on climate are hard to find today.
the contributions of african and central american delegations in buenos aires all began with mentions of unpleasant climate change.
- mr president, this parliament has had many debates in recent years on the need for climate policy.
i notice that there is less interest in climate policy.
the reason for this, i believe, is that we are not seeing much of climate change and that the negative effects will be felt most strongly in remote countries.
it is also thought that reducing greenhouse gas emissions will cost economic growth.
the scientists involved have shown that climate policy can be much cheaper if air quality policy is linked to climate policy.
i would also like to take this opportunity, mr president, to point out to the commission the problems with the emissions trading system.
our climate policy must aim at improving the quality of our environment, we have agreed to this and we must stick to it.
- the climate conference in buenos aires did not produce the result we wanted.
we also note that the rapid growth in india and china must also have an impact on the involvement of these countries in climate policy.
there are now 128 member states that have signed the climate convention.
but if we are to have a long-term climate policy, we can only achieve real results if we not only broaden but also deepen the debate.
i am confident that under the leadership of this commissioner - but i must also congratulate pieter van geel on the way he has done it, he has already received many compliments - it will no longer be claimed that it is only europe that is doing something about climate policy, because then we will be further isolated.
i am talking about one of the challenges, mr president, namely more and better jobs, but also sustainability and social cohesion.
nor can the free and fair competition which is so glorified in that text be subordinated to the environment, public services or the protection of labour.
in that model, economic growth comes before everything else, above people and the environment.
we are not going to accept that such a leading country applies the death penalty, mistreats minorities, neglects the environment, pays workers poorly, maintains unsafe living and working conditions and does not have a democracy.
these include halving global poverty by 2015, ensuring universal access to at least basic education, improving the status of women, stepping up the fight against aids and promoting sustainable development.
i hope that this commission will take the lead - and i also call on the presidency and the member states - to invest in knowledge and skills, in education, education, education and innovation, in the environment and in the services market.
we are all talking about a strategy, the strategy that focuses on competition, growth, more jobs, but also sustainability.
you were right to speak of social sustainability.
i did not hear you say anything about environmental sustainability.
i therefore expect that social and environmental sustainability will receive greater attention in the lisbon process.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the energy, time and commitment that the high representative has put into keeping a fire burning over the past few years.
whether it 's dealing with climate change or ensuring good education .
it has done important work to improve the implementation of the action programme on the environment and health.
our group could live with the text as adopted in the committee on the environment, but we want a stricter line.
the report on the environment and health is timely.
air pollution is a particularly serious problem in europe.
the european commission has calculated that air pollution causes more than 300,000 premature deaths in europe each year.
the european environment agency notes in the signals 2004 report that there is increasing evidence that health effects are already occurring at dust and ozone concentrations below the values currently set to protect health.
the protection of the environment, health and consumers requires a european approach.
in the context of the lisbon process, ambitious environmental policy is a stimulus for technological development and improvement of european competitiveness.
if we do not invest in environmental quality, we will not only be seriously undermining public health but also european industry.
the misuse of identity cards does not always seem to be conducive to a sustainable society.
every year beaches become polluted again, and as many as 40% of the dead seabirds on the north sea coast are the result of oil pollution.
the council has met parliament's expectations in this respect, and that is good for the citizens of europe and the environment.
the european coast guard, this is a longstanding wish of this parliament, necessary for effective prevention and detection of oil pollution.
finally, we must of course do everything we can to prevent pollution, and that is the purpose of the directive on port reception facilities, but it is still completely inadequate.
i am pleased with the result, i thank you for it, especially in view of the importance for the citizens and the environment along our coasts and in our coastal waters.
the success of inland waterway transport is very important for sustainable european transport.
without the involvement and equality of all groups of inhabitants, the problems in liberia and sierra leone will not be solved in a sustainable way.
i would especially welcome the environmental activities of the eib, particularly its expanded lending for renewable energy projects.
parliament’s report suggests that prudential rules be laid down to ensure that eib loans do not compromise the sustainability of the member states’ public debt.
i would like to point out that the existing framework under the stability and growth pact provides a detailed and powerful mechanism for ensuring that member states’ borrowing is undertaken in a sustainable fashion.
on the one hand, it is to be welcomed that more and more funds are being allocated to projects to support the environment, for example renewable energy sources.
that is very good, but care must be taken not to finance at the same time other projects with a very negative impact on the environment, because one action will negate the other.
i think that the report by mr lipietz does not take account of the role of credit in the environment.
the eib's environmental report is too limited in my view.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
- a month or three ago, on 10 and 11 december, i participated on behalf of the european parliament in the trilateral energy conference of the nordic council, the baltic assembly and the benelux interparliamentary consultative council.
the main topics discussed were the promotion of renewable energy and the future of nuclear sources.
an excellent document was presented, 'sustainable and secure energy supplies', which will also be discussed in the committee on industry, research and energy at the end of this month.
the increase in the share of renewable energy from 6% to 12% will not be achieved.
the finite nature of fossil energy sources requires an intensification of research programmes.
commissioner piebalgs can speak freely within the priorities of this parliament and on a voluntary basis - i am not talking about hidden energy taxes, which is unacceptable - but within these framework conditions.
in addition, countries that perform well in the areas of human rights, good governance, labour law and sustainable development receive further benefits through the sap plus programme, which is designed to provide additional incentives for governments to work seriously and sustainably towards further stability and development in their countries.
there can be no separation between the eu's competitiveness, social policy and the environment, because without growth we cannot meet our environmental obligations either.
more people in work is the best guarantee for the financiability of social security and for meeting the rising cost of health care, as well as reform of affordable and sustainable pensions.
the economic, ecological and social policies are therefore inseparable.
we can use this experience to carry out joint research on the introduction of a low-carbon economy, on hydrogen cells, on improving energy efficiency and all that sort of thing.
the rich western countries have made a major contribution to that toxic climate in the past.
bulgaria is noted for its eagerness to build major roads and airports without regard for human health, nature, the environment and the rules of the european union.
my group, however, defends the right of rapid accession of european countries with a low standard of living, provided they quickly comply with human rights, democratic and environmental requirements.
i hope the council will soon regret this, because stronger action on energy saving is really urgently needed, for example to meet the kyoto targets.
yesterday a study in the netherlands revealed that citizens can save 400 euros a year in energy without much effort.
in any case, it has become clear to me during the consideration of this dossier in the committee on the environment that there are many arguments for limiting the sulphur content of fuels and few arguments against it.
we know that in some member states this is not going well, which is partly due to the fact that the emissions of harmful substances from traffic are not falling.
the council should have realised that if it sees air pollution as a serious problem, it should also be serious about finding solutions.
eight environmental organizations have rightly pointed out the consequences of this directive for nature, the environment and health.
the concept of integration in the eu treaty with the aim of sustainable development has apparently been forgotten for a while.
the european council has not made it clear what direction it wants to take and how the directive can be given a more social and ecological face.
the president of the council did so in a rather broad way, emphasizing balance and economic growth, which cannot be achieved without environmental and social responsibility.
i have never seen council conclusions in which the words smes, innovation and the environment were mentioned so often.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
but in today's social climate, that's easier said than done.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
this environmental innovation also gives europe a head start on its competitors, since both japan and the united states lack regulations on recycling.
this is mainly about competitiveness and employment, but also about safety and environmental performance.
the european commission is moving in the right direction with the cars 21 initiative, but i fear that the creation of the high level group will turn out to be nothing more than a deregulation operation for the automobile industry, the abolition of annoying environmental and social protection rules under the guise of improving competitiveness.
i would therefore urge you to look further ahead and to show more ambition, because the environment and competitiveness are not contradictory, but rather mutually reinforcing.
an industry that continually achieves better environmental performance improves its global competitiveness.
in the spirit of the lisbon objective, the low level group will focus on employment, competitiveness and a cleaner environment.
the car industry has made great progress in terms of environmental and safety, but is this the right approach for the future?
the commission also works with other international organisations working for roma inclusion, maintaining regular contacts with the council of europe, the osce, the world bank and other major actors.in the lisbon strategy, the european union set itself ambitious targets for growth in job creation, social cohesion and sustainable development.
we believe, however, that it is essential to introduce different measurement methods in europe which reflect the differences in climate and which also reflect the differences in soil types.
the committee on agriculture has therefore proposed that the need for the nitrates directive be reviewed in 2008. the two amendments on this subject were rejected by the committee on the environment, the liberal group has tabled them again and i would strongly recommend them to you.
i can only emphasize, mr president, that the amendment by the committee on the environment is a positive one for me.
this directive is important because it is about achieving an ecological balance.
we have an obligation to prevent pollution and the depletion of natural resources.
in the netherlands, 60% of drinking water comes from groundwater, which is reason enough to prevent pollution as much as possible.
my amendment to convert the cost of pollution by weed killers into a levy has found broad support.
but the cost of pollution has not been included in the chemical controls so far.
it has been a good one from the start, but i also note that a report is now being tabled through the committee on the environment, which is tightening up the commission's original proposal.
the bathing water directive dates from 1976 and since then a lot has changed, not only in thinking about the environment, but also about what exactly, at what level and how to regulate.
the standards proposed by the commission and the environment committee of the european parliament make one in twenty swimmers sick, perhaps still too many, but still a step forward, whereas the common position of the council is satisfied with one in nine.
we have designated some 600 bathing waters in the netherlands, and they must be of good quality and good for the environment and health, and people must also be able to enjoy them.
we all think that is very important and at the same time we say that some of the requirements which were touched upon by the environment committee actually went too far and did not add or would not add anything as an extra protection for human health.
i know that in nature reserves, the feces of birds, for example, are such a diffuse source of pollution that you can never get good quality bathing water, that it can never remain "acceptable".
commissioner, global warming is happening much faster than we thought.
we are faced with the dual task of adapting to climate change while at the same time limiting climate change.
in the face of this enormous challenge, the outcome of the climate conference in buenos aires was particularly disappointing.
we must also carry out further research and development in the field of environmental technology.
the european union should open the discussion on trade measures against countries that do not meet their climate commitment.
commissioner, we expect the european union to have an ambitious international climate policy and to have the widest possible international support among other countries, industry and citizens.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr glinne, for his report, and also for the work he has done in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
four members of our group were guests at the ipcc climate conference in la réunion in february.
we need all the measures mentioned in the resolution, and even then we are not getting the problem of climate change off the ground.
do not opt for a leap forward, do not opt for more nuclear energy, but for the development of all possible alternatives, and stick to the text of the resolution so that the eu can continue to play its leading role.
for us, it is not just a question of securing energy supplies, but also of whether we can strengthen ties with these countries and how we can achieve a certain europeanisation of central asia in terms of the dissemination and establishment of the values we share in the european union, the council of europe and the osce.
that's a waste of time and money.
russia and the european union share a number of common interests in the fields of economy, energy, security and the fight against crime.
the vote in the committee on the environment also showed that this is not an easy subject.
the vote in the committee on the environment completely eroded the european commission's proposal and the rapporteur's report.
the environment committee has therefore rejected the principle that a claim must be based on the true nutritional value of a product.
but lisbon also means that we must ensure that people who are now excluded, have a disability or have a disability which prevents them from combining work and professional life adequately, that these people with the social environment we want in europe also have an opportunity on the labour market.
the economic committee's opinion stressed the need for a cost-effective approach to energy saving.
the different levels of energy efficiency between member states should be taken into account.
secondly, it is important to ensure a strong role for smes in the energy services market, as the contributions of smes to the reduction of energy consumption are significant.
the compulsory provision of free energy audits by energy suppliers would be detrimental to independent companies and smes and it is therefore good that it has been abolished.
it is very important that energy saving is accompanied by a good cost-benefit analysis.
- mr president, to start with, we are saying today a resounding 'yes' to a european approach to more efficient energy use, but i would first like to congratulate mrs mechtild rothe and the european commission on the proposal and report on energy efficiency.
it is in the interest of all of us to use energy more economically and to increase energy efficiency has only winners.
greater efficiency means reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and in doing so, we help meet our kyoto commitments.
consumers and public authorities save on their energy bills, and companies that use energy efficiently increase their competitiveness.
innovation is the key word here and i wholeheartedly support the top-runner principle of amendment no 96. critics who consider this proposal to be unnecessary interference from brussels in internal affairs are forgetting that without outside pressure, unfortunately not enough is being done to make our energy use more efficient, but mr piebalgs' top-down approach must, in my view, be supplemented by the reverse approach.
amendment no 45 challenges companies to come up with all kinds of proposals for more efficient energy use.
governments are in a prime position to make investments in energy efficiency that are not profitable in the short term, but pay off in the long term.
whether it is the purchase of clean and efficient service vehicles, refuse trucks, electronic equipment or energy-efficient buildings, the government is in a prime position to tackle this problem.
we must not only spread obligations across the member states, but also take up the challenge of increasing our energy efficiency ourselves.
i propose that the european commission, the european parliament and the council of ministers should join forces in a competition to determine the most energy-efficient institution.
i know that, and that is what the treaty says, but the question is, of course, whether it is also sustainable in the long term.
the committee on the environment has rightly removed patient mobility from the services directive.
waking up from a drug overdose in a strange environment is no fun for anyone.
no, colleagues, the environment is going faster, china's economy is growing faster, international crime is going faster.
money collectively spent on democracy, the environment, public services, social security and international solidarity is money well spent.
the debate on this subject cannot be summed up in two minutes, but it is clear that the combined economic weight of the european union and the united states gives us both influence and great responsibility; how do we incorporate issues of fair trade, the environment and a more social dimension into our approach to economic globalization?
research shows that people are willing to tackle large-scale and transnational problems to better protect people and the environment, while wanting the least possible interference with national, regional and local democracy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental standards are respected in the north of limburg, in the netherlands, because of the location and the high traffic density.
the government's choice of the a74 plateau road race does not take the environmental standards of the netherlands and europe seriously.
this will lead to a stable environment for the euro and low inflation.
the environment is an important part of the lisbon strategy, as john bowes said earlier.
environmental innovation is helping the european economy to move forward.
how can citizens have confidence in a europe that tolerates 370,000 premature deaths a year due to air pollution?
i share the commissioner's analysis of air pollution with my colleagues.
if you want to regain the confidence of the public, you will have to make sure that you do everything possible to tackle and combat crossborder air pollution effectively.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy.
in the committee on industry, research and energy i have proposed amendments to make private cofinancing more widely available, in the first place for the benefit of the private sector.
of the 24 amendments adopted in the committee on the environment, 20 are to be found in whole or in part in the compromise text.
finally, mr president, of course we can protect our trading position, but always in line with the wto, with a responsibility towards poor countries and with a responsibility for fair trade and respect for human rights and the environment.
but i would like to focus on two areas of european policy, rural policy and forestry policy, and invite the commissioner to look at whether we can use these policies more effectively for those regions that are long-term victims of drought or other climate disasters.
at the moment, too little is happening and i am convinced that if action is not taken quickly, climate change will also take place in that area.
sometimes they are not even economically important, but they are important for preserving the nature and climate of the area.
we can spend our money, our efforts and our energy much better that way.
the undersigned wish to emphasize that high environmental and safety standards are more important than competitiveness.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97).
i can also support the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment for the most part.
it is very good that a vision for sustainable tourism is now being developed at european level.
there are often disaster scenarios that link the spread of some tropical diseases and their mutations to global warming.
in the meantime, a society has emerged with great differences between people in terms of control and income and with great neglect of nature, landscape and the environment.
it has nothing to do with the protection of man and the environment, which is our priority as socialists.
no one is interested in a new arms race that will waste money and create new threats.
secondly: sustainable fish.
consumers should be able to buy sustainable fish, sustainable tuna certified by mse or a similar body.
sustainable fish is first and foremost fish that is not overfished.
article 7 of the protocol states that the eu is to contribute to the long-term sustainability of the tuna fisheries.
what action will you take to ensure that the indian ocean tuna is also sustainable tuna in the short term?
what capacity should the government of the comoros develop to ensure sustainable tuna fishing and what support is the european union providing for this?
sustainable fish also means fish without by-catch of endangered species.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we believe that high social and environmental standards are fundamental for sustainable development and cooperate with our trading partners to this end in all relevant instances, be they bilateral or multilateral.
the commission supports china's recent efforts to take greater account of environmental considerations and is actively engaged with china on ways to develop further environmental cooperation including technical assistance in the area of trade and the environment.
as a major energy consumer, europe must prepare for the shift from fossil fuels to alternative energy sources.
these so-called renewable sources of energy are not even part of the solution.
such energy sources have already in the past consumed a disproportionate share of the european budget without ever being or becoming profitable.
it is time for europe to turn its attention to renewable energy which will eventually meet the needs of our industries and consumers and to break free from the grip that the environmental lobby has been placing on us for years.
we must stop being naive and dare to invest in nuclear energy and fusion.
in recent years there have been gigantic scientific breakthroughs in these fields, but europe is in danger of missing the boat in this field because thinking about nuclear energy has remained stagnant here for the past 20 years.
a climate of piracy and counterfeiting not only harms european companies but also hinders the innovative nature of local chinese companies.
apart from the serious environmental concerns about nuclear energy, there is nothing wrong with asian countries bringing their technology up to par with that of europe and north america.
the report takes little account of the developments that china has undergone and ignores the fact that as china develops further, there will be more attention paid to the position of minorities and the environment in the country itself.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a manner that is compatible with the common market.
the committee on the environment has adopted 90 amendments, and the council has accepted 50 of them in full.
we have had a regulation on the shipment of waste since 1993. it appears that this regulation is not being properly applied.
there are a lot of illegal waste shipments.
you are probably familiar with the example of a british company which was caught illegally exporting to china in march this year as many as 60 shipping containers of rotting and smelly household waste.
last week the uk environment agency announced that a survey of shipping containers found that 75% of waste shipments were illegal.
in france, in june 2005, it was even found that 100% of the waste shipments checked were not in order.
we can conclude from this that it is very important that there are clear rules for waste shipments and that structural good enforcement is needed.
in addition, member states are obliged to cooperate in the prevention and detection of illegal shipments of waste.
i think that the environment is not being helped by a legal battle between the european institutions.
he has devoted himself to the problem of waste and has shown himself to be a staunch defender of environmental quality.
waste must be transported for processing and recovery.
if it's good, we'll have less and less waste.
for a waste to be processed in a meaningful way, it needs mass.
in order to be profitable, waste must be of a certain size.
the waste markets have therefore become cross-border and common rules are therefore urgently needed.
i think it is clear that the first priority is to protect the environment.
it is all too easy to put an abandoned ship to the dock for the last time in a country where environmental regulations are not so important.
unfortunately, waste treatment is still a sector with a reputation for illegal practices, whether justified or not.
in the interests of the waste sector, illegal practices must be tackled.
waste treatment is a normal and respected activity, vital to society, the economy and the environment.
small shipments of waste, for example, waste generated during transport, do not require complicated procedures.
the pse group supports the compromise package put forward by mr blokland and we will in no way support the green amendments on animal waste.
finally, much remains unclear in the waste sector.
framework legislation to promote waste prevention, reuse and recycling.
legislation that gives clear guidance to entrepreneurs and shows where the long-term environmental objectives lie.
legislation which will also promote employment in the waste sector, because that is what we urgently need.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an important item on the agenda tonight, greenhouse gases and particularly f-gases.
everyone agrees that urgent action is needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
as rapporteur, she has made a number of important suggestions to maintain the environmental quality of these proposals and she has made a strong effort.
instead of the legal basis of the internal market, it opts for the legal basis of the environment.
the internal market should be based on a high level of environmental protection.
if not, the environmental legal basis is more appropriate, as it allows member states to take further action themselves.
europe is not here to impose deterioration on the member states or to deprive them of the possibility of pursuing a decent environmental policy.
the legal basis for the environment is also clearly less complex and therefore also fits into the better regulation project that we all want.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
of course, there must be a good environmental reason for a ban.
in the committee on the environment, there was a strong majority in favour of limiting the use of f-gases.
of course, i understand all these arguments, but i think innovation is necessary and that we really need to put an end as soon as possible to the use of the most harmful greenhouse gases.
we must of course look very carefully at the environmental impact of bans and we must ensure that restrictions on market access are proportionate; we would like to do that in consultation with the council.
there is a broad consensus in parliament on the need for an ambitious climate policy.
unfortunately, it seems that a broad consensus for strong climate policy has not been matched by the automotive industry.
i am in favour of a long-term ban on the use of fluorinated gases in these applications, but we are not sure whether the alternatives are actually more energy-efficient.
in future, a review of this directive could lead to a ban, but only if research shows that this is really more energy efficient.
my final comment is on amendment no 19. mr president, we have just been discussing my own report on transfrontier waste shipments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
we should not therefore make an exception to the normal permitting procedure for waste transport.
it would be very strange if we were to vote tomorrow for a coherent approach to waste transport, and then the day after tomorrow we are still missing the point of a uniform approach.
secondly, the environment and food safety.
on the other hand, if the european union is to contribute to the quality of society, we must be tough on the environment, human rights and good governance.
the bulgarian government seems to have picked up the reins with renewed energy and determination after a period of stagnation and delay due to the parliamentary elections and the difficulties in forming a government.
i would like to call on the main political parties in romania, the romanian government and the president of the country to show the same unity of opinion on accession and not to waste precious time on political harassment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment.
commission, the wealth of energy resources in azerbaijan, nor the lofty words of democratisation and (geo) political stability should temporarily blind us to the fundamental shortcoming of azerbaijan and its people: the democratic rule of law is lacking!
the main factor is not the country of origin, but a production method that protects people and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, who has been appointed as the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
we reached an acceptable compromise in the committee on the environment on 4 october.
i also fully support the compromise reached in the committee on the environment.
we are losing some of the results achieved in the committee on the environment with this approach.
i understand his approach after the vote in the committee on the environment, given the limited support he received in the final vote.
reach is therefore good for public health, good for the environment and good for innovation.
it is a huge undermining if instead of 30 000 substances, only 8 000 substances are now subjected to the full reach test regime, because this will continue to create uncertainty for consumers, unnecessarily prolong the risk of allergy, cancer and occupational diseases and potentially toxic substances in the environment.
i am sure that many historians will be able to comment on what exactly happened in europe in the spring of 2005 in terms of attitudes, climate and the vote on enlargement.
waste is more than the radioactive material left over after decommissioning.
the rapporteur, mr harms, rightly proposes that energy companies should annually put money into a fund to cover all the costs of decommissioning, processing and storing radioactive waste.
the inclusion of these costs in the price of nuclear energy does not make it artificially cheap through subsidies and also shows how low the economic return is.
we agree with the proposal to draw up a list of criteria for decommissioning, which will be linked to reserve funds into which electricity companies will deposit sufficient funds for waste treatment and decommissioning.
an unbridled free market economy without restraint on excessive consumption and production leads to ever-increasing greenhouse gas emissions and thus to an aggravation of the problem.
and i mean that not only figuratively, but literally, when you look at the contribution of intensive livestock farming to carbon emissions.
the nuclear energy lobby is using the climate change issue to put itself back on the map.
and, strangely enough, they don't tell us about the huge mountains of waste that they're producing and that will be a big problem for us for the next 10,000 years.
let's not solve one environmental crisis with another.
the billions still going to the development and promotion of nuclear energy could be better spent on wind, solar and hydroelectric power.
emissions from the transport sector will still be 28% above 1990 levels in 2030. it is a difficult sector to take action on, because this sector is the symbol of an international free market economy.
unlike emissions trading, taxation cannot shift the burden onto developing countries.
there is also much good in fighting climate change.
for example, i wholeheartedly support the inclusion of air traffic in the emissions trading system and the revision of the 2001 directive on national emission ceilings.
we've been talking for years about drastic reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, but meanwhile, emissions are rising every year.
i would also like to congratulate mrs beckett on her commitment to climate policy.
ladies and gentlemen, parliament is today calling again for an ambitious climate policy, and there is every reason for that, as commissioner dimas has explained.
in montreal, we have to lay the foundations for a new climate policy.
we are facing a huge challenge: clean energy and cleaner transport, but also less energy consumption.
the only way to do this is to tackle the problems ourselves and show that the european economy is getting a huge boost from innovation, from more energy-efficient production, from more efficient production and from putting sustainable products on the market.
this can only be achieved if the european union also involves society in its climate policy.
since the proposal harmonises the standards of the member states for animal cases in the internal market and does not serve a direct environmental objective, only article 95 can be considered as the appropriate legal basis for this proposal.
we think that the registration procedure is not well regulated in the environmental field, and that a compromise has been reached on a number of other points, but with a small majority, so we are afraid that this is not a good proposal and that is why we will vote against it.
for months, a number of chemical companies have tried to torpedo a measure that has long been necessary for the environment and public health.
the second line is that of economy and trade, providing a better investment climate, also important.
only the third leg of the action plan addresses poverty reduction through the millennium development goals, such as promoting basic health care, improving education, protecting the environment and striving for jobs for as many people as possible.
burma can supply cheap raw materials because the people are more or less enslaved and nature and the environment are not protected.
but at the same time, it was the parties, particularly when i look at the green group and also partly the socialist group, that took the lead when it came to animal welfare, environmental and some other demands on european agriculture, to impose additional demands.
everything has a price and it has nothing to do with fair trade; if you do that, a high european standard in the field of food safety, the environment and animal welfare and then say "we'll just open the borders", and "we call that free trade" under very different conditions, that has nothing to do with fair free trade.
in the document setting out the effects of the judgment of 13 december 2005. i share the view of mrs roure and the commission that this is not just an environmental issue, but that it has implications in many other areas.
the aim of this review, as well as the lisbon strategy, is to create a competitive environment in which the sector operates as efficiently and effectively as possible.
and you may also have to be able to afford higher rates for certain luxury or environmental polluting factors.
the report on batteries and accumulators was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection considers that the 41 amendments to this report improve the council's common position.
however, in the committee on the environment we have not yet reached agreement on one important aspect, namely the reduction of the heavy metals mercury, cadmium and lead in some of the batteries.
the words 'can be carried by hand' are subjective and the environment committee therefore prefers a definition which includes a clear boundary.
in addition, amendment no 12 links it to consumer applications as defined in the directive on electronic waste.
the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment.
the committee on the environment feels that amendments nos 12 and 13 provide the greatest clarity on these definitions.
moreover, this provision is unnecessary, since the directive on electronic waste contains the obligation that batteries should always be removed from collected electrical equipment.
mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, i recommend that the plenary vote tomorrow on the amendments to the report, taking account of my comments.
in europe, these instruments can be a major step towards a better investment climate, and we can use them well at the moment.
i should try that, when i am drawing up a proposal on environmental or social policy, not knowing what the consequences are in the least.
the agreement does, however, provide for a substantial strengthening of the environmental elements in the directive.
the commission has also proposed that member states be obliged to levy tolls from 3.5 tonnes in 2012, with certain exceptions, to avoid excessive administrative costs and negative environmental impacts.
we want to have a positive impact on the environment and on the change in transport modes.
secondly, the money that the user pays should be invested in infrastructure and sustainable transport.
we are paying for it with air pollution, noise pollution and far too much space.
this allows interested governments to try to delay the transfer of environmental costs indefinitely.
furthermore, there is no guarantee that the toll revenue will go to sustainable means of transport such as the freight rail.
we can also expect women and women's networks to pay attention to sustainability.
sustainable fishing is essential to provide fish for future generations.
sustainable fishing methods with minimum by-catches and good control are essential.
sustainable fishing is only possible if consumers are fully involved.
today, we see russia as an ally and an energy supplier.