the issue of the expansion of large-scale industrial pig farming is becoming a major problem in poland, as raised by residents and environmental organizations.
often, this is done in violation of sanitary, veterinary, and environmental standards.
i ask the chairman to intervene again on this matter before the so far deaf and blind committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
silence on this issue is good for some large companies, including those outside europe, but it is not good for the sustainable economic and ecological development of our continent.
europe can of course play a huge role in the long-running global warming process, but only if self-discipline, solidarity and truth prevail over the vagueness of the law and the fraud and manipulation of emissions trading.
while it is true that the kyoto protocol is an international achievement that committed industrialized countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the negotiated scope of emission reductions is a political compromise.
it does not reflect the assumptions of scientists who calculate that 60% of carbon dioxide is needed to halt climate change, not 5% or 8%, which is something the union is proud of and which has also been achieved at the expense of countries where, unfortunately, the preaccession preparations have led to the destruction of industry.
land use change (forestry) is also being used as an instrument of the kyoto protocol's climate policy.
after all, there's really no reliable way of knowing how much carbon is being sequestered by trees - it's a process.
the burden of mitigating climate change should be shared equally across national responsibilities.
rich, developed, highly industrialized countries have benefited enormously from developing countries and are responsible for a huge amount of environmental destruction, but they are much less willing to take financial responsibility, whether it's the united states or the european union.
despite these shortcomings, we recognise the usefulness of the entry into force of the agreements, with the understanding that more stringent commitments to reduce emissions should be made.
climate change is a natural fact: there are warmer periods and colder periods.
there is no doubt that the increase in carbon dioxide in the air has a positive effect on crop production and that the excess carbon in the atmosphere is effectively absorbed by the biosphere: forests, humus, sea, etc.
on the other hand, there is no doubt that co2 emissions from industrial combustion processes are always accompanied by emissions of other gases that are clearly harmful to the environment: forests, agricultural production, architectural monuments and, above all, human health.
the kyoto protocol logically shifts the cost of reducing emissions from countries that have made the effort to countries that are not doing enough.
climate change has been and will be, and we have little control over it, but anthropogenic emissions into the atmosphere are a problem that humanity must address through collective effort.
the shift towards renewable energy and energy-efficient technologies is particularly welcome.
but let's not be fooled into thinking that every natural disaster, every storm or flood, drought or tsunami, is caused by greenhouse gas emissions.
transatlantic cooperation is an opportunity for us to find common responses to global threats to humanity, such as poverty, natural disasters, environmental degradation, the fight against aids, terrorist attacks.
what the world needs today is not the dominance of the united states, but the wise cooperation of the european union and the united states in the fight against terrorism and its roots, in efforts to promote democracy and respect for human rights, respect for international law and the development of a global civil society, joint initiatives for the economic growth of developing countries, for sustainable development, the eradication of hunger and the reduction of poverty on our planet.
support ukraine's market economy status; lead to the creation of a free trade area between ukraine and the european union; assist ukraine in its membership of the world trade organisation and the oecd; assist ukraine in its legislative alignment with the european union; establish a structured political dialogue and, within this dialogue, engage with ukraine on energy security and the fight against terrorism.
madam president, mr president of the commission, it is welcome that the european commission intends to concentrate its activities on three issues: economic growth, social affairs and environmental protection, but only time will tell whether and how this laudable triad will be put into practice.
firstly, the waste of effort and resources by excessive and often pointless bureaucracy constitutes a very important constraint on the union's economic development.
if we do not increase the growth potential, the medium and long-term sustainability of our economy, of our model of society, will not be possible and budgetary stability and macroeconomic stability in the short term will be seriously damaged by the lack of growth.
what is being asked, in the terms of article 104 of the treaty, is what relevant factors need to be taken into account when analysing why the excessive deficit has occurred or what needs to be done to restore a balanced situation, sustainability of public finances, reducing the level of the deficit below the reference value.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mr karel-heinz florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, for initiating the debate on the natura 2000 project.
the european environment action plan 2004-2010 is, in our view, lacking in many areas and does not cover all the issues.
however, the risk assessment is uncontroversial, which is why in many member states there is a need not so much for a national children's study, which is limited to a re-evaluation of the risk, but for immediate corrective action, both to minimise and above all to eliminate the source of the hazardous emissions, which will allow for the real saving of human health and life.
the plan should focus more on protecting the environment, including the local environment, and on establishing a european agency for toxic substances and a register of diseases, whose task, following the american model, would be to serve the citizens of the european union by using scientific achievements, providing reliable information and responding to public health threats.
it seems that the european agency for toxic substances and disease registry should complement the european centre for disease prevention and control and should work with the european environment agency.
the lisbon strategy states that sustainable development means taking account of both the environmental and social factors of development.
on behalf of myself and the green initiative association, i would like to draw your attention to the potential for environmental damage in the lower oder river, on the polish-german border between the cities of szczecin and schwedt.
i am convinced that in this place and in this time there cannot be a shortage of people who will fight to protect the environment from destruction.
women and the environment: as regards the measures currently being taken to integrate the gender dimension into the development cooperation policy of the european union, i would like to remind you that last april the european parliament and the council adopted a regulation on the promotion of gender equality in the community's development cooperation policies, strategies and interventions.
at the 49th session of the un commission on the status of women, the presidency recognised, on behalf of the european union, that gender equality and the empowerment of women were essential to sustainable development and poverty eradication.
major progress has been made in developing a competitive single european energy market, characterised by a level playing field.
in this respect, the role of national energy regulators is central.
third, we need to examine whether the present legislative provisions are adequate to achieve our objectives of a truly competitive eu-wide market with high levels of consumer and environmental protection, as well as security of supply.
the report should form a basis for a detailed, wide-ranging debate that enables conclusions to be drawn in 2006. finally, it should be noted that the entry into force of the new constitution with a specific energy chapter would be of assistance in developing a coherent energy policy for the community, strengthening the existing legal basis for action.
i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for your very substantial reply, but also for the deep knowledge of the polish energy sector which you have shown in answering questions from mr paleckis and mr posselt, who probably knows more about the bavarian shale than about polish power stations.
i wanted to thank you for saying that the european commission will require and enforce from the member states what they have committed to in the energy field.
there is no doubt that natura 2000 is a pillar of the european union's action for biodiversity, which is why the environment committee's initiative to hold a debate in the european parliament on the impact of the programme's activities and funding is important.
although the european commission has declared a strategic approach to the funding of the programme, i am afraid that the proposal to co-finance natura 2000 from different sources, including the rural development fund, the structural funds, the life plus financial instrument for the environment, will not provide a comprehensive, coherent and timely way of implementing the network.
the proposed reform of the common organisation of the sugar market is contrary to the objectives of the common agricultural policy, namely to ensure a decent standard of living for farmers and sustainable agricultural development, and is contrary to the lisbon strategy.
maintaining prices at levels three times as high as world market prices is becoming increasingly difficult to justify and will certainly not lead to a sustainable european sugar sector.
the goal is therefore to achieve a competitive sugar sector in the community, so that the remaining jobs in the sector enjoy long-term sustainability.
it is also important to have a long-term perspective, to bring prices and european production to a sustainable level and not to reopen the eba negotiations.
the introduction of gmos will lead to environmental destruction.
so i think that to say that we need a climate of trust on both sides is to put things on the wrong footing.
the tibetans have given enough evidence so far to show that they are doing the right thing and that they are building a climate of trust.
the last important point i wanted to make about enlargement is the need to develop a concept and strategy for action towards third countries on the enlarged external border to the east, the new judicial and home affairs environment.
the lack of funds for their modernisation leads to a steady decline in the living standards of their inhabitants, excessive energy consumption and negative consequences for the environment.
in support of the desire to ask this question, i would also like to draw attention to the need to present not only the costs and burdens reflected in the net balance sheet, but also the benefits that the old member states of the european union have received, probably also unevenly distributed - benefits concerning both the growth of trade, the growth of capital investment, the increase in the market for large public procurement, the increase in environmental protection and other elements.
the liberalisation of the services market would be a prerequisite for growth, which is already a myth, sustainable and lasting, because, despite the long-standing treaty provisions on freedom of economic exchange, it remains a fiction.
this happened because the new countries offered a little bit lower taxes, a little bit cheaper labor, while stabilizing the legal environment for doing business, also through integration.
is culture the whole environment of a person and his whole way of life, or just the cultural products?
(applause) (laughter)
the problem of groundwater pollution due to human and industrial demand is a very important factor in the existence of any agglomeration and all countries.
as regards the draft directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution, it appears that further work is still needed, in particular to identify pollutants that are major sources of environmental hazards, together with the need to establish a limit value for naturally occurring substances that have been reported as active ingredients in biocidal products and for which the natural background level is higher than the proposed standard.
i also think that it should be made clear that, in order to protect groundwater, prevention is needed, as well as education, which would consist in informing the public about the state of water pollution, informing them about methods of protection and their implementation.
also economic action to protect water through not only charges for use but also penalties for waste and pollution, and finally enforcement action through legal provisions, provisions that should be enforceable.
(parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, groundwater is exposed to all kinds of pollution in ways that are unimaginable to citizens, and that is why education and prevention are of the utmost importance.
it should be conducted in schools, but also among the main users who poison the environment as if they were immortal.
the natural environment of central and eastern europe was exploited by heavy industry, subordinated to the arms industry.
mr president, the commission believes that, given the current lack of knowledge about the environmental quality of groundwater and the great variety of natural conditions in europe, it is not technically feasible, nor even desirable, to establish new standards for an extended list of substances on this basis at european union level.
however, greater flexibility cannot mean compromises on environmental objectives, and the text must be as clear as possible on this point.
however, references to parameters relating to drinking water, as set out in amendments 3 and 4, seem to be out of place, since the proposal focuses on environmental objectives relating to groundwater, while drinking water measures are adequately covered by article 7 of the water framework directive.
the nitrates directive has helped to reduce pollution from agriculture and will continue to do so in the future.
in addition, the fact that in 2003 producers made a number of costly investments to meet eu standards while respecting environmental requirements is a reason for the increase in quotas for poland.
we believe, however, that even if desirable in absolute terms, peace in darfur alone would not be sustainable and that it should be part and parcel of a political solution for the entire country.
the sustainable reinforcement of african capabilities could be fast-tracked if the lessons learned from this operation were applied to the security sector as well.
this interest is confirmed by the partnership and cooperation agreement concluded in 1995. particular attention should be paid to those areas of concern which concern human rights and the democratisation of life, environmental protection and energy.
it is certainly true that if the luxembourg presidency succeeds in agreeing a multiannual perspective, it will be easier for us to agree the 2006 budget with the british presidency in a better climate.
this leads to a deterioration of the market for the trade in this raw material and further degradation of the extractive industry, which is after all working for the energy needs of the union.
it goes without saying how important cooperation with russia is for the european union and, for example, how important energy security is for the european union, which russia can provide in part.
but it's hard not to be concerned about the way the big energy companies in russia are operating.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
so with the energy policy that minister schmidt was talking about, about removing barriers, that there is a prospect of removing barriers in energy cooperation.
does this mean - and this is my question to the council and the commission - that a baltic pipeline, which could run along the bottom of the baltic sea and which could mean a diversification of the energy security of the various countries of the european union, would be accepted by the council and the commission or not?
the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover all types of waste.
since the polish parliament has not recently passed a resolution to change this law to environmental protection, this practice will continue, preying on polish potential car buyers and whistling in the face of what is in force in the european union, and supposedly equality here.
as for the level of british pilots, i have no doubt that they are among the best in the world, and i have no doubt about the level of british airlines, so i have no fear in using them, and i am sure that even in a very complicated environment, an appropriate solution can be found that takes into account the legitimate demands of women.
the companies point out that chinese producers do not include in the cost of production insurance premiums and social benefits for workers, as well as environmental standards, which allows them to significantly undercut the prices of exported products.
bees are also vital to the preservation of the environment.
the draft inspire directive provides for the establishment of rules for the establishment of spatial information infrastructure for the purposes of community environmental policies in the member states.
but we are aware that it has not only an economic dimension, but also a social, ecological and cultural one.
this thesis is supported by economic, economic, environmental and social arguments, including demographic ones.
so we have to think not only about the development of rural areas, about agricultural and forestry production, but above all about people, especially as these economically poor regions are very rich in terms of culture and environment.
the new policy is designed to help restructure and modernise agriculture, and to make it more competitive while protecting the environment.
mr president, we are witnessing a real improvement in the climate of cooperation between europe and america - this is good news for america's friends in europe; may there be more of this news.
to this end, a new agreement is needed which should lead to closer cooperation between the european union and the united states for freedom, peace and security and, where necessary, to joint preventive action to avoid a humanitarian or environmental disaster.
we are still very far apart on global warming and we know that without the united states we cannot foresee a follow-up to the kyoto agreement.
so there is something to be said about the americans finally joining this multilateral approach to global warming.
on climate change, we are negotiating with the us on an environment declaration.
we would like to see a substantial commitment to working towards a long-term international regime on climate change post-2012.
we will, therefore, be working to relaunch a high-level eu-us dialogue on the environment.
the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in a global economy, while respecting environmental and occupational safety conditions.
i believe that creating a favourable environment for the development of the sme sector, simplifying and creating new regulations will help to increase employment.
we are coming from the cold of yalta, but the climate in europe is becoming chilly and egoistic.
the first is to increase the use of renewable energy.
their environmental benefits are obvious and undeniable.
i wanted to talk about not just electricity issues, but energy security in general.
i consider unacceptable those elements of the european union's energy policy which make the member states completely dependent on a single source of supply, as is the case for oil, for example, or, above all, for the guaranteed supply of gas to poland from russia in the form of projects.
it concerns issues related to cross-border supplies and the core energy network.
small-scale energy based on small hydro, wind, geothermal, gas, biomass, etc.
power plants is also important for energy security in individual regions.
the development of this energy is justified for ecological reasons, reduces transmission costs, reduces the effects of failure on the highway networks.
the development of regional and small-scale energy networks requires investment, including investment in research.
the small energy sector often faces problems in connecting to the grid and synchronising the activities of its producers.
the three main aspects of energy security that were not adequately addressed in the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council are:• the aspect of increased use of renewable energy sources,• the sustainable use of different types of primary fuel,• the differentiation of supplies from different production centres (oil and gas fields) within one type of primary fuel.
the energy security of the uk, germany and italy should not be achieved at the expense of poland's dependence on russian oil and gas and the threat to ukraine's economic stability.
"the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning measures to safeguard security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment regulates many areas of common european energy market.
i indicate three major aspects of the energy security which are not adequately underlined: · enhanced use of renewable energy sources· balanced use of various types of primary fuels· diversification of supplies from various production centres (oil and gas fields) within one type of the primary fuel.
energy security of great britain, germany and italy should not be achieved at the cost if polish dependency and a threat to ukrainian economic stability."
i agree, of course, with the amendments proposed by the commission, which say that housing as such must not be financed, and i welcome the clarification by commissioner hübner that housing expenditure that leads to energy savings and also to environmental protection is eligible.
the eligibility needs to be extended to new areas that promote sustainability - energy efficiency, renewable energy, carbon capture or green public transport.
although we hear about sustainability all the time, it's mostly just empty words.
it is time for the words 'a europe of equal opportunities and sustainable development' to finally have legislative force.
there are new funding possibilities to enhance and protect the environment in natura 2000 areas concerned by fisheries activities.
the commission is not prepared to move on this point, which for us remains a fundamental pillar of sustainable fisheries.
the commission proposal also contained some special rules, such as liability for defective products or for damage to the environment.
i referred to liability for defective products, which provides for full consumer protection, or environmental liability.
firstly, as i said earlier, the commission also believes that those special areas, such as environmental protection, deserve differential treatment, and so i would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to this.
by broader needs, i mean the tacis programme that focuses on support for the population itself in different sectors, including good governance, sustainable development, the social sector, education, health, the environment and economic development, and also alleviation of the problems caused by the chernobyl catastrophe, which figures prominently on our assistance programme.
the polish experience shows that effective and sustainable economic reform can only begin after political change.
it lies within the region and within the people whose energy and talents have outlived the years of conflict and it depends on their willingness to demand that their decency, hope and integrity are fully reflected.
many of the problems we face today, such as climate change, which will clearly be one of the significant items being discussed in gleneagles over the days to come, can only be solved through action by all.
consequently, the european union aims to encourage a process of transition to pluralist democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and sustainable recovery and improvement in the living standards of the cuban people.
the proposed life+ merger of existing environmental support programmes into one financial instrument is justified as a safeguard against duplication of effort.
this is a fully justified approach in the context of the current environmental challenges.
the protection of nature and biodiversity, including natura 2000, is included in the priorities of the programme, but it is emphasised that the co-financing of natura 2000 is intended to be complementary in nature, i.e.
we cannot operate in such a way that we have a dirty battle, a dirty battle between the needs of local communities, between the protection of the environment, rare species of animals and plants, and the needs of the people who live and work in a particular area.
the best example of bad decisions is the us, which lost 65% of its market share to china after two years, when it abandoned quota controls in 2002. the chinese problem is not just cheap clothing imports, but also unfair practices: government subsidies, tax breaks, land grants, energy subsidies and transportation subsidies.
although the civil war ended seven years ago, the climate of violence and intimidation continues, with children and youths increasingly becoming the victims.
while the mining waste directive aims to prevent and minimise the negative effects of waste on the environment and human health, it is an environmentally deficient, sometimes irrational, document that serves the development of bureaucracy.
therefore, in the pre-accession period, poland sought to relax certain requirements concerning the provision of financial guarantees by operators of waste disposal facilities, which is not applied even in very harmful industries.
despite earlier findings on the draft directive, after its transmission to parliament, the envi committee adopted amendments that were very unfavourable to the polish mining industry, imposing burdens that led to non-competitiveness and, in the case of lignite, created a risk of bankruptcy with a threat to energy security in poland.
the document places too much responsibility on industrial entities, and equates hazardous waste with non-hazardous waste, all of which will significantly increase operating costs, the need to allocate huge financial expenditures from the state budget for inventorying and recultivating facilities.
the proper management of waste from the extractive industries has a significant environmental impact, especially in areas with a high concentration of extraction, where quite often different raw materials are extracted for several hundred years.
in many cases, it was a predatory economy, destroying deposits and the environment, not paying attention to waste management.
the proposed inventory of waste generated and generated in the course of current operations can only determine the needs and technological possibilities for its management.
the result is the bankruptcy of the poorly financed plants and the abandonment of their waste.
in conclusion, we are discussing the 2006 budget in a climate of some doubt.
finally, thirdly, as the commission, we have unanimously rejected the council's proposal, particularly as regards the protection of marine waters against pollution.
written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the debate on the report by mr queiró, drawn up on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on new prospects and new challenges for sustainable european tourism (a6-0235/2005) (com (2004) 2229 final).
the draft resolution of the european parliament on new prospects and new challenges for sustainable european tourism has attracted considerable interest from the committee on culture and education.
economic, cultural, natural and social) and the need to value seasonal tourism, the link between tourism development and the protection of national, regional and local culture, as well as the natural environment, parks, landscapes, urban planning, architectural ensembles and objects, the use of tourism for economic development, job creation and the preservation of human physical and mental health, the proper management of tourism resources, the development of agro-tourism (particularly in the new member states) and the education of young people in the field of cultural, sporting, sporting, sporting and cultural activities.
the result is an interesting document which, although dominated by organisational and economic issues, notes the timeless values, including culture, nature, the natural environment of man.
these issues will need to be given more attention in future work on sustainable tourism development.
we need to create educational programs that prevent the destruction of the natural environment and the historical heritage.
new initiatives for sustainable tourism are needed.
economic conditions and liberal lifestyles discriminate against women who give birth to children, as well as against morally sound families, which are the only environment for normal growth and coexistence in mutual respect and love, which requires legal support and pro-family policies.
however, it has also been said that we must measure the social, environmental and, i would even say, the heritage effects.
at a time when two issues are threatening the peace and security of the world economy, namely international terrorism and the rise in prices and instability in the energy markets, when everyone understands that this requires global cooperation, when the european union should give the world an example of collective wisdom and solidarity in action, chancellor schröder and president putin loudly and clearly declare that only the selfish interests of germany and russia matter to them.
we firmly state that the pipeline agreement is directed against the member states of the european union poland, the baltic states and other countries, condemning them to the energy dictates of russia.
the argument of the latter is to secure energy for germany, but that is only half the truth.
so the agreement only covers that excess stock of fish within the limits of sustainability.
given the differences in development in the 25 and soon 27 member states, action in the areas of transport, tourism, environment, innovation and research is particularly important.
we shall continue to address the broader needs of the population with the tacis programme and focus on health and social issues, higher education, training and environmental matters.
at the same time, it is a country that imports up to 70% of its energy from outside and is dependent on foreign aid.
the energy crisis and the prospect of the depletion of non-renewable biofuels in the face of growing demand and the need to protect the environment are generating a growing interest in renewable energy sources.
mr. turmes mentioned the sun, and it's worth knowing that if you were to burn all the fossil fuels, oil, gas, coal, wood, all of them, with 100 percent efficiency, the amount of energy you would get would be equal to the amount of energy the sun would deliver to the earth in just four days.
this is a multi-dimensional issue: technical and scientific, environmental, climate, economic, social and defence.
energy from renewable sources should be used in accordance with the technological priorities of the country.
in poland, the climate and agricultural conditions make biofuels a priority requiring rapid support, with geothermal energy in second place.
this is due to, inter alia, the low efficiency of heat-to-electric conversion, as well as logistical and environmental problems.
in addition, biomass for wood products must be dried by evaporating about 20% of the water, which consumes additional energy.
another priority for poland could be the energy contained in municipal waste, whose sources are not only renewable but are increasing rapidly and alarmingly.
so it's by definition a renewable energy source.
existing technologies, including pyrolysis, make it possible to extract hydrocarbons from waste and convert them into electricity at high efficiency.
the two-fold effect is achieved: energy and a kind of secondary recycling and the elimination of landfills.
the commission should recognise this type of energy as renewable.
all the speakers raised legitimate concerns: the shortcomings of democracy; the vulnerability and fragility of human rights, including the rights of employees; the extremely low wages and the low environmental standards which make china very competitive.
they are forced into a race to the bottom; they are forced to lower their social and environmental standards, if they want to be competitive.
i refer to the dialogue on employment and social standards; the partnership on climate change; and the working group on intellectual property rights.
it should have a substantial trade and investment component, but it should also cover energy, political dialogue, social issues, human rights and a number of other fields.
we support the international atomic energy agency in bringing the iranian nuclear issue to the attention of the un security council.
of course, urban affairs cannot be considered in isolation from the urban environment that forms agglomerations, nor can they be considered without taking into account the existence of large rural areas.
specific and difficult to solve are the issues of civil engineering, covering urban transport, energy supply, water, sewage disposal, waste disposal, etc.
on the other hand, cities also have some of the most complex problems, such as social exclusion, geographical and ethnic segregation, insecurity, drugs, pollution, illicit trafficking and unemployment.
in the new member states in particular, we see complex urban problems related to housing, inadequate infrastructure, transport, environmental problems and waste disposal.
first of all, i would like to emphasise that these nets do not pose a serious threat to marine biodiversity, unlike their counterparts used in other areas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
given the specific nature of the baltic's natural environment, the significant differences between its western and eastern parts, the new countries' voice on the regulation under consideration had to be heard and, i hope, was heard.
international organizations are sounding the alarm as the environmental bombs of improper chemical waste disposal are increasingly threatening us.
it is estimated that only some 25 000 tonnes of pesticides are stored in the eight central european countries that joined the european union in 2004. in the countries of the former soviet union, our neighbours to the east and south, closer and further away, there may be over 200,000 tonnes of obsolete and unprotected chemical waste lying in storage, blown by the wind and washed away by rainwater.
the new proposal on the control of waste trade was to be in the spirit of the principle of better regulation, adopted jointly by the european parliament, the european commission and the council in 2001, with the aim of creating the best possible legislation and introducing beneficial, clear rules.
however, the draft report contains, in my view, unnecessary provisions which, instead of improving the shipment of waste, impose unnecessary restrictions and hamper the development of this sector of the economy.
in order to reduce the movement of waste, the rapporteur proposed that waste should not be allowed to be exported if it can be disposed of at the place of production.
for the new member states, this would be impossible to achieve, as it is difficult to imagine thousands of new installations in waste storage and generation sites.
i am in favour of the free movement of waste within the common market.
examples include the addition of ships and aircraft to the list of hazardous waste and the ban on the export of ships and aircraft for scrapping.
i also find it difficult to understand the issue of tightening the rules on the export of waste generated by households.
again, this issue is governed by the landfill directive 1999. this also applies to the issue of trade in animal waste, which is covered by the existing veterinary directive.
i believe that the rules should be harmonised and clarified in the context of an international convention, but that the opportunity should not be used to set new standards and change environmental objectives.
this legal framework should take into account ethical considerations while creating a climate conducive to innovation, scientific development and business.
the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of financial assistance for the trans-european transport and energy networks is a necessary and justified regulation.
i would like to focus on just one project, one example, which fits into the proposed establishment of a common energy area of the european union, namely the baltic gas pipeline project.
the construction of trans-european transport and energy networks is of vital importance for the union, and in particular for the 10 new member states.
in particular, we are opposed to reducing spending on the protection of marine waters against pollution.
title:- regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases.
- and a draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on emissions from certain air-conditioning systems in motor vehicles and amending council directive 70/156/eec.
why introduce another environmental regulation when statistical analyses show that the harmfulness of f-gases is negligible, even close to statistical error?
what we have here is a complete lack of a sustainable approach to environmental and industrial development.
there is no doubt that the effects of the reduction of fluorinated gases will be disproportionate in economic terms in most of the new member states to the environmental effect.
the commission will continue its efforts in the fight against drug trafficking, improving border management, energy networks and transport networks.
we are in favour of rejecting a project whose phonetic similarity to the acronym itself indicates that it was created exclusively for the rich, who, after long deliberation, have prepared an authoritarian and centralistic plan of action - under the auspices of health and environmental protection, of course - which is to lead to the bankruptcy of small and medium-sized enterprises with the inevitable consequence of hundreds of thousands of people out of work.
the takeover of the market by the big chemical companies will bring few profits, and any hypothetical improvement in health from the theoretical improvement in the environment will be incomparably small compared to the health losses of the frustrated unemployed, deprived of livelihoods, opportunities for existence, development and hope.
a project should be prepared that is aimed at genuine protection of human health and the environment, rather than being primarily business-related.
fortunately, the rapporteur has a compromise version, which reconciles the interests of large, medium and small businesses, but also the interests of consumers and workers who care about the environment.
this is a huge expansion, and therefore a blurring of the scope of the regulation to that part of matter that we know is not energy.
i can fully agree with mr swoboda that the best service the european union can now provide so that the negotiations are successful and the settlement is sustainable is for us to be supportive but critical.
the commission’s role is to facilitate a balanced and sustainable settlement.
the next item is the debate on - the report by rebecc harms, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation implementing protocol no 9 to the act concerning the conditions of accession of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia to the european union, on the bohunice v1 nuclear power plant in slovakia (com (2004) 0642 - c6-0205/2004 - 2004/0221cns) (a6-0282/2005) and - the report by rebecc harms, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the use of financial resources for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants (2005/2727 (a27/06ini))
member of the commission.
that is the basic truth that we should confront when discussing nuclear energy.
competition issues definitely will not be excluded from the debate, because it is very important to know what support schemes we are providing for other parts of our energy mix.
we should continue this debate when we discuss energy issues.
it is difficult to accept a report that is so unconstructive in its suggestions for concrete solutions to climate change, and without a financial analysis.
nor are the millennium development goals or the kyoto protocol, which commit governments and companies to implement policies and programmes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to introduce emissions trading schemes and to introduce energy-saving legislation, enough.
the european parliament will once again present its position on climate change at the un in late november and early december.
before it is discussed at international level, it is important that it best reflects the interests of all the member states of the union, including the role of nuclear energy, as mrs grossetête and mr hökmark have rightly said.
given that greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise in many member states, full implementation of the un convention and the kyoto protocol will require greater participation of individual citizens in the overall effort to reduce emissions and develop a more sustainable lifestyle.
in this context, an important aspect in the fight to reduce co2 emissions is the so-called integrated approach involving politicians, industry and society.
an integrated approach is a more efficient and less costly way of reducing co2 emissions.
this is in line with the european climate change programme ii announced in october 2005. while moving beyond a fossil-fuel economy is a historic opportunity for entrepreneurship, it is important to remember that many countries - particularly developing countries - have renewable energy resources but do not currently have the technologies to exploit them.
energy subsidies are also a major issue in the negotiations on reducing greenhouse gases.
there are already many ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
energy-efficient and low-emission technologies are an effective means of combating environmental pollution, but they should not be confused with the rapporteur's proposal to reduce subsidies for fossil fuels as a sine qua non for the introduction of modern environmental protection solutions.
it has also been marked by a strong emphasis from many speakers on renewable resources, with various examples of this being cited, and also by strong differences of opinion over nuclear power.
i would say to the last speaker, mrs harms, that if the only aspect of the climate change debate she heard in the uk was that of nuclear power, then she must have moved in very restricted circles, because there is a great deal being discussed in the uk, which has not actually made a fresh commitment to nuclear power, despite a commitment to discussing it.
in fact, energy efficiency is top of the uk’s list of policies for tackling climate change, just as she would wish.
some speakers emphasised the damage caused by air pollution by the same gases that are contributing to climate change, while others emphasised that, as we tackle climate change, we will derive other potential health benefits from the reduction in the use of those gases.
as she may know, in countries such as new zealand, livestock are the source of almost all greenhouse gas emissions, making this a particularly difficult problem to solve.
i am sorry mr hegyi is opposed to carbon capture and storage.
it is surely better for us to try to find ways of helping them to do that sustainably, through technologies like carbon capture and storage, rather than simply telling them not to use those power sources, which i fear would be fruitless.
that brings me to the comments by both mrs lucas and mr smith, who quite rightly praised the ambition of the wijkman report in setting a target of a 60% reduction in emissions by 2050, without apparently being aware that this is the target the uk government set in its own energy white paper in 2003. perhaps, though, this should come as no a surprise, since mrs lucas had nothing good to say about the uk’s approach.
however, i must put it firmly on the record for her and on behalf of this council that it is a waste of everybody’s time to demand that the eu deliver a formal mandate and a formal timetable in montreal.
the need to act urgently to tackle climate change was underlined by mr wijkman and others.
the european union's first priority in montreal is to build broad international support for further action and obtain agreement on starting a formal process to discuss the shape of a future multilateral climate change regime.
targets have proven to be a very useful tool in environmental policy making.
targets will therefore remain a core element of any future climate change architecture.
as you will be aware, the european council of last march set down a pathway target of 15% to 30% of emissions reductions by 2020. however, the commission believes that the time has not yet come to set concrete targets for developed countries in montreal in december.
mr seeber has underlined that any future climate change regime will have to build on broad participation on all major emitters and that is of key importance if our cooperation is to be truly efficient.
we have engaged in policy dialogue with the united states administration within the united nations framework agreement on climate change and within other fora and meetings, such as the joint climate change science and technology workshop.
that covers concrete topics such as renewable energy, energy efficiency and carbon sequestration.
the united states claims that is has a different approach to fighting climate change, based mainly on the research and development of new technologies.
the difference between their approach and our approach is that they have seen an approximate 15% increase in carbon dioxide emissions while the european union of 25 has seen a considerable reduction compared with 1990 levels, and the 15 member countries under the kyoto regime obligations are 1.7% under the 1990 level.
as regards developing countries, the european union has an open mind on how they should participate in future multilateral climate cooperation.
china and other developing countries have contributed to the formation of the greenhouse phenomenon by a much smaller percentage than the developed countries, and per capita emissions in china are currently less than one tenth of the levels in the developed world, so we should follow that example.
mr verges mentioned that we should take particular care of developing countries and their increasing needs arising from global warming.
in addition, the european union is the major contributor to the 2001 bonn political declaration which pledges usd 410 million per year in climate change funding for developing countries, starting this year.
at the october environment council, ministers committed themselves to communicating at montreal the progress being made towards delivery on this target.
however, this partnership can support our efforts under the climate change convention and the kyoto protocol through closer bilateral cooperation that includes both a stronger political dialogue and a focus on technology.
in relation to china, we also see an important focus on the development and demonstration of near-zero emissions power generation, and i agree with mrs beckett that carbon capture and storage is one of the means of tackling the problem of climate change.
these partnerships will have the positive and immediate effect of supporting the discussions on a multilateral climate change regime post-2012.
that is why we included additional measures in the climate change programme that we launched a month ago.
mrs doyle, mrs grossetête and others asked about emissions from cars.
i fully agree that this is a vital issue and that is why, in 2006, the commission will review the agreement with the car industry in order to assess the possibility of reaching the community objective of 120 g/km by a certain point, having made sure, of course, that we reach the target, voluntarily agreed with the car industry in europe, japan and korea, of 140 mg. mrs ek referred to the inclusion of transport in european union emissions trading.
on renewable energy, the commission will put forward, in the weeks to come, a new report assessing a target for renewable energy by 2020. regarding nuclear energy and the remarks made by mr hökmark, some member states expect nuclear energy to be a part of their future energy.
however, we have to ensure that we have a broad range of energy sources that are low in carbon.
nuclear power will not be able to meet the increased energy demands and we should also be aware that nuclear power faces problems concerning nuclear waste and public opinion.
with regard to what mrs gutiérrez-cortines said about agriculture, the commission agrees that synergies can be found between climate change and agriculture.
we had an extremely interesting meeting in london, organised by mrs beckett and the uk presidency, on climate change and agriculture and very important conclusions were reached there.
finally, winning the battle against climate change requires determined action, starting now.
winning the battle against climate change will take time, of which we have precious little, and efforts that some will argue we cannot afford.
attention should also be paid to the positive ecological aspect of the northern dimension as a valuable and sensitive ecosystem, and therefore in this context cooperation in environmental protection and the promotion of sustainable development.
the decision to build the plant was taken without any consultation with the governments of the baltic sea countries and it has seriously undermined the energy security of many countries.
the baltic gas pipeline project also poses a major threat to the baltic sea environment.
secondly, the analysis of poverty as a multidimensional phenomenon, which requires a range of responses and a balance between the socioeconomic and environmental pillars of sustainable development.
fifthly, all the priorities mentioned in the resolution are covered by the community's areas of action: the prevention and treatment of aids and other diseases, reproductive health, gender equality, adaptation to climate change, trade for development, conflict prevention, good governance, the fight against corruption, the promotion of decent work, including the fight against child labour.
the union's objectives, in particular the promotion of harmonious, sustainable and sustainable development throughout the community, a high level of employment, social protection, an improved quality of life and economic and social cohesion, together with solidarity between the member states, give the impression that another paradise on earth will be achieved.
the construction of the northern gas pipeline, which, despite protests and against the economic interests of the baltic states and central europe, including poland, will bypass these countries and directly connect russia and germany, thus putting at risk the loss of one third of the union's energy security, started a few days ago.
the construction of the pipeline could lead to an ecological disaster in the baltic, where german chemical weapons were sunk after world war ii.
i'm calling for a parliamentary committee to clarify the issue of the construction of the gas pipeline, its risks to the environment and the energy security of many european countries.
storing and releasing energy requires the presence of many metals, toxic chemicals involved in the processes of batteries and accumulators.
batteries, as part of municipal waste, are a particularly hazardous element, containing many components with adverse effects both on the environment and on human health.
today, as a result of environmental efforts, many facilities have containers for used batteries, and even better is the collection of batteries.
although the amendment to the directive minimises the negative environmental impact of batteries and accumulators and prohibits the use of cadmium and mercury, some of the changes may put the battery industry at a much worse competitive disadvantage compared to non-european manufacturers who do not comply with the restrictive rules.
this not only reduces the quality of batteries and accumulators, but also the cost of sales, which in turn can cause environmental and health risks to users, especially young children.
i would like to thank mr blokland and to stress the importance of the batteries and accumulators directive and the waste batteries and accumulators directive for the protection of the environment.
studies have been conducted on people living in ecological areas and water sources, and in many cases metals similar to those used in batteries and accumulators have been found.
there are several problems, such as: underestimating the need and collection of batteries, the problem of popularizing the need for their collection and creating legal and financial means to support these activities, the problem of developing a culture and habit of collecting this waste in society, the problem of organizing and disposing of this pollution.
indeed, the directive aims at achieving both a high level of environmental protection and contributing to the proper functioning of the internal market.
indeed, the articles laying down provisions for the environmental protection are based on article 175 of the ec treaty.
thirdly, i turn to the collection targets – article 9(2) and (4) and amendments 26 to 28. the commission believes that setting collection targets in the proposed directive is necessary: firstly to ensure a minimum level of environmental protection in all member states and secondly to monitor the efficiency of the national battery-collection schemes.
it is important that the collection targets are ambitious in environmental terms, but they should also be achievable, realistic and cost-efficient.
i should like to point out that the commission reserves its opinion on the additional 18 amendments tabled before the plenary, since more time is needed to fully assess the environmental, economic and social impacts thereof.
i look forward to an early conclusion of the codecision process so that the directive can be implemented by the member states and we can achieve a high level of environmental protection in this area.
and although it was obvious that it was suitable because of the fact that environmental rules were violated, public procurement rules were violated, but above all, the basic human right was violated, the right to property, and these were often very modest people who just wanted to spend the rest of their lives in their little houses that they built for themselves.
we want valencia to introduce a new law, which it has already promised and which is a testament to the effectiveness of the work of the european parliament and our committee, which will take into account human rights, public procurement and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
among the environmental provisions negotiated in the accession treaties was the previous directive 91/157/eec setting the levels of recovery and disposal of batteries.
the european commission is now proposing a new system for the collection, treatment and disposal of waste batteries and accumulators.
this is certainly the right way to ensure safety and to improve the environmental quality of europe, but it must be done in a way that is consistent with existing solutions.
the new member states are only in the process of establishing a complex system for the collection of waste batteries based on the directive.
the aim is, of course, to improve transport infrastructure, not just road infrastructure, but also, as a result, to reduce congestion, reduce accidents and reduce emissions of harmful substances.
the directive is very important for the sustainable development of the transport sector, but - i am addressing myself to commissioner barrot - commissioner, we must systematically analyse the effects of this directive on both the hauliers and the road transport market, as well as the effects on the increase in the share of rail that we so desire.
there are too few forms of aid for so-called horizontal investment, which include, among other things, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, environmental protection projects, the development of research and the stimulation of innovation.
otherwise, it's just a waste of public money.
the dramatic nature of the current debate on the financial perspective is that it is not about money, but about a climate of confidence - firstly, and about the future of europe - secondly.
the climate of confidence, because it is a question of whether the promises that have not been kept, and also the words of the british prime minister, who spoke of the need to help the weaker countries, have any significance, or whether it is really a question of putting something else, which violates the principle of european policy, in the foreground.
the council has expressed support for future comprehensive multilateral negotiations, which reflects its wish for substantial progress in world trade liberalisation, securing continuing global economic growth, increased job creation, prosperity and sustainable development, and addressing the concerns of civil society.