the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a position on the constitution, which highlights the following main points: it is good that the implementation of the three pillars of sustainable development is included among the objectives of the union and that environmental integration and a high level of human protection are recognised.
it is a pity that the third part on the policies and functioning of the union is not in line with the principle of sustainable development, particularly in the fields of agriculture, cohesion, transport and trade policies.
certain environmental measures, such as those of a fiscal nature and those relating to land use planning, quantitative water management and land use, could be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure but continue to be adopted by the council by unanimity.
the importance of the responsibility of the community institutions towards citizens and the possibility of access to the courts for these and their organisations, particularly in the field of the environment, should be emphasized.
in articles 115 to 122 of part iii, the different union policies must take account of the promotion of equality between men and women, the protection of the environment and consumers, social rights, in particular employment, and the conditions necessary for public services or services of general economic interest to fulfil their missions.
it is therefore good news for the reaffirmation of the will that we must live in a society with high social protection and high environmental values.
i have always been struck by the climate of siege and manoeuvre, the lack of loyalty towards citizens, the fact that one often says one thing and actually does another, and even the gallantry with which the rule of law was trampled, an emblematic sign that 'anything goes' as long as it goes in a certain direction.
new standards are introduced on achieving a high level of employment, combating social exclusion and discrimination, promoting social justice, social protection, gender equality, a high level of education and health, promoting sustainable development and respect for services of general interest.
on the international scene, the eu's role in fighting poverty eradication and promoting sustainable development and fair trade is also being strengthened.
the warnings about climate change are repeated worldwide, and the responsibility for this is undeniable: an economic system that does not respect the balance between man and nature and the measures it takes, especially in the more developed countries, including the united states, which alone is responsible for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions.
the creation of an emissions trading system allows the most powerful countries to remain the biggest polluters, tying down the countries with the weakest economies.
more public investment is needed, both in research into new and more efficient clean energy sources and in aid for the implementation of existing ones.
the environmental consequences, particularly the climatic consequences, of human action must be studied, known and, consequently, minimised when they are negative.
in this context, the role played by the european union in the international efforts to combat climate change should be duly acknowledged and welcomed.
the continuing intensification of human activity has led to a substantial increase in greenhouse gases, which is expected to result in additional average warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere, potentially adversely affecting natural ecosystems and humanity.
last november, in my explanation of vote on the eu strategy for the buenos aires conference on climate change (cop-10), i wrote that i thought it was of the utmost importance 'that the eu delegation to the conference ... take a leading role in the negotiations, seeking to alert its international partners to the need to protect the climate'.
because i believe that the objectives i have set have been partly achieved and because the change in the earth's climate and its negative effects should be a common concern of mankind, i voted in favour.
but this must be accompanied by the fact that the resources thus freed up will be spent on sustainable development policies, and not on policies which cannot and should not be supported.
companies can only grow and develop if there is a climate of confidence, a general willingness to undertake in an investment-friendly environment.
i would like to conclude by saying that in my opinion it is worthwhile to study the advantages of leaving the office environment and going out into the streets, starting with ourselves, the members of the european parliament.
but it is only one of the objectives of the lisbon strategy, as important as cohesion and the environment.
i would like to begin by recalling that electronic means now exist which allow effective monitoring of the entire community fleet and also quick access to data of extreme scientific importance for the maintenance of sustainable fisheries.
the second major concern is that this agency will not serve to give community policies over to the games of interest and forces at play, because in such circumstances it is usually the smaller regions that lose out in the clearest way, as well as sustainable fishing itself.
there is no sustainable fishing without respect for nature and this is perhaps the biggest symbol of what is wrong with our common fisheries policy and, as has already been mentioned, just look at our neighbours in norway and iceland - this is not done, this is a practice that is in fact prohibited and it is absolutely regrettable that this is not happening among us.
joint development and initiatives are absolutely crucial in areas such as water, energy, transport, infrastructure and tourism to enable social progress and economic and regional integration.
promoting training and investing in the lifelong employability of our workers are sustainable ways of achieving greater competitiveness in the european economy.
it is essential that the application of sanctions be imputed to all those responsible for pollution of the marine environment.
in addition to the issues of preventing marine accidents, there is also the need to combat effectively the intentional marine pollution which constitutes the bulk of the pollution that the oceans are currently struggling with.
i have doubts about the legality of the introduction of criminal penalties on the basis of the article of the treaty on transport (article 80 (2)) and about the reasoning put forward by the commission and parliament that this would be lawful given the need for criminal penalties to achieve the objectives of european environmental and transport policy.
the intermodality projected in european transport policy and the ambition to achieve high levels of environmental protection and quality can only be realised if sectors of activity that embody these same aspirations are given a boost.
we voted in favour of this report which points out the significant backsliding in approach and ambition between the commission's environment and health strategy and what its implementation should be, namely the action plan.
the european parliament itself considers that the action plan can only be regarded, at best, as a research plan, which by itself does not reduce, at least in the immediate future, the health problems caused by environmental factors.
the examples cited highlight the criticism that only four of the thirteen actions defined in the commission's environmental and health strategy for 2004-2010 concern specific measures and no quantitative targets or the absence of any reference to the impact of pollution on mental and neurological health.
profile of the need to implement an action plan for the assessment and promotion of the environment and health with the child at its centre.
in view of this, i support the intention to speed up and improve the processes of information and communication so that the actual causal link between pollution and health is known more quickly and on a more substantiated basis.
this change, although expected, has a major impact on markets, mainly due to the influence of china, which, ignoring social or environmental concerns, allows its companies to practice exceptionally low prices.
europe must get used to competing with countries where labour is cheap, but europe cannot accept competition with companies that do not pay for energy, that use slave labour and children and that do not respect intellectual property.
at a time when the objectives of the lisbon strategy have just been revised, in the sense that a healthy and safe working environment is a decisive factor for the growth of the european economy and its continuity, i would like to say that there is no point in the wording of paragraphs 27 and 29 of the report under consideration.
the next item is the oral question (b6-0012/2005) by mr ransdorf, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, to the commission on the doubling of eu budgetary funds for research.
i reiterate my conviction that globalisation must be accompanied by increased efforts to reduce poverty, recognising the value of debt cancellation as a measure to combat poverty in countries making progress towards democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and a sustainable economy.
i would also remind you that this is a work done primarily by the wto as the main forum for managing globalisation through trade opening and the strengthening of multilateral rules, as well as the pursuit of sustainable development.
it must be acknowledged that the bank's activities have been progressively adapted to the concrete circumstances and the european economic environment and that this adaptation has been made by the institution without prejudice to the full and respectful fulfilment of its real mandate.
the fourth principle is that the bank's activities must have a concrete and measurable effect on job creation and a positive and favourable impact on the economic environment which also limits and conditions the full development of small and mediumsized enterprises.
the perverse effect of the stronger countries crushing the weaker ones once and for all, under the instrument which was intended precisely to support their development, must be considered and analysed, but it is also essential in europe that the opening up of low-cost countries to textile imports be accompanied by reciprocity on the part of the beneficiary countries and the gradual adoption of fairer trade rules in social, environmental and intellectual property terms, as proposed by the high level textile group.
this gives us the necessary assurance that the european investment bank will continue to play a crucial role in the union's institutional framework in financing small and medium-sized enterprises, thus contributing to the creation of a sound economy that creates more and better jobs and fosters sustainable growth.
i agree with the call for: - giving the utmost priority to tackling the problems of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and to creating sustainable, quality and entitled employment; - taking this reality into account in the definition of the broad economic policy guidelines, and in particular in the reform of the stability pact and the revision of the lisbon strategy, as well as in the decision on the financial perspectives and the structural funds for 2007-2013; and - supporting the structural development of the most disadvantaged regions, in particular the outermost regions.
the commission has not been able to do so in the committee on employment and social affairs, but it has been able to do so in the plenary, in particular in the following respects: - withdrawing criticism of the lisbon strategy as regards its contribution to accelerating liberalization/privatisation, labour flexibility and job insecurity; - insisting on the importance of the lisbon strategy for the future, without any revision, despite the current problems of unemployment and social exclusion; - removing references to the need for a review of current economic and financial policies, in particular the stability pact, the lisbon strategy, the internal market and competition policy, and giving priority to the pursuit of a high employment rate, sustainable, quality and rights-based employment; - rejecting, as the ps did, our request to the commission to withdraw the proposal for a directive on the creation of an internal market for services... (the minutes were approved)
in writing.
the idea that a country full of subsidies and public jobs is sustainable is an illusion and the right path to greater social injustice.
today, with growing social and territorial inequalities, unemployment reaching almost 20 million workers, increasing precariousness in employment and some 70 million people living in poverty, inclusion and social cohesion must be a priority, a central concern of this mid-term review of the lisbon strategy, which implies not only the creation of jobs with rights, but also a fairer sharing of the wealth created, with social policies focused on ensuring human rights, better pensions and reforms, quality public services in health, education, research and vocational training, social protection and security, housing and family support facilities, with particular attention to promoting equal rights for women and taking into account appropriate environmental policies.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented.
the mechanism also plays a key role in regulating trade flows in textiles and clothing, which is of the utmost importance for the defence of the european textile industry, given the abolition of tariff quotas on 31 december 2004. i also believe that one of the areas of promoting sustainable development is the improvement of the economic situation of developing countries, particularly those countries which are least integrated into the international trading system.
finally, the simplification achieved by reducing the number of schemes from five to three, with a general scheme, a special scheme to encourage sustainable development and good governance and a special scheme for the least developed countries (everything but arms) should be noted.
i therefore believe that the general meaning of the resolution in question is correct: sustainable growth and employment must be the eu's most urgent objectives and they will be the ones that will promote environmental and social progress.
sustainable development, social cohesion, improvement of working conditions and increased employment, continuing or dynamic training and the competitiveness of the economy are as relevant today as they were then.
at a time when the damage caused by conventional food production methods to both the environment and public health shows that it is imperative to look for alternatives, that it is necessary to guarantee access to safe food produced in a sustainable way, it is important that the european parliament takes a stand.
organic production methods, with the respect and environmental balance they advocate, should be supported either by incentives for producers or by measures to protect these crops from inherent risks such as gmos, whose risks to the environment are not yet known and which, since there is no way of ensuring their production in a controlled way, threaten to contaminate the specimens with which they coexist.
a european action plan for organic farming should be ambitious, since organic farming is not limited to the production of food, but plays a wider role in environmental and social matters.
the main objective is to make everyone, in general, and not just some urban minorities, aware of the environmental benefits of organic products.
improving community standards, including the cap, and increasing public aid are key to making organic farming a more dynamic aspect of sustainable agriculture.
at a time when the environment must be a priority, this issue must be at the forefront.
the preservation of biodiversity and the reversal of desertification are key to ensuring sustainable development.
although the aim is to reverse biodiversity loss: - the causes are not addressed: the change in the production model based on profit maximisation, as exemplified by the release of gmos into the environment.
in an increasingly urbanised society, where rural areas are becoming desertified and where industrialisation and construction take up the traditional 'natural' space, the european union's concern to ensure the maintenance of biodiversity is justified and useful.
a society that abandons its fields, its forests, its rural space not only reduces biodiversity but also its capacity to exploit natural resources, encourages urban concentration, the macrocephaly of the major cities and reduces the quality of life in general.
more than the defence of biodiversity as an end, our main objective must be to protect a model of development which ensures the possibility of full enjoyment of a quality life, only possible when the 'natural' space is preserved and maintained.
the environment deserves to be a priority worldwide.
the growth of recent decades and the negative impacts on the world have made this a priority and a necessity for sustainable development.
it is worth recalling that the eu is committed to the principle of environmental integration in line with the cardiff process and the community's own sustainable development strategy.
i believe that it must be maintained throughout the community, not only for environmental and economic reasons, but also because otherwise there is a risk of losing thousands of jobs, which are hardly replaceable, and inevitably social costs.
i believe that investment is still in its infancy in this area, as it is a valuable medium- and long-term sustainability instrument.
i support this motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on draft implementing measures which 'go beyond the implementing powers provided for in the basic act', more specifically in the field of restricting the use of certain dangerous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
this is why all member states and regions have always been committed to developing themselves and making their development models sustainable.
sustainable development must therefore be about convergence and competitiveness.
we believe that it is necessary to focus on maximising energy efficiency and consumer information, but at the same time to ensure that the new legislation does not place a burden on small businesses.
the directive covers objects we use every day, such as hair dryers, washing machines, computers, etc., which will be responsible for about 40% of the carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
the objective which forms the essence of the proposal in question (ensuring the free movement of certain energy-consuming products, improving the quality of their environmental performance and promoting the reduction of energy consumption) deserves my agreement.
the balance, together with the desire to improve environmental and energy quality, is an indispensable factor in proposals with this scope.
the aim is to define ecodesign requirements for energy-using products throughout their life cycle, with the main objective of reducing the negative impact of such products on the environment.
the progressive growth and development of maritime transport, which has many advantages, including environmental benefits, must nevertheless be accompanied by a constant effort to reduce the negative environmental consequences it will always have.
in fact, according to the amendments proposed by parliament, and taking the year 2000 as a benchmark, sulphur emissions from seagoing vessels would be reduced by around 80%, whereas the council's position provides for only a 10% reduction.
both the united states of america and canada and mexico have made important signals to tighten up the imo and eu agreements, and even the recent environmental accidents which have occurred in the united states can and should have a say in this matter.
the rapporteur's idea of promoting the development of an environmental technology by creating and fostering a market for it is also interesting.
the suggestions made in this context constitute a more effective solution for the protection of human health and the environment.
the fact that i share the concerns (and objectives) of this proposal for a directive which aims to ensure sufficient harmonization with a view to the development of the internal market and at the same time compliance with rules protecting public health and the environment justifies the meaning of my votes on the amendments in question.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of toxic chemicals.
not only because it is the last of the current financial perspectives and the strategic framework within which parliament will decide its priorities for the period 2007-13, but also because 2006 will be a key year for achieving the objective of a europe of dynamic and sustainable growth, creating more and better jobs.
i also hope that a fair competition environment will be promoted and at the same time that the social interests of those involved in road transport will be safeguarded.
the next item is the joint debate on the following oral questions to the commission on fiscal and environmental dumping by mr ford, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament, by mrs mann, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, and by mr watson, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (b6-0172/2005), and by mr jonckheer, on behalf of the green group/european free alliance (b6-0229/2005).
in particular this involves looking at the possibilities offered by the complaint procedure in the context of the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, which state that oecd enterprises should refrain from seeking or accepting exemptions not contemplated in the statutory or regulatory framework related to environmental, health, safety, labour, taxation, financial incentives or other issues.
i wish to add a few general remarks on the role of the wto in the area of environmental policy.
let me first stress that wto members have explicitly recognised the importance of working towards sustainable development and making international trade and environmental policies mutually supportive.
wto members are free to choose their own environmental policy at national, regional and, in the case of multilateral environmental agreements, global level.
this also implies that any action against illegal breaches of existing regional, national or international environmental legislation should be taken at those levels.
the appropriate answer to ‘environmental dumping’ at global level is, therefore, to enhance environmental governance by means of legally binding instruments such as multilateral environmental agreements, and the commission is very active in that field.
the case in point, the desire to move a cellophane plant from the united kingdom to the state of kansas, is only desirable because of the state's derogation from its tax and environmental legislation.
this case, as well as the alstom case referred to above, illustrates a well-known problem, that of relocations for reasons of anti-social or anti-environmental competitiveness.
it is essential that the breakdown of protectionism be accompanied by the raising of social rights and environmental demands.
the next item is the report by mr krahmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to their reuse, recycling and recovery and amending council directive 70/156/eec (com (2004) 0162 - c5-0126/2004 - 2004/0053 (cod)) (a6-0004/2005).
moreover, compensation is also an incentive for the commitment and involvement of fishermen in the implementation of the recovery plan, as the main objective of these plans is to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources as a way of securing the future of fisheries.
i would also like to mention, on the positive side, the commission proposal to come along in a certain way, and the reform of the common fisheries policy has indicated that we have safeguard plans, recovery plans for areas and species that were in sustainability problems.
i voted in favour of the krahmer report on the proposal for a directive on the typeapproval of motor vehicles with regard to their reuse, recycling and recovery, because: 1. the directive values the environment.
in the follow-up to the lisbon strategy, the european union cannot forget about environmental policy.
in this context, the manufacturer's obligation to prove that the vehicle has been built in such a way as to respect the environment and to describe in detail a recycling strategy which should be made available to the body responsible for the final disposal of waste cannot be disregarded.
the unstoppable growth in the use of motor vehicles, particularly in private transport, fully justifies the concerns about the environmental damage that this entails and therefore justifies initiatives such as the present one which, by increasing the conditions for recycling, reuse and recovery, aim to reduce these negative effects.
the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment.
in view of the sustainability problem of some fish stocks and the need to restore them, the loss of income resulting from the closure of the fleets and fishermen affected should be fully compensated in order to guarantee the original purpose, i.e.
but, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in portugal should also serve as a warning for the future and should force us to reflect on the medium- and long-term solutions to this type of problem, both in terms of creating a european system of protection against risks and crises in agriculture, the timely debate on which the commission recently launched, and in broader terms, by strengthening the union's leading role in international efforts to tackle climate change and by presenting concrete proposals for strategic action after 2012. i think i have given sufficient reasons in the few minutes i have had to justify the broad support which this motion for a resolution deserves from the european parliament.
since the beginning of the year we have been alerting the european commission and the european parliament to the serious situation in portugal, as a result of one of the most severe periods of drought in our country, the social, economic and environmental effects of which will tend to be more acute as summer approaches.
finally, this situation has once again highlighted the need to prevent global warming and its consequences for climate change, in particular by achieving the important objectives set out in the kyoto protocol.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, portugal is experiencing a dramatic situation of drought, lost harvests, animals dying without food or water, environmental deterioration in the worst affected areas, an increased risk of a multiplication of forest fires in the summer, villages that are already dependent on water supplies from abroad.
seventh: maintaining the european positions on climate change and the kyoto protocol.
our civilization, and my country in particular, continues to waste a lot of water, and that has to change.
the same could be said of the present common agricultural policy, which neither values mediterranean crops nor encourages rational land use or the ecological sustainability of the rural world.
all these people who have been enduring and resisting for many years, despite the many adversities, people who live off agriculture, livestock, forestry, tourism and the environment, people with few resources, who are actually the most affected.
i would like to begin by saying that i fully support the priorities set by the european council, which translate into widespread access to high-quality health care in a context of long-term financial sustainability.
without a climate of trust between citizens and health services, everything will be mere intentions.
as in all consumer-supplier relations, the existence of a climate of trust is essential and, for good reason, in the health sector.
environmental quality is not a luxury, it must be a political priority as a condition for sustainable development.
everyone is becoming increasingly aware that the destruction of the environment threatens the future of present and future generations and irreversibly degrades people's quality of life.
environmental and health concerns are relevant and timely.
ignorance of the past and laxity of the present have high costs - environmental costs, financial costs and costs in human lives.
some of these compounds are persistent, that is, very resistant to degradation in the environment.
because pops are bioaccumulative, they accumulate in the environment and in the bodies of living organisms.
the priority areas covered by the agreement are public administration, economic cooperation, social development, research, technology and the environment.
for example, it is proposed to develop cooperation in the fields of biotechnology; information and communication technologies; bioinformatics; space; micro and nanotechnologies; materials research; clean technologies; sustainable management and use of environmental resources; health and medicine; aeronautics; metrology, standardisation and conformity assessment; and human sciences.
it is important that the precautionary principle is applied when it comes to protecting groundwater against pollution, which is currently provided for in directive 80/68/ec, until 2013. it is intended that after that date protection will be ensured by the so-called water framework directive of 2000 and by the directive, the first reading of which is now under way.
the report also stresses that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
secondly, there must be the political will to take the necessary measures to prevent pollution and protect the quality of groundwater.
the directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution, which lays down rules for the protection of groundwater against pollution, does not provide for clear quality objectives or require an exhaustive and continuous assessment.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential to improve the environmental protection instruments and water quality objectives in europe.
we voted in favour of the report approving the agreement between the ec and switzerland on the participation of that country in the eea and the european environment information and observation network.
the aim of the agreement and of swiss participation is to provide objective, reliable and comparable information on the environment.
switzerland will retain observer status without voting rights in the european environment agency, will benefit from equal treatment with regard to the provision of data, information and analysis in the field of the environment, and will create an infrastructure capable of providing standardised data and information on the state of the environment on its own territory.
the agreement will make it easier and more accurate to provide reliable and comparable information on the state of the environment in europe and will also allow for better integration of the assessments and data provided on ecosystems shared by switzerland and neighbouring countries.
the geographical situation, the economic importance and the relations established in various fields between the european union, its member states and switzerland justify - indeed, recommend - switzerland's participation in the european environment agency.
the european parliament's committee on the environment adopted on 21 april 34 amendments to the council's common position on bathing water quality management.
the quality of bathing water is thus not only a factor in health, but also an important indicator of environmental quality and tourist development.
the increasingly demanding protection of the environment is undoubtedly both necessary and desirable.
but since there is no need for such a policy to be incompatible with economic growth and development, it is necessary that the measures taken in this context should not, by appearing to be an uncompromising defence of the environment and public health, result in actual damage to the economy, in particular to the tourism sector which is so important for portugal.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the council's strategy for the governmental experts' seminar on climate change (b6-0234/2005), and the oral question to the commission on the commission's strategy for the governmental experts' seminar on climate change (b6-0235/2005).
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
subject: nuclear energy package the commission has put forward new proposals for directives on the safety of nuclear power stations and the final disposal of nuclear waste.
the second meeting of the parties, to be held in almaty, kazakhstan, from 25 to 27 may 2005, should therefore ensure that the legislative work leading to the implementation of the it is equally important to ensure specific provisions, such as rights already provided for in the convention, to ensure effective public participation in the decision-making process on gmos and guidelines to ensure public participation in international fora, to serve as a tool for the parties to enhance public participation at regional and global level also in other conventions and treaties dealing with environmental issues.
collective and individual awareness of the importance of environmental issues is a decisive factor in the development of public policies and practices, both public and private, conducive to environmental conservation.
it is also true that the public debate is the best opponent of environmental demagogy - which also exists - and of policies which ignore our obligation to the present, but above all to future generations.
the resolution adopted today by the european parliament welcomes the decision to hold a seminar of government experts to discuss the european union's role in combating climate change, supporting sustainable energy r & d and limiting emissions from road, air and sea transport, which we support, while underlining the need for effective measures and political will for the commission and the member states to be part of this effort, by presenting proposals for a future strategy based on the kyoto protocol, technological innovation and development of environmental technologies.
as stated in the resolution, we also regret that several countries have not yet ratified the kyoto protocol, including the united states of america, which is responsible for a large proportion of emissions.
the kyoto protocol is rightly considered to be an instrument of the utmost importance in the field of climate change.
in environmental matters, as in most other matters, good intentions are seldom followed by consequences.
the opportunity - in accordance with fair competition rules, with serious checks, with respect for the principles of defence of human rights, environmental protection and sustainable development - to produce, to place its production on the world market and to be able to acquire other products is the surest way to the progress of peoples, to peace, to human development.
however, and while the concern for the sustainability of ivorian fisheries and the protection of local artisanal fisheries is to be commended, this protocol, apart from tuna-fishing vessels, has had a very low degree of use, which also shows the state of the community long-distance fleets, particularly in portugal.
everything that concerns the future of agriculture, the rural world, but also the environment and the preservation of a necessary balance between the exploitation of resources, their economic viability and sustainability deserves serious consideration and discussion.
madam president, commissioner, under the present market conditions and taking into account the production paradigm in force in most countries of the union, a sustainable european energy policy is only possible if the efficiency of the final use of this resource is significantly increased.
the question is all the more relevant now that it is recognised that the level of energy efficiency differs greatly from one member state to another, creating distortions and, above all, waste that is truly unjustifiable in the context of a future internal market.
the model proposed by the commission, although based on well-defined rules, is sufficiently flexible and operational to encourage the 25 member states to save energy.
by proposing more ambitious targets for energy saving, structured in three distinct levels, it is an active intervention by the european parliament which sends a strong message to the council that the union's energy policy objectives must be met.
the setting of even more ambitious targets for the public sector and the creation of an energy efficiency fund to which all service providers have access, from which household consumers and smes can benefit, are also relevant and valuable factors, although the complexity of their implementation must be acknowledged.
in the current state of economic development and the actual situation of the internal energy market, it is essential to create new incentives for the promotion of energy efficiency.
however, the overall energy policy does not stop at efficiency, since it is increasingly dependent on diversification of sources, increasingly from new energy sources and the secure interconnection of transeuropean networks in a philosophy, as already stated here, similar to the current transport networks.
the need for a gradual move towards harmonisation of tariffs and contracts, which would give a real dimension to european energy policy, is also essential.
the next item is the report by mrs frederika brepoels, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a community infrastructure for spatial information (inspire) (com (2004) 0516 c6-0099/2004 2004/0175 cod)) (a6-0108/2005).
the most appropriate solution would be to create a specific community fund in the 2007-13 financial perspective for natura 2000, promoting the conservation of biodiversity as we have advocated with the proposals we have put forward in the committee on agriculture.
the laperrouze report and the commission proposal set out the priorities for the transeuropean energy networks in the light of the creation of a more open and competitive internal energy market, which respects the principles of competition.
even the concern for consumer protection and the use of renewable energy is always subordinated to the central objective of the market, that is to say the interests of the economic groups and multinationals operating in this sector, with which we disagree.
of course, we are talking about universal service criteria and public service obligations, but only to emphasize that the construction and maintenance of infrastructure in the energy sector, defined by the commission, taking into account the positions and projects presented by the member states, should ensure the effective functioning of the internal energy market, in compliance with the procedures for consulting the populations concerned, taking into account the strategic criteria and the above-mentioned criteria and obligations, added by the european parliament.
i congratulate my colleague anne laperrouze on the important and timely report produced on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing guidelines for transeuropean energy networks and repealing decisions no 96/391/ec and no 1229/2003/ec, which i support, particularly as regards the establishment of common rules in the european gas and electricity market where the environment cannot be forgotten and the security of electricity supply in each of the member states, regions and territories must be guaranteed.
the incorporation of the energy networks of the new member states into the transeuropean networks will undoubtedly facilitate the process of cohesion in the enlarged eu.
however, the construction of new infrastructure or its maintenance or reinforcement will have to take account of the environmental impact and comply with the procedures for prior information and consultation of the public provided for in community and national legislation.
the eu's dependence on a single source of energy supply may have repercussions on its foreign policy and limit its role as a world-class partner.
the development of alternative energy sources is therefore essential for the technological progress of european industry.
it is clear that it is a good thing to achieve greater efficiency in the final use of energy and to try to achieve the objective of 20% of renewable energy in the overall consumption of the european union.
but we cannot agree that, in the field of energy efficiency, the market should be liberalized, particularly for domestic consumption, from july 2007, as the rapporteur has done in some of the proposals against which we voted.
if we want to achieve - and we must want to achieve - real energy savings which counteract the constant trend of increasing energy consumption in both developing and developed countries, one of our main tasks will be to alert citizens to the consequences of excessive energy consumption.
in this connection, the proposals here, particularly those concerning ways of ensuring that consumers - public or private - are aware of the energy efficiency of the goods to be purchased, are of the greatest value.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
other mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to note that the proposal we are voting on tomorrow proposes an internal reallocation of eur 200 million from the transeuropean energy networks to the social agenda, which is essential for social inclusion, growth and competitiveness.
however, as the person responsible for this issue in the committee on employment and social affairs and as europe has a crucial role to play in social justice and cohesion, i would like to say that i am very concerned about the way the luxembourg presidency is dealing with the issue of statistical regions and therefore i would like to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the question of whether the european social model is compatible with globalisation has been raised in the face of the social and environmental dumping which prevails in other countries and which has led to relocation and unemployment in europe.
whereas: (1) the political situation and the need to involve the various european actors in the construction of a stable financial framework, which ensures sustainable development and job creation; (2) the need for the european institutions to give a clear signal of commitment to finding solutions to the problems of citizens; (3) the effort needed to reach an agreement with which the majority of the 453 million europeans can identify, ensuring unity in diversity; 4. that cohesion policy represents the internal solidarity of the eu and that, despite existing limitations, this principle has been minimally respected; the portuguese socialist delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the böge report on the financial perspectives for 2007-13.
in writing.
and because they are profoundly inadequate in financial terms to promote effective 'social and economic cohesion' by responding to the social, economic and environmental challenges of an enlarged eu.
- effectiveness - there must be a clear definition of objectives, priorities and responsibilities, avoiding duplication and dispersion of effort and energy.
it is absolutely unacceptable that aspects of social dumping and environmental dumping, which threaten jobs in europe and are the symbol of unfair competition, can continue to exist freely in the world to our detriment.
the programme which forms the basis of this agreement, which the european community intends to conclude, is based on three fundamental priorities: first, to monitor the abundance of dolphins and control their mortality rate associated with tuna catches in the agreement area; secondly, to study the causes of the mortality of these dolphins during fishing operations, while promoting fishing techniques and equipment capable of minimising these effects; and thirdly, to study the consequences of different fishing patterns on the various species of fish and other animals in the pelagic ecosystem.
to achieve these objectives, the inter-american tropical tuna commission, which coordinates the programme, proposes a set of measures to be implemented, including the application of sustainable fishing quotas for tuna caught in the agreement area and the inclusion of observers on board each vessel when it goes out to work.
the concerted efforts - and this is important to note - have resulted in a decline in bycatch of dolphins in the agreement area using the siege method from about 150,000 catches in 1989 to 1,500 in 2002. in addition to playing an important role in the preservation of dolphin communities in this region, this agreement also has a significant impact on the preservation of the ecosystem as a whole, since it also preserves communities of other species, such as sharks, turtles and other aquatic animals killed using other fishing gear aimed at catching these tuna.
the resolution welcomes the current "improvement in the climate of transatlantic relations" and looks forward to the us/eu summit in washington on 20 june and the international conference on iraq co-organised by the us/eu in brussels on 22 june.
the resolution calls for partnership in the so-called 'combat against terrorism', in the 'non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the use of nuclear energy', in relations with china, india, japan, latin america and russia, in the situation in ukraine, lebanon and kyrgyzstan, in the wto negotiations or in the reform of the un.
if the eu is to remain an area of economic, social and environmental progress, member states must firmly pursue reforms both in their labour markets to improve the employability of european workers and in their tax systems to make work financially attractive.
the reform of these social and fiscal policies must be articulated in a coherent way as a necessary and indispensable factor for sustainable development and growth.
we are equally concerned about the attempts of separatism by certain economic circles in santa cruz, which want to monopolize the country's energy resources.
we therefore hope that bolivian society will reach a consensus so that the control of the management of the country's natural resources, in particular energy and water resources, will be taken over by the state and contribute to its development and the social well-being of its inhabitants.
we also hope that the decision of the constitutional court will be implemented, which declared certain energy agreements signed by the previous government with multinational companies to be illegal because they were not subject to the mandatory consultation of the bolivian parliament.
the sustainability of public finances, much less its consolidation, is not at stake, of course, but rather making the pact more effective and socially more comprehensible.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
as in other plans for the recovery of stocks, we therefore consider it essential, in addition to ensuring the sustainability of fisheries resources and reliable scientific data, to ensure that the fleets affected by the reduction in fishing capacity or the temporary cessation of fishing activities are given adequate socioeconomic support.
other mr president, ensuring the security of electricity supply and an adequate level of interconnection between the member states' infrastructures is absolutely essential, especially when it comes to building and developing the single energy market.
it is clear that it will not be possible to build a sound single energy market in an environment with very unequal supply conditions, whether in terms of prices, regularity or taxation itself.
nor can this indispensable market be strengthened where there is no common vision on the use of the various forms of energy production.
the question of security, energy supply and the interconnection of infrastructure cannot be merely the consequence and the response to some violent disruptions that have occurred in recent times and which have been so damaging to the level of development of the european economy.
they must be structural elements of the common energy policy and enabling elements of the necessary policy of increasing energy efficiency and diversifying sources of supply.
however, the key will remain the capacity of the european institutions to reform the energy market in the true logic of european policy, taking all its aspects into account.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the agreement in question, being of real importance for the protection of migratory waterfowl, responds to environmental concerns which have a direct bearing on these birds but also on the wider concept of environmental conservation, a subject which should be particularly dear to us both as a country which can benefit from its environment and politically since it should be part of our concern to protect what we will leave as a legacy to future generations.
we must therefore support measures to improve energy policies, given their indispensable nature for the quality of our lives today and for future generations.
the main objective of the ecb is to maintain price stability, so it is reasonable to say that, despite the fact that the economic environment in europe and the world is not exactly favourable, the ecb has fulfilled its fundamental objectives and in this respect the report presented here deserves my approval.
what should have been done was to assess the costs of the euro, which is an obstacle to sustainable development.
the sustainable development advocated in this report is based on three pillars: environmental protection, economic development and social cohesion, and is considered to be unfeasible without the development of new technologies and environmental innovations.
but it is also necessary to take into account that in order to promote sustainable development, research and innovation in technologies specialized in the preservation and restoration of natural, cultural and historical resources must be promoted.
it is also important to develop environmental methods and indicators to measure the environmental damage caused by different products, services and processes, and to focus on environmental performance information to encourage consumers to seek environmentally friendly technologies.
the reuse of materials should be encouraged, allowing waste materials from one production process to become a contribution to other production processes - for example, using municipal waste to save energy - thus enabling both economic and environmental benefits to be achieved.
i consider that an approach to new technologies which allows the creation of development programmes with an environmental dimension is essential for the lisbon objectives.
the proposed action plan will enable all actors to be mobilised in an integrated action to develop the potential of environmental technologies, placing the union at the centre of their development.
i would also like to recall that the review of the lisbon strategy concluded that the situation of the environment and the improvement of employment should be seen as an opportunity to achieve the objective of creating a more competitive knowledge-based economy.
it is therefore of the utmost importance to strengthen the environmental dimension in the european union's competition strategy.
education is without doubt one of the most effective strategies we have to break the cycle of poverty, one of the fundamental elements for sustainable human development.
the structural and cohesion funds are an indispensable instrument, the only one with a redistributive character at the level of the community budget, which enables the european union to undertake actions aimed at reducing regional disparities, promoting real convergence and stimulating the sustainable development of regions, their growth, production and employment, as well as redistributing and compensating for the costs of the internal market, when it comes to less developed regions.
it will be impossible to ask our companies to be competitive and to develop technologies which protect the environment if we only support micro and small enterprises.
environmental issues are at the heart of policies for the future of europe.
i therefore believe that it is essential to create tools to ensure that everyone is aware of these issues and also to promote better enforcement of environmental legislation.
environmental issues are at the heart of policies for the future of europe.
these immoral weapons continue to have social, economic, environmental and humanitarian consequences and thus constitute an intolerable threat to the human security of entire communities.
to this end, it is important that those countries of the union which have not yet signed or ratified the convention do so without delay and join the 144 nations who consider that this and other dimensions of global disarmament are fundamental elements of the sustainable stability of our planet and the security of all of us.
we also know that there are consequences not only on the social level but also on the environmental level.
we are contributing to the undermining of vital forests and biodiversity, we are affecting the very climate conditions, the populations and employment of these producing countries, but also of the importing countries, harming companies that act legally and destabilising the international timber markets themselves.
it is also known that the european union action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade, which the commission presented in 2003, had defined as the overall objective of bilateral, regional or even interregional partnership agreements their contribution to sustainable development, so it is not understood why the implementation of the various commitments made in this plan has been so slow.
it must be clear that europe must compete with those who produce at lower wages, but neither europe nor anyone else will be able to compete with those who keep the currency artificially devalued, those who do not pay depreciation for investments made, those who do not pay for energy, those who do not respect environmental rules, those who use slave or child labour, and all this with the cooperation of the respective national authorities.
the approach which the european union has followed in negotiating international trade agreements must, in my view, be reviewed in order to increase the pressure on the reinforcement of corporate social responsibility, strict respect for the standards and conventions of the international labour organisation, international environmental and human rights conventions, by including these principles in the european union's bilateral and multilateral agreements.
in this context, all initiatives to ensure that reciprocal conditions for access to markets are created and that ethical, social and environmental clauses are activated which ensure that international markets are properly regulated are to be welcomed.
the european commission's proposal for the financial instrument for the environment (life+) is insufficient in terms of financial resources and it is unacceptable that it does not include the natura 2000 component.
the report adopted today improves considerably on the commission proposal by introducing, also with increased funding, the nature and biodiversity component, which includes the creation, preservation and management of natura sites (the network of sites of major importance for nature conservation in the european union), thus contributing better to the objective of sustaining the decline in biodiversity, both by 2010 and beyond.
the amendments clarify the objectives of the life+ project, adding, for example, the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, the protection of the european forest patch, access to more information on the environment and increased participation of citizens in the achievement of environmental objectives.
the commitment that the european union has shown to the environment should, in general, deserve our support.
however, we must distinguish between policies which preserve the environment and policies which put the environment at the centre of action, as if there were nothing else.
we protect the environment because we put people first.
china is now a growing economic power, consuming enormous amounts of energy resources, a demographic power, a diplomatic power (either by virtue of its mere permanent seat on the united nations security council) or by virtue of its diplomatic and cooperation policy towards developing countries, which it helps without imposing any process of democratization, but on the contrary.
the azores, madeira and the canary islands and the french overseas territories are the so-called outermost regions of the european union and are characterised by their remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult terrain and climate and economic dependence on a small number of products.
firstly, i believe that the possibility of exporting or re-shipping processed products which have benefited from the oda should not be restricted, provided that there is no export refund, because the size of the production and the market of the ors alone often does not guarantee the sustainability of local processing industries which are essential for the maintenance of some of the agricultural crops and for allowing some degree of diversification.
given the gravity of the situation, the european commission should rapidly step up its cooperation with national authorities in support of the population, minimising the consequences of fires and floods, and all national public aid initiatives aimed at restoring the productive potential of the affected regions, creating jobs and compensating for the social costs of the loss of jobs and sources of income, in particular by activating the solidarity fund for the affected areas and countries, promoting, if necessary, its urgent amendment, facilitating community administrative procedures, in particular those relating to the programming needs of the structural funds and the cohesion fund, as well as the flexibility of the processing of these sectors, supporting reforestation of the affected areas respecting their bio-ecological and ecological characteristics, as well as supporting measures to prevent forest fires, in order to take account of the problem of red lines in the forestry sector, such as direct access to water, and to grant financial aid to farmers in order to rapidly implement certain points of the cap, such as the payment of the agricultural, forestry, water and financial aid to farmers in all the areas affected by the implementation of article 87 (2) of the treaty.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we will also have to pay special attention to the issues of support for reintegration with a view to a sustainable return.
we voted in favour of most of the proposals in this report, which is a second reading of the directive which aims to introduce quality environmental legislation which will, as the rapporteur says, make it possible to improve the sustainability of production, reduce waste production, encourage long-term investment and promote companies which pursue a serious environmental policy.
i think it is important that there should also be an inventory of the waste that has been left over from the past and that measures should be taken if this waste is an environmental problem.
the lisbon european council set a new strategic objective for the union: to become the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economic area in the world, capable of ensuring sustainable economic growth, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
it is in this context that our report on the future of sustainable tourism in europe fits.
but the fact is that we are also talking about an activity which must be sustainable, so as not to destroy its environmental, landscape and land-use planning resources, among others.
we are thinking about transport, employment, the environment, the internal market and so on.
we support the proposal to create a tourist brand 'europe', which represents the enormous social and cultural diversity, the quality of services and the sustainability of tourist projects in the european union, to be promoted through an appropriate communication campaign to potential visitors from third countries.
all this must be done while ensuring that european regulation is flexible and well adapted to the needs, so that operators can take action more easily and continue to offer quality and sustainable services at an affordable cost.
tourism must be developed in a sustainable way, contributing to a balanced spatial planning, respecting the environment, promoting and enhancing cultural diversity and historical heritage, ensuring the participation of regional and local authorities, stakeholders and the general public.
tourism must comply with european standards which ensure that all those responsible for tourism, in the performance of their duties, protect the environment, the land, the training of staff and cultural traditions.
we also regret the rejection of our proposals: - to establish a public agricultural insurance scheme, financed by the european union, to guarantee farmers a minimum income in the event of public disasters such as droughts, fires and floods; - and for the council to take into account, in the proposal for the next financial perspective for the period 2007-13, the need to create support mechanisms for the affected populations, which contain a component for the prevention of this type of large-scale disasters caused by climate change, aimed at minimising their consequences.
it is clear that climate change, that extreme heat, is a direct and immediate cause for the scale of this catastrophe.
as a native of madeira, a region where tourism is one of the most important instruments for its sustainable development, i can understandably support the report.
this is mainly due to the following reasons: the importance of tourism at european, national and regional level, in terms of its contribution to economic growth, job creation and technological innovation, contributing to the progress of the lisbon strategy; the development potential it offers to regions with economic difficulties and specific geographical characteristics, such as the outermost regions; the contribution of the european union and community action to support, coordinate and complement the actions of the member states to the development of the tourism sector; in this context, the incentive for the eu to provide more effective structures and adequate financial means; the role of tourism in protecting the environment, land use planning and preserving and revitalizing its cultural values, traditions, customs and natural and artistic heritage; and concerns about the safety and protection of tourist rights.
we welcome the adoption of our proposal which:- 'recalls that the preservation of cultural heritage, in particular that which is considered a world heritage by unesco, is of the utmost importance for the sustainable development of tourism in the eu', asking 'the commission to increase the financial means allocated to the preservation of cultural heritage'.
as the author of the report on sustainable tourism in europe, i have followed my colleague's work closely and i believe that we both worked with the same conviction that tourism is an industry with a potential for revitalizing societies that cannot be overlooked.
i know how much european exports to this country weigh and i know the extremely difficult trading environment in which this problem has been dragging on for many years.
in fact, the contribution of community policies which could have a major impact on the competitiveness of the outermost regions falls far short of what is needed, such as policies to develop human capital, research and technological development, the environment, services of general economic interest and telecommunications.
this paper will complement the community strategy guidelines and will be presented to the informal ministerial meeting on sustainable communities in bristol in december of this year.
in the meantime, the european commission should guarantee the fishing fleets of the ors positive discrimination in access to marine resources in these areas and safeguard the sustainability of small-scale fishing.
structural disadvantages aggravated by the remoteness, insularity, small area, difficult terrain and climate and economic dependence on a small number of products, all of which, if persisted and combined, seriously hamper their development.
i would simply stress the need to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources and the activity of fishing communities in these regions, for which it is essential that the exclusive competence to access their waters, in accordance with their national jurisdiction, be equivalent to their exclusive economic zone.
the need to consider a framework of permanent support measures in the environmental area, taking into account that most of the territory of these regions is occupied by nature reserves and other protected areas, or, finally, support for measures in the area of training, traditional crafts and local production and tourism.
with different perspectives and approaches, we agree to support the strategy proposed by the commission for the sustainable development of the outermost regions of the european union as regards priorities, instruments and, in particular, the creation of a specific programme to compensate for over-cost, designed to compensate for the specific and permanent constraints of the outermost regions, such as their remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult terrain and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products and activities, small size of local markets, and the establishment of an action plan for the outermost regions.
i therefore suggest that this report be adopted, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a further important step after the positive proposal from the commission, so that, by approving the financial perspective, the conditions for the sustainable development of the outermost regions can be created, and economic, social and territorial cohesion can be successfully promoted.
we must combat the peripheries and focus on a model of sustainable development which takes account of disparities not only between member states but also between regions (even within the same state).
mr president, commissioner, for environmental, safety and cost reasons, rail transport must be used more and more in european traffic, both for goods and for passengers.
this means promoting public services, developing the productive system, providing basic infrastructure (transport, communications, energy), establishing a wide network of small and medium-sized agricultural holdings and a strategy to support the development of small and medium-sized urban centres in inland, rural and peripheral regions.
with different perspectives and approaches, we have come together in support of the strategy proposed by the commission for the sustainable development of the outermost regions, as regards priorities, instruments and, in particular, the creation of a 'specific programme to offset over-cost' and the establishment of a 'action plan for the outermost neighbourhood'.
we also believe that in order to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources in the respective eezs and to preserve the fisheries activity in the octs, it is essential that the exclusive competence to access the octs' waters, in accordance with their national jurisdiction, be equivalent to their eez.
it is necessary to look ahead and to invest in research, particularly to reduce the intensity of oil in relation to gdp, just as we must invest in other energy sources and in greater efficiency in the use of energy, which in several countries, particularly portugal, is one of the serious structural problems.
the next financial perspective should give particular importance to this issue, also focusing on renewable energies.
washington doesn't want to hear about the poor, because it doesn't care about its own, for the white house the poor are simply a waste of time and money.
with regard specifically to the reform of the united nations, i had the opportunity to say that the european parliament fully supports the positions of the un secretary-general and, in particular, considers that world security cannot be dissociated from economic and social development, respect for human rights and protection of the environment.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs lulling on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a6-0321/2005).
this weakness of the commission is worrying and has created a climate of uncertainty in the design of strategies for european companies, whether they are producers or importers, which must be tackled quickly.
what concrete plans does the commission have to ensure that the opening up of european markets is in fact accompanied by international compliance with minimum standards in the areas of human, environmental and labour rights?
the report seeks to take stock of the state of play of the policies and concrete actions developed by the different countries of the european union with regard to renewable energies.
it considers that, although progress has begun, the policies and measures in place will not allow the previously set targets for the use of energy from renewable energy sources to be met.
the main features are:- strengthening of qualified training and research and development in the subjects concerned;- greater autonomy for each member state as regards the objectives, options, sectors and technical solutions to be implemented;- greater decision-making autonomy and availability of means for local and regional authorities;- support for energy agencies at the various levels of intervention;- substantial strengthening of structural and cohesion funds and even of the cap (rural development) for this purpose; however, the report does not go into the fundamental question, namely the clear and explicit recognition of the reality of peak oil and the reduction in oil consumption and the need to exploit other sources of energy.
welcomes the timely report by mr claude turmes on the european commission's communication on the share of renewable energy in the european union, and agrees with the position on the extreme importance of renewable energy for the future of humanity, which highlights its environmental and health benefits.
it also specifically agrees that the consolidation of the use of renewable energy as an alternative depends on a correct combination of political will and instruments applied at global levels, including the european union itself, national, regional and local levels.
the goc continues to pursue export aid policies; they artificially devalue the currency; they violate environmental standards; they do not respect workers' rights; fail to ensure that health and safety standards are in place; they use child labor and forced labor.
i therefore recommend that the european commission press for the introduction of minimum social and environmental standards in trade agreements with the respective system for verifying their application.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
as cities are the enablers of development, they too, because of the economic, social and spatial planning policies currently being pursued, concentrate complex problems ranging from congestion to housing needs, from pollution to social exclusion.
i voted in favour of the johannes blokland recommendation for second reading on the 'transfer of waste' because this regulation is necessary for waste shipments to be really safe, that is to say, to pose no risk to the environment.
the commission also reiterates its proposal to keep animal by-products and other waste within the scope of the directive.
examples are ship dismantling and the need to ensure that it is carried out in a safe and environmentally sound manner to protect human health and the environment.
the commission believes that the degree of concentration in the energy market of many member states is considerable.
at the same time, energy markets have seen some new entrants in many member states, either in the form of start-ups or through companies established in other member states setting up subsidiaries.
the price level of energy may be one indicator for this; however, it has to be borne in mind that the price of energy is also influenced by many other factors: oil, gas and coal import prices, prices of co2 emission allowances on the carbon market, additional expenditure for the support of renewable energies, and increasing internationalisation of the external cost of energy.
that is why the commission is monitoring the competitive dynamics of the markets at issue very carefully and why it recently launched an inquiry concerning the european energy sector.
as far as energy mergers are concerned, their possible impact on the level of competition has to be evaluated on the merits of each case.
in this context, and in the light of its decision of 9 december to prohibit the edp/eni/gdp merger, i ask the commission how it can prevent a merger with significant cross-border impact and competitive implications at a time when an integrated iberian energy market and a more perfect internal market in the energy sector in europe are desired.
the european parliament's proposal, while improving the council's in terms of the volume of payments, fails to respond to the economic, social and environmental needs and challenges of an enlarged european union.
i voted in favour of the avril doyle recommendation for second reading on 'emissions from air-conditioning systems in motor vehicles' because: (1) it translates the commitment made in the kyoto protocol to reduce greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere; (2) environmentally friendly technologies are needed to avoid climate change and, consequently, to prevent the increasing frequency of natural disasters.
the old models will be phased out and member states will be able to encourage the installation of air conditioning systems containing an efficient gas with a low global warming potential, such as co2, as advocated in one of the proposals adopted in the european parliament and which we supported.
the report by mr florenz will enable the commission proposal on noise emissions into the environment from equipment for use outdoors to be adopted as soon as possible.
the report deals with community co-financing of transport and energy network projects, and is in line with the objectives of the so-called 'lisbon strategy', namely: the completion of the internal market - giving priority to its enlargement to the east, to the new member states - encouraging privatisation and competition in both the transport and energy sectors.
i congratulate mr mario mauro on his important and timely report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the transeuropean transport and energy networks and amending council regulation (ec) no 2236/95, which i support, particularly as regards the introduction of provisions to promote the investments needed to meet the lisbon objectives.
europe needs to invest in transport and energy infrastructure.
the transeuropean networks are a very important instrument in the creation and development of the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors in europe.
the european commission's proposal aims to review the general rules for the granting of community financial support in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks for the period 2007-13. i believe that, in view of the list of 30 priority projects in the field of transport, we must clearly lay down the rules for granting financial support so that these projects can be developed in a manner consistent with the other community policies, with criteria of effectiveness and rules of transparency in the field of project financing.
it is true that biotechnology is one of the most important technologies for the future and must be supported by an appropriate policy framework, taking into account ethical, environmental and health aspects.
thus, the emphasis on research, development and innovation is always presented as a way of creating a business-friendly environment and not as the answer that is needed for better health for all, higher levels of public education and creating quality and entitled employment.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs lulling on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a6-0325/2005).
does the new programming for the period 2007-2013 include actions targeting this category of people, with a view to promoting their integration into their natural and social environment and enabling them to continue living in that environment?
question no 4 by fiona hall (h-0766/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: efficiency in the final use of energy in the light of recent shocks in the energy market, such as the increase in oil prices and growing public concern about the effects of climate change, what steps is the council taking under the british presidency to ensure that the proposed directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services (com (2003) 0739 - c5-0642/2003 - 2003/0300 (cod)) takes into account the most stringent measures to encourage energy savings, supported by a large majority in the european parliament?
question no 11 by mr purvis (h-0784/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: sebo and the directive on the incineration of waste animal sebum is covered by directive 2000/76/ec oj l 332, 28.12.2000, p. 91. on the incineration of waste and will have to be incinerated under very strict conditions after december this year.
is this impediment not inconsistent with the commission's environmental policy which encourages efficient and competitive alternative energy sources?
on the other hand, due to the harsh environment of mountain pastures, the bovine breeds in these regions develop more slowly and mating can only take place at 24 months of age, depending on biological conditions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we know that this process of neo-liberal globalisation is contributing to the worsening of economic and social inequalities and to the widening of the gap between rich and poor and to environmental imbalances, both between and within different countries, as statistics and un reports demonstrate.
it is therefore not enough to recognise the existing situation; what is needed is a break with the economic, monetary and international trade policies that generate this situation, both at the global level and at the level of the european union, if the strategic objectives of sustainable development and the raising of living standards on a global scale are to be achieved.
it is also necessary to replace the lisbon strategy and the stability pact with a genuine european strategy of solidarity and sustainable development to promote equal rights, social protection for all, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, the resolution of problems linked to precarious employment and the strengthening of the social rights of workers, the unemployed, the elderly and children.
we welcome the existence of a community action plan to support the recovery of the eel in the way it is proposed, particularly because it takes account of the need to implement socioeconomic measures for fishermen, the community financing of measures (emphasis should be placed on a separate budget line), the need for reliable data on the state of the resources, and the investigation of other causes of the reduction of the stocks, such as pollution.
however, it was possible to partially approve the proposal which insists on the need for a social policy agenda that focuses on the development of a city centred on inclusion and cohesion, which presupposes measures in favour of sustainable development and respect for workers' rights.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and health from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment and health from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals.
i would like to draw the attention of members, the commission and the council to the need for the european union to use its weight as the world's largest trading bloc and largest producer of chemicals to enforce its own internal rules on the protection of the environment and health as internationally recognised rules and preconditions for free trade.
to forget this is to destroy europe as a productive base, to destroy its jobs and hypocritically to export the environmental damage of its territory to more vulnerable areas.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
if we don't win the battle against climate change, what kind of land will we leave our children?
this provides for financial resources considered sufficient to cover the full costs of dismantling and the treatment, conditioning and final storage of the resulting radioactive waste.
in countries which have recently joined the european union, as is the case, and which have been confronted with these requirements for decommissioning, it seems to us that it is right that the necessary support should be given for their implementation in a more appropriate way, taking into account human and environmental safety.
i agree with the principles set out in these reports, not only because i believe that nuclear energy must be surrounded by all safety measures, but also because i believe that we must take effective account of the financial resources that manage its life cycle.
i think that the conditions for the use of financial resources for decommissioning set out in this report are responsible and effective, and i am particularly referring to the creation of a decommissioning fund which will take account of the management of funds generated by energy production.
i would remind you that whenever we look at nuclear, it is a matter of priority to take account of the necessary safety and environmental protection measures for the life of a nuclear power station and it is in this framework that the proposed measures for its decommissioning in a safe, efficient and environmentally friendly way should be included.
there seems to be some overreach in setting greenhouse gas targets, given that little is known about the actual consequences of human interference in climate change, which is even more problematic with the us outside the kyoto protocol.
but we welcome all measures aimed at reducing energy intensity and waste, improving energy efficiency, developing a new policy for less polluting transport, and promoting rail transport and public transport in general.
we already have a very strong opinion on emissions trading, because as we know it does not solve any problems and only serves to aggravate environmental inequalities and imbalances.
the excellent report by mr wijkman sets out some measures to help solve the problem of climate change at world level.
at this meeting, european leaders are expected to put forward proposals for a future climate change regime.
the european council of march 2005 insisted on a reduction of emissions by developed countries of between 15% and 30% by 2020. the rapporteur proposes to set long-term targets, suggesting a 60 to 80% reduction by 2050. finally, a strategy needs to be developed to make europe the most energy-efficient economy in the world.
incentives should be created to increase the use of 'clean' technologies, and research and innovation should be promoted at european level to support sustainable energy and sustainable land use management.
the importance of the environment, and in particular of climate change, as one of our concerns, is, i think, obvious.
i share a lot of the basic lines of environmental policy that europe has been advocating - and which are echoed in both the commission's report and the communication.
on the one hand, it is clear that the first concerns of the developing countries are not environmental, in that they are not original.
that is exactly why i believe that the main investment should be in research and development, since the objective, the model, should be to manage resources better, always ensuring a better and more sustainable quality of life.
the lisbon strategy, with the liberalisation and privatisation of public services in a wide range of areas, combined with an increasingly precarious work environment, the infamous proposal for a directive on the creation of an internal market for services is an example, in some cases joined by the stability pact to tighten the noose even further on workers and small and mediumsized enterprises.
even when they talk about the need to create a business-friendly environment, we all know that they are talking about big business only.
the vote will take place on thursday, 17 november 2005.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs lulling on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a6-0339/2005).
i voted in accordance with the criteria which i consider decisive when there is a - at least apparent - conflict between the interests of industry and the interests of environmental protection and public health.
firstly, i believe that the protection of public health and the environment should be a priority, but i do not believe in fundamentalisms which make everything equal, which ignore the economic impact of the measures and, above all, which are unaware of the global dimension of these issues in the face of economies that do not shy away from environmental dumping.
the european parliament's committee on the environment argues that traps which cause animals to suffer agony for five minutes or more cannot be considered 'non-cruel' when there are possibilities to avoid it today.
the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development has therefore, in the light of the opinions of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on budgets, whose rapporteurs, mr robert sturdy and mr jan mulder, i thank for their work, insisted on the need to strengthen the commission's proposal in five key areas.
mrs roure has already referred to the consequences of this agreement, in addition to the environmental issue, in many other areas, including what is most essential to us, which has to do with fundamental freedoms when it is necessary to resort to criminal law measures to ensure their effectiveness.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the debate on the report by mrs patrizia toia, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the regulation and european electronic communications markets in 2004 (2005/2052 (ini)) (a6-0305/2005) will continue.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
liberalisation means attacking the achievements of workers and the sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by the big multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, environmental destruction, the increase in unemployment, the ruin of millions of small farmers and the undermining of food sovereignty and food security.
the conviction that the development of international trade contributes to economic growth, development, employment and - also - to a better environment in international relations is fortunately now widely held.
the emphasis on social, environmental, labour, cultural and, needless to say, economic concerns is also positive.
the recommendation for second reading, by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on batteries and accumulators and their waste and repealing directive 91/157/eec (5694/5/2005 - c6-0268/2005 - 2003/0282 ((cod)) (rapporteur: joahnnes blokland) (a6-0335/2005) is hereby adopted.
of all the aspects which are mentioned in this report, and which justify my vote in favour because they fall within a balanced perspective of environmental protection, consumer protection and the promotion of energy efficiency, there is one which i think should be highlighted.
a compromise has been reached which is further back than the initial proposals, but it is good to try to achieve greater efficiency in the final use of energy, and we therefore support measures which actually aim at this objective.
♪ however, while the final proposal maintains the recognition of the important role that the public sector can play in this area, notably in launching energy efficiency pilot projects, in the context of public procurement, by establishing energy efficiency criteria, or also by encouraging the integration of energy efficiency improvement requirements into their investments, it insists on free competition.
we cannot agree that, on the subject of energy efficiency, one should insist on market liberalization as the rapporteur did, or insist on 'safeguarding a level playing field for all energy suppliers'.
the european union must be more consistent in its approach to energy efficiency, whether it is in terms of consistency with its discourse - and its attitude - to major environmental agreements such as kyoto, or in terms of rationality, particularly economic and environmental rationality.
these should be the standards which guide our environmental and energy policies.
state aid is an important lever for promoting public investment, sustainable economic development, in particular by ensuring public services in the less-favoured regions.
in the meantime, new priorities contained in the european constitution, which has now been rejected - the militarisation of the eu, so-called internal security and immigration control, competition policies - are being reinforced, which will tend to channel financial resources to the priorities of the economically more developed countries and their economic and financial groups, at the expense of social, environmental, cohesion and development aid needs.
we believe that the main objective should be to promote the modernization and sustainable development of the sector, while respecting the balance of fisheries resources, in order to guarantee the public supply of fish, to maintain jobs and to improve the living and working conditions of fishermen.
the assumption of rights and duties relating to the ownership of natural resources, coupled with primary control and penalty systems managed by the brotherhood itself, allowed the recovery of the hornet and its ecologically and economically sustainable exploitation in the area under the control of that brotherhood.
the control of fishing activities is an important pillar for the sustainability of the fisheries sector and, in view of the need to recover certain endangered fish stocks, it is urgent to continue to support member states in order to enable them to exercise their obligation to control, monitor and inspect fishing activities in their areas of jurisdiction.
essentially, the report proposes to increase the 'mitigating' measures in view of the 'serious social, economic and environmental consequences' that the 'adjustment process' will entail for these countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
the rapporteur, however, expressed concern at the persistent delays in several areas, specifying the need to improve administrative capacity, the fight against corruption and the application of the acquis communautaire in certain sectors of agriculture, public procurement and the environment.