it is based on the protection of europe's cultural and natural heritage, and the conservation and protection of biodiversity.
but i want to ask you to realise that the environment has no borders - 'birds rarely cross from one country to another with their passport'.
regional experience also points to other reasons: lack of sufficient regional infrastructure, relevant institutions such as university development centres, technology incubators, high-tech centres and the like, but also venture capital funds, which would stimulate regional innovation and research potential in its wider activation on the one hand, but at the same time create a stronger competitive environment on the other hand.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
in such circumstances, the choice of abortion, even before it is the responsibility of women, is the responsibility of men, with the complicity of the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the rapporteur has set up a framework with real added value, with a high level of professionalism, and with the setting of sustainable and acceptable financial ceilings, which are then translated into specific instruments and programmes.
this sector of smes clearly demonstrates its flexibility, which is a dominant prerequisite for achieving the necessary, long-term sustainable level of competitiveness also on the global market.
this is the basis for tackling the enormous task facing the eu in meeting the ambitious objectives of the lisbon strategy in terms of job creation, social cohesion and sustainable development.
although some colleagues think that information campaigns are a waste of resources, the recent experience of two unsuccessful referendums in france and the netherlands convinces me that the lack of information among voters has led to the collapse of the architecture of the union's most important project, the european constitutional treaty.
it is therefore a challenge to our efforts to reduce regional disparities, if at the same time we underestimate the european union's common agricultural policy, which is concerned with the sustainable prosperity of agriculture and the countryside.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
its importance is enhanced by the fact that climate extremes are no longer an accident but a fundamental trend in weather.
the impact of global warming on daily weather is obvious.
unless greenhouse gas emissions are drastically reduced, scientists say that europe will only begin to feel the effects of the weather in the next half century.
a few months ago, the european union institutions were engaged in a debate on energy security in europe.
it has been stated, i note, platonically, that within 20 years the dependence of european countries on external energy sources will increase from 50 to 70 per cent.
the countries of the european union do not have significant natural energy resources.
i therefore support measures to increase energy efficiency, alternative and renewable energy sources and to ensure energy savings.
i also support the planned measures to increase oil and petroleum products stocks in the member states, as well as the european union's common approach in negotiations with opec and other countries in the interests of greater stability in the oil and energy markets.
on the other hand, however, the european union institutions must also adopt more prudent approaches to the shutdown of existing energy installations.
this will weaken the energy potential not only of slovakia but also of the european union.
the current energy situation, caused mainly by the oil crisis, puts us in a position to act quickly.
nuclear energy provides a much more efficient substitute for oil both in terms of the rapid availability of production capacity and in terms of environmental protection.
nuclear energy has state-of-the-art technologies with a high degree of safety.
in addition, it is a clean source of energy without any co2 emissions.
the shortage that nuclear opponents like to point out, nuclear waste, is also safely addressed today.
investments in research into the safe recycling of nuclear waste and further development of new technologies, which the european union can also provide in the form of access to the 7th framework programme, may eliminate any doubts about the safety of nuclear power plants in the near future.
the seriousness of the present energy situation, however, requires the implementation of a single rational and rapid solution: a return to nuclear energy by building new production capacities.
unfortunately, the countries of the european union do not have significant natural energy resources.
a few months ago, the european union institutions were engaged in a debate on energy security in europe.
platonically, it has been stated that within twenty years the dependence of european countries on external energy sources will increase from 50 to 70 percent.
in view of these facts, i think that the european union's energy policy is very naive, especially in terms of ensuring adequate energy self-sufficiency.
i certainly support measures to increase energy efficiency, to create the conditions for increasing the share of alternative and renewable energy sources, and also measures to ensure energy savings.
on the other hand, in order to cover real energy consumption, it is necessary to overcome europe's phobia of nuclear energy and conventional forms of energy production, of course on the basis of strict environmental and operational rules.
similarly, more prudent approaches by the european union institutions to outages of existing energy installations need to be applied.
this will weaken the energy potential not only of slovakia but of the entire european union and drain resources that could have been used, among other things, to finance programmes aimed at promoting alternative forms of energy.
europe needs to diversify energy sources and supply sources and strengthen the strategy to promote energy conservation measures as well as decentralised renewable energy sources.
the use of alternative energy sources is the most logical response to the increase in oil prices.
of course, with strict regard to the criteria for safe operation, it is illogical to oppose nuclear energy, which is one of the most advanced technologies and a clean source of energy without co2 emissions, a priori.
the unthinking approaches of those opposed to nuclear energy may seriously jeopardise the energy potential not only of slovakia but also of the union as a whole.
there is a great opportunity for farmers to go from being food producers to energy producers.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the future of the european union's energy policy.
renewable energy sources are, now and in the near future, perhaps the only possible solution that reduces europe's dependence on energy imports (in particular oil and gas) and thus reduces the political and economic risks that these imports pose.
they are also a further step towards fulfilling the kyoto protocol's conclusions on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which have a significant impact on global weather across the world.
the promotion of renewable energy sources must be part of europe's structural policy and, in particular, new member states will have opportunities to strengthen their small and medium-sized industries.
biomass and biogas production as an eco-friendly energy generation technology can be a practical implementation of rural policy with a view to sustainable development, ensuring energy independence and creating new jobs.
the directive is primarily intended to protect the environment, not to facilitate the waste management trade and to promote so-called waste tourism or waste business, whereby waste is exported to countries with the most lenient regulations.
this directive is particularly important for small member states and especially for new member states, which often lack the means and capacity to manage hazardous waste.
it is necessary to harmonise the rules governing the international transport of waste, since waste as such knows no borders and, in the event of an accident or an accident, may be dangerous not only for the state of final destination but also for the country of transit.
it is also important that the written consent of the country of destination and the written system of so-called notifications are required, as i believe that it is necessary to have strict, clear, transparent rules to allow control and monitoring of where the waste is located.
the country of destination must be notified in writing of the shipment of waste sufficiently in advance to give it the choice of accepting or not accepting the waste.
i agree with her that we must do everything we can to protect the environment.
in the face of the threat of global warming, it is necessary to take a serious look at the future of future generations and to take responsibility for them, and therefore to try to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to a minimum.
if there are substitutes for fluorinated industrial gases which are more favourable in terms of environmental requirements, energy efficiency and health safety, we should clearly replace these gases with substances which are more environmentally friendly.
but they still have a lot of problems to solve, such as justice and home affairs, corruption, the fight against organised crime and environmental protection.
ladies and gentlemen, i call on you to exercise your discretion in voting in favour of the amount of 400 million euros approved by the committee on industry, research and energy.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
it is important to remember that reach is not only a fight between the chemical industry and the environment, but also a competitive fight within the chemical industry between large and small and medium-sized enterprises.
however, most of the chemicals in the report will not be removed from the environment.
this fact has been confirmed by the international atomic energy agency.
on the basis of the new analyses, the total direct costs are estimated at eur 1,3 billion, indirect costs at eur 1,8 billion and losses from non-generated energy at eur 1,5 billion, with the life of this power plant set to end in 2015. the total cost with this loss of performance is therefore eur 4,6 billion.
in view of these facts, the parliament's committee on industry, research and energy in its amended report proposes to increase the financial support from the european union for the years 2007 to 2013 to the value of eur 400 million.
in the context of the growing energy crisis and the increasing electricity consumption, it was not prudent to decide to close a safe nuclear power plant prematurely.
in the context of accession negotiations, the institutions of the european union forced the early decommissioning of two units of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant by the slovak republic, despite the fact that the international atomic energy agency confirmed that the criteria for its longer-term safe operation were met.
the forced and politically motivated early shutdown of these nuclear capacities will weaken the energy position of slovakia, but also of the european union as a whole.
the issue of financing the early closure of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant is a key priority not only in the context of nuclear energy but also in the context of the entire energy policy of the slovak republic.
the slovak population is sensitive to the consequences of the energy crisis and the subsequent increase in electricity prices.
the european parliament's committee on industry, research and energy voted for a compromise amount of €400 million.
we invested around eur 250 million in the accession process of the two power plants in jaslovské bohunice, which is not a small amount for a country with a gdp just above 50% of the eu average, and according to the international atomic energy agency, we have secured this security reliably, with effect until 2015. a layman would ask: so why do you need money to shut it down in the 2007-2013 budget period?
europe was among the first to notice climate change from the dangers of climate change.
there is no doubt that these changes are directly related to human activity, especially in developed countries, which are largely responsible for the high levels of greenhouse gas emissions.
each year, these disasters cause great economic damage, loss of life, and increased disease of various kinds as a result of the polluted environment.
joint action by the biggest polluters - china, the us, the european union or india - to combat climate change is essential.
innovation in existing technologies and the development of more environmentally friendly forms of energy are therefore essential.
more use of solar, hydro and wind energy is needed, as well as support for increased research into these new forms of energy.
climate change will also have an impact on the health of people in europe.
europe will begin to experience diseases that are not typical of europe but of the southern geographical zones in the context of climate change.
as a slovak mep and member of the environment committee, i naturally voted for an increase in aid for the shutdown of the two reactors at the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant.
the total cost will be €5 billion, including such important components as safe storage of radioactive waste, significant losses in electricity generation and others.
let us focus our attention and our energy on far more burning issues where we could all be a lot more useful.
today, the euroregions are associations with legal personality, with established crossborder structures and with the best knowledge of sustainable regional development.
the primary objective of this directive is to minimise the negative impact of batteries and waste batteries and thus to contribute to the protection and improvement of the quality of the environment.
the commission has also found that the commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: this is the best way to help protect the environment, so that the public knows that batteries are not just waste.
of course, environmental protection is necessary, but article 175 as the sole legal basis can cause unfair competition by applying different legal standards in different member states.
i believe that the dual legal basis combines both objectives: environmental protection and the free and unhindered movement of goods.
in the field of environmental protection, romania needs reforms and a number of new legislation.