respected colleagues, climate change is certainly the biggest and most serious global challenge today.
today, when we try to prevent or at least mitigate climate change, we need to rethink our accepted thought patterns of national boundaries.
if we are to tackle climate change successfully, we must be clear that we are all responsible for it.
first, the responsibility of each individual country to contribute to the collective environmental burden, and second, the responsibility that is actually solidarity between the developed and underdeveloped regions of the world.
perhaps most important is intergenerational responsibility, as the consequences of climate change will be long-term and will affect the lives of many generations.
we must take the implementation of the kyoto protocol more seriously and do everything we can to ensure that it is also respected by other non-european countries which have not yet committed themselves to its implementation but have a relatively large impact on the environment of global significance.
the european union needs to take a leading role in tackling climate change, and this is mainly for two reasons.
it has valuable experience in environmental policies and is also making a serious effort in scientific research, the results of which should help to reduce the burden on the environment.
i therefore expect a clear eu demand for high environmental standards also after kyoto.
i am also delighted with the ambition, energy and, of course, enthusiasm of the president of the commission.
so we all, not just us in the european parliament but our voters, rightly expect that the new commission, within the framework of the priorities you have set, will also find the energy, the time and the will to deal with its own administrative system, its own bureaucracy.
as the european parliament, in its frédérique ries report, sets out the measures to be taken to implement the programme of the common environmental and health policy for the period 2004-10, we are aware that these are areas in which the european union can become a world leader.
environmental and health policy, however, has been given new frameworks by enlargement.
public health is as much a cross-sectoral issue as the environment.
nevertheless, from an environmental and strategic point of view, it would be a great loss for any country and region to neglect farming and rural development because of the more difficult working conditions.
all citizens want to continue to enjoy a healthy diet, a beautiful countryside, and a clean environment.
we cannot compete on lower social standards, lower environmental standards or lower wages, but only on performance, quality and technological progress.
information and communication technologies are certainly among the most rewarding factors for economic growth and sustainable development today.
they lie hidden in the natural and habitable environment, threatening humans and animals, killing and inflicting great suffering with physical and psychological injury and social and other lasting consequences.
these are mines that have already been closed and therefore have stopped receiving mining waste, and the remediation is carried out in accordance with the european valid permits.
the first year of school is particularly stressful for both parents and pupils, as they have to deal with adapting to a new environment, language, classmates and teachers right from the start, so understanding the teachers is very important in integration.
on these three issues, efsa has already written to the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and i would like to say here in plenary that the commission will make full use of its competence to adopt emergency measures under chapter iv, section 2, ‘emergencies’ of regulation (ec) no 178/2002 on food law.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety agreed that the derogations are acceptable in special cases but must not distort the final aim of the revised directive.
the environment committee agreed with the commission that the aim should be to limit in general the use of sulphur dioxide.
i am therefore pleased that, in a letter to the chair of the environment committee, mr kyprianou has given his assurance that the commission will make full use of its competence to adopt emergency measures if the european food safety authority advises that food additives are not safe for the consumer.
so we can look at it from different perspectives, economic, financial, technological, environmental, and so on.
we need to create an environment that supports entrepreneurship, investment and social development.
i also find the idea of setting up a parliamentary group to deal with the coordination and consistency of global economic, social and environmental policies and to develop integrated supervision of the most important international organisations interesting.
this has led to amendments on agricultural policy, environmental aspects, oil and gas trade, etc.
however, it maintains that the international agreement concluded between the eu and canada and the russian federation, the environmental part of which this directive seeks to transpose into european law, is one of the first two to explicitly address the issue of wildlife welfare.
with the minimum targets for the collection of waste batteries and accumulators, for which 25% after 6 years seems to be a feasible target, it seems to me a reasonable proposal to test the feasibility of a second, 10-year target in the enlarged european union in the meantime.
climate change poses a threat to both the world's population and the environment.
at the same time, europe is increasingly dependent on imported fossil fuels, which has a significant impact on its energy security.
the european union therefore faces two major challenges in the energy sector: how to reduce import dependence and how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the commitments of the kyoto protocol and beyond.
in both cases, we can use the untapped potential of energy efficiency.
when drafting the energy end-use efficiency directive, we took one of two approaches.
the proposal for member states to produce three reports on energy efficiency and for the implementation of commitments to be closely monitored requires more work and greater administrative burden.
i welcome the objective you have set as the most important of this mandate and i support the directive on energy end-use efficiency.