as we now discuss kyoto, the small island nations are preparing for their conference on climate problems that are forgotten on the other side of the world, despite the threat of expulsion of their entire people because of the destroyed environment.
while not every storm and damage can be blamed on climate change, an increase in frequency is a sure consequence of man's lack of responsibility.
the introduction of a carbon tax on flights within the eu, you don't have to wait.
it also introduced a climate levy on imports from countries which do not meet the kyoto targets.
we must now draw up an action plan to reduce emissions by at least 30% by 2020. we already know that this is the least we can do for the raw material needs of future generations and the raw material needs of poor countries and a stable climate.
social policy, taxation, energy policy, police policy, alcohol policy are all things that citizens should be involved in shaping together in the democratic process of each country.
there are important tasks which we must carry out jointly, not least in the areas of the environment, human trafficking and social dumping.
environmental scientists claim that the disaster could have been avoided, if not entirely avoided, with much less loss of life and property if the coral reefs and mangrove forests had been allowed to remain.
is there no serious attention being paid to the problems of poverty and ecological security?
take seriously all the reports that show the bad ecological damage in the area before the disaster by improper exploitation.
environmental considerations in reconstruction are vital to prevent further erosion of living conditions and to reduce the risk of new disasters.
we have voted in favour of today's resolution on climate change.
we share the concern about the environmental impact of this project.
the complexity of climate change and its causes means that measures should also be questioned and subject to a more critical scrutiny than the resolution expresses.
global climate change is a major problem which we believe there are good reasons to address at international level.
we also oppose the commission and the member states emphasizing the need for climate protection in the context of dialogues with other countries.
stable and sustainable growth is needed in europe.
sustainable development is the basis for growth, and the programme is too weak in this respect.
if we are to deliver on the fundamental social and environmental objectives which are at the heart of our european values, then economic growth is a must.
this is the case for energy and telecommunications markets, as jonathan evans points out in his report.
this low growth creates a situation of high unemployment and a lack of jobs and raises serious doubts about the sustainability of our social model and, in general, about the sustainability of our social model.
the instruments should be improved with this agreement so that the governance of the stability and growth pact avoids the failures we have seen in the experience of recent years, helps countries with excessive deficit problems to regain an adjustment path, to meet the treaty reference values, both in terms of deficit and debt, to put more emphasis on sustainability and the long term, because the challenge of ageing populations is approaching, and at the same time to better link budgetary discipline which remains a necessary element for growth and the strategy of growth, more jobs, sustainability, which is the lisbon strategy, because they are two interlinked strategies.
one, more sustainability, more social cohesion, more growth, more employment and more competitiveness; the other, better budgetary discipline and more sustainable public finances as a necessary basis for economic stability and to create the conditions that all investors, all wealth creators, require to look to the future with more confidence.
children are very sensitive to environmental influences.
in this report we have been told that there is a need to focus more on particularly vulnerable groups, but also that the collection of data should be done in such a way that more information can be obtained on how different groups in society are exposed and affected by different types of pollution in the environment.
it's not just our environment that causes ill health.
the marine environment is vital for all of us and for future generations.
it is also true that pollution of the seas and marine environment is a genuine transboundary problem and a genuine transboundary challenge.
as i see it, the decision we are going to take tomorrow will lead to an improvement in the situation of the seas and the marine environment.
it could be good for fighting oil pollution in all its forms.
the moderate delegation in the european parliament voted today in favour of the ries report on the european environment and health action plan 2004-2010. we believe, however, that it is wrong for the european parliament to call on the commission to take initiatives on lifestyle-related diseases or various measures against smoking.
we moderates believe that the eu is an important tool in the quest for a better environment, but the eu's responsibility is limited.
the eu should only be responsible for environmental issues which are clearly transnational.
it is therefore wrong to call on the commission to promote the eco-labelling of building materials, the drawing up of lists of dangerous workplaces and the establishment of environmental ambulances.
the health effects of environmental pollution are a key societal issue requiring broad engagement.
a european environment action plan shall exclusively include transboundary environmental issues.
the risk is that you will have less sustainable fishing and less ecological fishing if you send a very different type of boat than the one traditionally used in the area.
a good working environment is important for all employees.
the junilista group, however, believes that each member state must be allowed to choose how it wants to achieve a good working environment.
on the other side of us we have a very large country, russia, where putin has seen that energy is power and is gathering more and more of this power in the form of the various energy companies in russia in his own hand, literally in the kremlin.
we have ten new member states which are very dependent on energy imports from russia.
we also have huge environmental problems, which we all agree must be solved, and very ambitious environmental targets.
at the same time, energy prices are rising.
european industry needs more and more energy, as do transport and households.
so we have an instability in the energy grids that is not acceptable.
as far as energy policy in europe is concerned, we must stabilise the supply of energy.
so my first question is: how does the commission ensure that energy supply is stabilised?
we also need to transform europe's energy supply, i.e.
we need to get the green energy we agree is needed.
we have an industry that needs energy.
we also have environmental and employment objectives to meet.
thirdly, we need to revitalise the energy supply, i.e.
my question is what is being done to ensure that european basic industry, through district heating, district heating, co-generation, etc., also produces more energy.
mr. speaker, energy is power.
secondly, if the labour market is excluded and the host country principle applies, environmental standards, consumer law, etc., how can a directive be regarded as the fundamental principle of the country of origin?
this could be important measures to combat environmental degradation or legislation to improve equality and fairness in europe.
separating economic growth from social and environmental development must be a mistake since these three areas are linked.
the other two, in this case environmental and social development, will have to await their turn for president barroso’s attention.
investment in environmental technology leads to more jobs, boosts innovation and creates sustainable growth.
new technologies for saving energy are another example of business interests being in tune with environmental concerns.
we need to create a competitive and sustainable economy in europe; this also means investing in research and development.
the major groups have negotiated this resolution and the clear message is that economic growth, social cohesion and environmental development have to be seen as a whole.
i believe that our influence lies in the fact that in our resolution we have managed to maintain what is fundamental to the lisbon process, namely the balance between the three pillars of growth, social cohesion and ecological sustainability.
it was said that we need growth to cope with welfare and ecological sustainability.
that is true, but the opposite is also true, namely that we need social cohesion and long-term sustainable investment to cope with long-term growth.
that investment in growth must be made in ways that carefully weigh up the social and environmental consequences.
the idea of 'growth first, then we'll take care of the rest' is wrong and represents an unfortunate return to the debate before the adoption of the eu's sustainability strategy in gothenburg in 2001. the eu is facing a number of difficult environmental challenges.
the risk of irreversible changes in the climate system is particularly serious.
to address this problem, we need to re-engineer europe's energy and transport systems.
they fall under five headings: basic research, free movement of researchers within the eu, large-scale research in areas such as fusion energy and space technology, research network infrastructure and common security issues for the eu.
the problem is not that the 'everything but arms' initiative exists, but that it is not complemented by social considerations, environmental considerations and guarantees for small farmers.
the environment party opposes the terrorist list as it does not have objective criteria and the decisions cannot be appealed, no rights are given to those who are put on the list.
in view of article 44 the world's most important environmental problem is global warming.
the eu has joined the kyoto protocol, whose main objective is to reduce carbon emissions.
as you know, it was an official who was suspected of helping a company in a procurement of energy infrastructure.
the key words that come to mind for an average european citizen are top management, establishment, waste, corruption.
it is a terrible waste and a rather scary way of dealing with the taxpayers' money.
i too would like to thank rapporteur satu hassi for her good work on this very important environmental issue.
the sulphur emissions from many different sources have decreased significantly in recent years.
but emissions from shipping are still very high and shipping uses really dirty fuels that are not used elsewhere.
the proportion of sulphur emissions from shipping is currently unacceptably high.
the main reason why it does not take advantage of the technical possibilities we actually have to clean up emissions and fuels is the opposition of several countries in the council.
sulphur emissions cause major problems for human health, dried up lakes, destroyed buildings and cultural heritage.
it is therefore also good that we in the eu have succeeded in reducing sulphur emissions, at least from land-based sources, in recent years and that we are now taking a step forward in terms of emissions from marine fuels.
i really hope that this is an exception and that it will not be the case that this parliament is less green and less responsible for our future environment.
at any rate, we are now opening up to move on to the second phase of further reducing sulphur emissions.
mr president, we are very worried about the current growth rate of the european economy, the high unemployment rates and all the social and environmental problems we have to deal with.
the second policy area is energy.
we know that we have environmental problems, unemployment problems and regional development problems and that we need the production of biomass, district heating and trigeneration.
yet there is no cooperation between agricultural policy, energy policy and industrial policy.
we must be able to preserve the european social model, we must be able to have high environmental standards and strong consumer rights.
fourthly, sustainable development is a mainstream issue.
it is about ecologically sustainable development, but it is also about economic and social sustainability to an equal extent.
i will not mention which countries have met the requirements, but when you look at those countries you can see that they have combined growth, high employment, strong social systems and high environmental standards.
it is also permissible to have relatively low ambitions in a country's environmental policy during a phase when the country is poor and must prioritise growth.
what is unacceptable is to grant special exemptions from existing environmental requirements in order to favour individual companies or sectors.
it's called environmental dumping.
we need a real reform of fisheries policy and a complete change of approach to our relationship with poor countries and to the sustainable use of our natural resources.
knowing the environment and being able to intervene early is important for health care.
pollution from households, agriculture and industry is increasing.
when groundwater is polluted, the consequences are more long-lasting than in the case of surface water pollution.
therefore, it is difficult to find a common standard that is suitable for all groundwater resources in the eu and that at the same time provides the most positive result for the environment.
we believe that an approach which took greater account of the wide diversity of groundwater resources in different parts of the eu would have been more beneficial for the environment.
the junilists are elected with the mandate that only cross-border environmental issues are decided at eu level.
the directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution should therefore be proposed for a period of three years, to be replaced by a directive which takes account of the principle of subsidiarity.
there are positive elements in the resolution which we support, including a call for increased environmental work and support for the international criminal court.
unfortunately, i sometimes get the feeling that the environment committee then sees it as its task to make half-baked proposals bad.
but as i said, the environment committee's proposal which we are going to vote on is unfortunately an example of the committee's wish to make half of the legislation bad.
george w. bush gave an energy and climate speech just this day and unfortunately that speech didn't show any real movement in the right direction.
but i agree with you that dialogue with the united states is extremely important, because without their active participation, climate action can never be truly effective.
the emissions from these will completely overshadow what we do in europe.
the conclusion, of course, is that the developing countries do not have to go down exactly the same path in energy development as we have.
the situation is serious, as recent research reports indicate that the climate system may be far more fragile than we previously thought.
it will be much more difficult to stay within the two degrees of temperature rise set by the eu and to avoid dangerous changes in the climate, what the british call dangerous climate change.
we also believe that such objectives must be followed by much more ambitious programmes in terms of both the development of new sources of energy and increased investment in energy efficiency.
the un's intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has found that these global climate changes are having the greatest impact on the world's poor.
the reasons why poor people are the main victims of global climate change are many.
this is partly because these countries' economies are often dominated by climate-sensitive sectors, especially agriculture.
resources are also too scarce for preventive healthcare, making it difficult to stop the risk of outbreaks of climate-related diseases, such as malaria.
the rich countries of the world need to coordinate their joint efforts on climate change and work on preventive measures.
my party believes that the eu should work on cross-border environmental issues.
climate change is one of them, and i therefore support constructive and well-thought-out proposals from the union in this area, and in doing so i would point out that the un convention on climate change has been ratified by 189 parties.
we cannot therefore work unilaterally through european institutions, but must also coordinate our actions within the framework of other international organisations and be responsive to the competent bodies of the un and the world energy council (wec).
sometimes it seems that we have a lot of knowledge but we lack the political will to do more to tackle climate change.
i hope that this meeting can help to draw attention to positive examples of how to reduce the impact of climate change, not least in terms of community planning, because sometimes it seems that climate issues are only considered as an environmental issue on the side, for those who are most interested.
i also hope that the meeting will discuss how to integrate measures aimed at reducing climate impact and achieving sustainable development into the wto trading system as well as into other international agreements.
this is what is needed to get more countries to take the necessary action, but this type of regulation could also help to reduce the transport that is so much of a climate threat today.
we need to, we need to show our voters and our citizens that we are actually doing something about the biggest challenge we face, which is climate change.
several recent scientific studies show that climate change is likely to be even faster than we thought and that greater reductions in the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are also needed to prevent these changes.
this means that the demands on us are increasing and that the measures we face to reduce emissions by 60-80 per cent by 2050, which is the realistic thing, will require a completely different energy and transport policy than we have today.
we saw in buenos aires that the united states today is not only refusing to take responsibility for itself but is also actively trying to prevent global cooperation on the world's climate.
i also believe that the ultimate loser in this is the united states itself, both ecologically and economically, because with the kind of 'dinosaur system' we have for energy and transport, we will be forced to make even faster and more comprehensive transitions in the future.
i am used to working, for example, with environmental ngos and we give a lot of support to ngos.
the first concerns whether the council considers that the final disposal of radioactive waste is a matter of common interest in that the eu should seek common solutions for different member states and how and where to dispose of its waste.
what we should do is introduce a general fair tariff, where producers who do not comply with ilo and environmental requirements are made to pay.
these tariffs should then be returned to the developing world to improve their environmental and social situation.
the un environment programme (unepo) and the un development programme (undp) should have power over the wto and not the other way around.
global climate change is a problem which we believe there are good reasons to address at international level.
we question, however, why the european parliament should call on the member states and the incoming presidencies to act in a certain way on climate issues.
the resolution contains political views on energy issues, the kyoto protocol and guidelines on how third countries such as china, india and the united states should act.
the report contains calls from the european parliament to member states and third countries on how to act on the urgent climate issue.
we support the general objective of the report, which is to liberalize international trade without compromising basic social and environmental requirements.
the general approach of this report is good, as parliament supports free and fair multilateral trading systems in the context of sustainable development.
we're going to have plans for how we deal with disasters, but the big plan that future generations are expecting us to have here today is to fight climate change, or else this will just be the first example of a long line of people, animals and nature suffering from climate change.
climate research clearly shows that even the ambitious targets we have for a maximum temperature increase of two degrees will not be met by the targets we have set for emission reductions, on the contrary, much stronger policies are needed.
in this context, criticism must be directed at the former spanish government, which has for a long time opposed eu initiatives to introduce climate taxes and eu initiatives to change the energy system to protect the climate.
if this fight against good climate work continues, spain will be hit more times.
i therefore hope that the spanish government will now take the lead in combating climate change on our planet for the future of the spanish people and the rest of the world.
it has long been a strategic partner and together we have many challenges and tasks that require cooperation and common solutions: trade, environment, energy, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, to name just a few.
instead, it will focus on, for example, energy.
we look forward to deepening cooperation in the environmental field, such as maritime and nuclear safety, and to continuing the commitments under the kyoto protocol.
we must also, as we have added in our proposals, ensure sustainable development, both economic, social and environmental.
over-fishing drives people in developing countries deeper into poverty and robs the marine environment of a vital link in the food chain.
we see many fairly sound views being expressed on how growth should be stimulated, the importance of relevant investment, how environmental initiatives can contribute to economic growth and how unemployment creates social injustice.
we want to return it to a confidential cooperation between independent and equal countries and limit it to areas such as the internal market and cross-border environmental problems.
we have chosen to vote in favour of the report on transeuropean energy networks as a whole because this is an important cross-border european issue.
increasing energy efficiency is an important part of the strategy to achieve the kyoto protocol objective.
however, we do not believe that the eu should set detailed energy saving targets or how to achieve them.
the eu can and should intervene in genuinely transnational environmental issues, but it should not dictate energy policy objectives.
we are open to the idea of eu countries creating a web-based portal where member states provide relevant environmental indicators.
if there are any service companies operating in an environment of regulation and monopoly that impedes mobility and competition, it is the healthcare companies.
the eu integrates states and maximises production instead of integrating people and maximising social and environmental protection.
the eu's role in combating poverty, fighting infectious diseases, climate change, etc.
we believe that special excise duties should be allowed on goods which are harmful to our environment.
we believe that special excise duties should be allowed on goods which are harmful to our environment.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
i question whether the eu is really interested in achieving a sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
the criticism is that none of these agreements promote sustainable fishing and are not implemented in a way that complies with the fao code of conduct.
if sustainable development of fisheries resources is indeed a priority for the eu, the union should not only promote action in the mediterranean, as in this report, but also advocate and implement a radical review of the union's fisheries agreements with third countries.
this does not promote sustainable development.
several of the proposals in the resolution are good on how to reform the united nations, including an enlarged and more representative security council, strengthened environmental work and an emphasis on the link between development and the environment.
the resolution can be seen as the european parliament's wish list for the forthcoming eu-us summit in washington on 20 june 2005. it contains proposals for eu-us cooperation in a range of areas, including security policy, the environment, energy and the economy.
we have the ambitious environmental work of reach, and there's a lot of work to do in foreign policy.
more jobs, order and clarity in the labour market, social responsibility, international solidarity, the fight against crime, sustainable development and a europe of equality.
mr president, the lisbon strategy is a very important tool to enhance european economic growth and when we negotiated this in the parliament we were very clear that we wanted sustainable economic growth.
despite this, in your speech, mr blair, you hardly mentioned environmental questions at all.
at the same time, we need good labour market conditions, high environmental standards and consumer rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
secondly, the experience of central european campaigns is generally poor and represents a waste of resources which should not be promoted.
we also stress the importance of giving priority to environmental issues in the structural funds.
many of the report's objectives on sustainable integration, social security and gender equality are worth pursuing.
we all know the serious background to the proposed directive on waste from the extractive industries.
these accidents illustrate the enormous environmental risks and international repercussions of improper management of mining waste.
to this must be added a series of minor accidents and a kind of ongoing environmental poisoning from old historical waste around our nature that has not been properly managed, and from which, among other things, heavy metals are released into the water systems.
the european union today has no good rules to deal with these environmental problems.
the waste regulations are not adapted to this type of waste.
we will make a very strict demand on the safety and sustainability of dams.
it is therefore important that we adopt the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, which now mean that we are trying to restore what was adopted at first reading.
we want not only an inventory of the old mine waste, but we also want something to be done about it, which in parliament's proposal means obligations.
we also believe that the environmental problems arising from cavities after mining should be covered by the directive.
the council's common position excludes large waste groups from essential parts of the directive, such as the financial guarantee.
to avoid this, we must adopt amendment no 13. it is important to remember that even waste that is not chemically hazardous can cause very serious environmental problems.
this also applies to inert waste.
no long-term derogations can be granted, since waste can be put aside and a proper waste facility must be built.
voting against these amendments would mean lowering environmental ambitions.
a strict and good directive in this area will not only benefit the environment, but it will also benefit the best, the most serious and the most modern and environmentally conscious mining companies.
at the same time, it will disadvantage those who do not take their environmental responsibility, which is good.
it will benefit environmental engineering and research.
it can make the eu a world leader in the field of mining environmental technology, which is also a positive thing and can mean that we can help other regions of the world.
with the proposals put forward by the environment committee in my report, we have the opportunity to prevent future serious accidents, such as those in spain and romania.
we also have the opportunity to consistently address past environmental sins and improve water quality.
we have chosen to support this report because the management of waste from the mining industry is partly a transnational environmental issue.
however, we are critical of the use of structural fund funds for the inventory of closed waste facilities.
environmental and labour market issues, for example, are of course topical at all levels.
the baltic sea cannot tolerate pollution, but around the baltic sea there is now intensive economic activity and intensive agriculture with a lot of emissions.
this means that we should work on things like saving flora and fauna, clean up emissions, controlling shipping and shutting down the nuclear power stations at st petersburg.
we share the view that the disasters are largely due to climate change, which brings extreme weather conditions.
to address climate change, global work on the kyoto protocol must continue and be intensified.
no eu bodies responsible for monitoring various climate factors will be established.
the environment party is against a harmonised asylum policy because it risks becoming undemocratic and a race to the bottom.
the environment party is against a harmonised asylum policy because it risks becoming undemocratic and a race to the bottom.
it's also about energy.
it's good for the environment and good for our productivity.
europe needs railways, mainly for environmental reasons but also for freight and passenger transport.
the partnership with the eu also entails obligations to fish carefully, protect our common environment and use eu support money responsibly.
we must now shift our focus to renewable energy sources and fuels.
in the field of transport, we must research new renewable fuels, such as synthetic diesel.
the un summit made clear the need for cooperation against terrorism, climate change, international crime, migration and weapons of mass destruction and that more cooperation is needed, not less.
the transition from conflict to sustainable peace requires all the resources and civil solutions.
the biodiversity of the baltic sea is very fragile.
therefore, trying to protect unprofitable industries from international competition is not a sustainable solution.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the introduction of a european standard for the quality of water.
as regards the legal basis, we would like to make it absolutely clear that this is an environmental issue.
the aim must be to address the serious environmental problems associated with the trade in waste.
we think it is completely unreasonable to treat hazardous waste as a commodity like others and we therefore believe that article 175 should be the sole legal basis.
when we discuss climate issues in this house, we tend to agree quite a bit.
we tend to agree that we are the biggest environmental problem of our time, we tend to agree that we have to do more.
now that we're here, now that we can do more, now that we can make sure that some of the most harmful greenhouse gases are eliminated or phased out, or at least limited.
this is an environmental issue.
it would be absurd to want to lower the environmental standards already in place in some of the eu member states when they should actually be tightened up.
yes, it is possible, but my group believes that the right of democratic countries to tighten environmental standards if it is good for the environment - and it is - takes precedence over the right of companies to sell the exact same product across a certain market.
these same companies often want to call themselves environmentally friendly or claim to have a modern environmental policy.
in the legislative field, we should also, if possible, avoid adopting a particular technical solution simply because it is the best for the environment at the time of the legislation.
instead, we should set maximum levels for emissions and other environmental impacts.
in this context, i am actually quite satisfied with the environment committee's proposal to limit the use of greenhouse gases, although i would naturally have liked some of my own amendments, which go a little further, for example on the use of hydrofluorocarbons, to have also been approved by the majority of the committee, but the environment committee has nevertheless decided to require more substances to be phased out than those proposed by the council.
environmental standards should not be harmonised downwards but upwards within the eu.
as far as air conditioning in cars is concerned, we have not been convinced that there are any reasons today to require that the gas used must not have a warming potential higher than 50, partly because the climate gains from such a reduction are very small and at the same time very costly, but above all because the technology with carbon dioxide is still too untested for us to stick to it.
finally, i would like to call on everyone to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment tomorrow, and of course the amendments tabled by the socialist group, including those on introducing the stricter rules on air conditioning in cars at an earlier date than the committee on the environment has proposed.
this report strikes a balance between the internal market and the environment.
in principle, we believe that the eu member states should decide for themselves whether or not to allow domestic companies to import waste from other countries.
however, compliance with international agreements and the absence of environmental risks for other member states are necessary.
we have chosen to support the line of the committee on the environment, which represents a reasonable compromise between environmental considerations and compliance with the rules of the internal market.
we therefore believe that international shipments of waste should be allowed, provided that the waste as such does not pose a significant environmental risk.
in line with the above reasoning, we have opposed the rapporteur's position on some key points, such as that waste shipments should not be allowed if the waste can be handled in the country which produced it.
now, bringing poor countries like romania and bulgaria into an eu that continues to be dragged down by an unreasonable agricultural policy, a poorly managed structural policy and that is struggling to prevent waste and corruption in its own system is dangerous for the future of the european project.
those who want to slow down enlargement talk about the danger of taking in poor countries, that the eu treaty referendums changed the eu climate and that europe has become colder.
we have a common history and culture and also common problems and solutions: terrorism, migration, growth, development, trade, environment, energy, yes, there are many.
we want the budget to contribute to the sustainable social, economic and environmental development of the eu in line with the lisbon strategy.
this support results in inefficient agriculture that harms the environment and, by dumping surpluses, contributes to widening the gap between the world's poor and rich.
this includes proposals to establish a free trade area between the eu and the mediterranean by 2010, and to develop cooperation on civil and environmental protection.
what are they doing to us and our environment?
the next breath they take is to accuse the whole of parliament of not caring about the environment.
i think it's cowardly, and it doesn't help the environment.
for all these reasons, new chemicals legislation represents a great opportunity for the environment, people and businesses.
the committee on industry, which is responsible for industry, small businesses and research, has therefore, in accordance with its mandate, focused its work on changes paving the way for new, modern technologies, innovations and modern environmental technologies.
in europe, environmentally-driven industries are growing at twice the rate of average industry and are an incredibly important tool for creating jobs and sustainable growth in a knowledge-based economy.
however, for reach to be this engine for sustainable growth, the proposal needs to be simplified, strengthened and clarified.
it needs to be simplified for the survival of small businesses, strengthened for a better environment and clarified because it is very vague on some points.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the attacks by nassauer, schulz, poettering and ek on reach are, on the other hand, a concessionary policy of the german chemical industry, which is destroying the environment and health and sabotaging workers and all small businesses who want to know what the chemicals they buy do and how they affect us.
for a year the environment committee has been working in an efficient and balanced way to protect public interests, health and the environment.
how can we protect workers without information and clear requirements on the working environment?
in the committee on the environment, we have reached a generally good compromise.
to lena ek, i would like to say the following: you talk about the environment, but you have consistently worked at every opportunity to weaken this bill and make it worse.
this is the most important environmental proposal we have dealt with in the eu system for many years.
what you're representing is not environmental policy.
i would like to say to the european commission: you've lost credibility on environmental issues.
you have no credibility in environmental policy anymore.
reach is a cross-border issue, affecting both the environment and the internal market.
i hope that we will be a majority that takes this opportunity to assert european competitiveness, but above all to put an end to the experiment with human health and the environment that the current legislation actually entails.
like the consumer movement, the trade union movement and the environmental movement, we swedish social democrats will not support the compromise on registration between the pse, alde and ppe-de groups.
climate change is one of the most serious threats we face.
i want to emphasize that it can no longer be seen as an environmental problem.
a warmer climate is a more unstable climate, and it poses a threat to virtually every sector of our society, a threat that must be considered part of our security problem.
while i say this, i would like to stress the importance of not seeing the climate issue as a problem and a burden.
there's a collaborative group called the climate group in the world, which is a bunch of big companies that are showing that in a fairly short period of time, it's possible to both reduce emissions and make a lot of money.
i believe that the necessary transformation of energy and transport systems in our part of the world should be a major lever in the lisbon process and should be able to create new jobs and export opportunities.
we believe that the eu should continue to play a leading role in climate action at international level.
but we're only responsible for a fraction of the emissions, about 14 percent, today.
for them, energy is first and foremost a matter of growth and development, but they do not need to repeat our mistakes.
it is a fact today that governments around the world are spending less as a percentage of gdp on energy research than they did 30 years ago.
we must stimulate energy conservation, as has already been stressed on several occasions.
we welcome the inclusion of shipping and aviation in climate policy.
we believe that we must draw the right conclusions from the difficulties of reducing emissions from road transport.
we therefore need and propose ambitious and binding rules on co2 emissions from new vehicles.
we need to expand emissions trading, but we must of course make sure that allocation is not as ambitious as it was last year.
we have an idea to consider in the long term some form of emissions trading on an individual level.
perhaps this is not possible in practice, but a first step should be to increase the knowledge of the carbon content of everything we buy and transport.
we should make sure that our buildings and our transport are as low-carbon as possible.
ensure that the eu can continue to play a leading role and drive international climate action towards positive results.
it was pleasing to hear commissioner dimas at the international energy conference in beijing the other day expressing his support for parliament's ambition of 25 per cent renewable energy by 2020, and commissioner dimas also saying that renewable energy is a cornerstone for overcoming problems such as climate change, poverty and general economic development.
however, if we are to create a market for renewable energy, the costs of today's unsustainable reliance on fossil fuels must be clearly demonstrated.
it is not enough to show the effects of these enormous emissions on the environment and public health, they must also be expressed in terms of euros and cents.
it is only when we see clearly the costs of carbon dioxide emissions from this sector that we will really boost both the demand and the supply of renewable energy sources.
my first question is therefore whether and when the commission intends to include the transport sector in the european emissions trading scheme.
my second question concerns the share of renewable energy sources.
one reason for this is that the requirements of modern environmental policy are largely ignored in energy policy.
given the conditions we have, we will not be able to meet the kyoto targets by relying on renewable fuels.
we cannot achieve the kyoto targets by regulating the economy or by cutting costs, because that would be contrary to the aim of creating the conditions for a better economy that takes better account of environmental requirements.
we cannot solve the problems by slowing down economic development, but we must have an environmental policy which is compatible with a consistent and credible energy policy.
then we must also look at the basis of our energy supply.
nevertheless, we see that it is primarily the use of oil and gas that increases as nuclear power is phased out, with increasing carbon dioxide emissions as a consequence.
nuclear power generation in europe represents 50% of co2 emissions in the current energy mix.
nuclear power generation in europe reduces co2 emissions equivalent to those from passenger cars.
nuclear power will not solve the environmental problems, but you cannot solve the problems of our environment and the kyoto targets by ignoring nuclear power.
it is therefore an important task for this parliament and also for the member states to pursue a credible energy policy which does not aim at phasing out nuclear power and replacing it with oil and gas, but at ensuring that nuclear power can play a significant role in the balance of energy policy that is needed.
– mr president, i wish to add the following text to the end of paragraph 24 after the words ‘blending ratios’: ‘examining the environmental effectiveness of requiring 10% biofuel blends in transport fuels’.
environmental issues, nuclear safety and the fight against international crime should be given priority.
global climate change is a major problem which we believe there is good reason to address at international level.
we are also critical of eu initiatives to make citizens aware of the climate impact of excessive consumption and production.
we are in favour of a minimum level of carbon tax within the eu.
it is gratifying that the committee on the environment rejected the commission's proposal.
this opinion has been incorporated into the report of the committee on the environment and recommends that article 175 should be the legal basis of the proposal.
this article concerns the union's environmental policy.
however, animal welfare for wildlife is not part of eu environmental policy and is not even within eu competence.
the fact that trap-trapping is an important part of wildlife and environmental conservation is ignored.
, for the alde group i can say that the line of work that we in the alde group have followed, to strengthen the environment, to clarify the ambiguities that exist and to simplify for small businesses, has won a very strong victory.
these include the internal market and many environmental issues.
these include the internal market and many environmental issues.
finally, we mention in particular the major problems facing many countries in tropical areas because of the more unstable climate.
a ban on cadmium in batteries in these tools would be a major environmental gain.
we want to raise them and we think, as does the rapporteur, that the legal basis for this proposal is article 175, because it is aimed at a better environment and nothing else.
this is an environmental issue and article 175 is natural.
it is new battery technology that benefits consumers and is good for the environment, not old technology that worsens for consumers and the environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the introduction of a new directive on the protection of the environment.
the position of the committee on the environment sets out clear priorities and clarifies the objectives of the directive.
the junilist supports eu action on cross-border environmental issues.
emissions of heavy metals are one such area.
we therefore voted in favour of this report and broadly support the position of the committee on the environment on this matter.
we have voted against all the amendments because we do not think that the european parliament should have any say in how energy is saved in the member states.
a non-discriminatory system of tolling kilometres on european roads is important for environmental reasons but also for competition reasons.
we are also giving greater attention to issues such as democracy and human rights, the importance of sustainable use of natural resources, the role of women in development work, etc.
the eu budget is primarily used to create full employment in europe and to contribute to sustainable social, economic and environmental development.
direct agricultural aid is oversized and leads to inefficient farming which damages the environment and widen the gap between the world's rich and poor.
road tolls may be eligible to charge for road wear and environmental pollution.
we believe that heavy goods transport is an important part of the internal market, and that environmental problems are transnational and that there is therefore an added value in dealing with these issues at eu level.