the transition to the knowledge society, the globalisation of the economy, social, democratic and environmental change, and the profound changes in the world of work, not least because of the new technologies, are the major challenges of the third millennium, which also require new efforts in the field of education.
the rapid technological development and environmental change make it even more clear how important it is to be mindful of our natural heritage and to take responsibility for it, i.e.
i am very grateful that none of the speakers have called for the relaxation of environmental regulations.
we already had a waste management law in 1990 and a regulation banning halogenated substances in 1993. we are being wrongly accused.
we are in favour of a multifunctional model of agriculture, where farmers are not only responsible for producing food, but also where much of their work benefits society as a whole, which enjoys and recreates in an intact nature and a liveable rural environment.
sustainable and profitable forestry and the wood industry are of great importance to europe in many ways.
i would like to remind you of the environmental aspects as well as the ecosocial and economic aspects.
wood as a raw material is the largest renewable energy source in europe.
as far as climate protection and the objectives of the kyoto protocol are concerned, sustainable forestry can make a significant contribution here.
on the environment, we should not be fooled.
nine years after rio, we are still far from being able to make sense of the sustainability issues that were outlined there.
wood is a renewable material, a building material with a future.
these are essential to the independence of europe's energy supply, and wood will play a major role here in the future.
as a representative of a country facing major problems with alpine transit, i call on the european union to tackle this problem with greater energy, because it has not yet sufficiently assumed its responsibilities in this area.
in this harmonized system, it is also imperative to take ecological and geographical aspects into account.
all this in the interests of the environment and the people.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the environmental costs must therefore also be taken into account, which - although mr jarzembowski still does not quite believe this, but he is half convinced - are certainly clearly higher on the road than on the railway.
i believe that emas ii was a minimum requirement to ensure compliance with existing environmental legislation.
i think that two- and three-wheelers are the trend, they are modern, and that is why we should do everything we can to ensure that they are also up to date with regard to emissions standards.
the amendments nos 13 and 17 have added what was also missing, namely the environment, which seems to be a particular concern of the swedish presidency, and where much can still be done.
i am also very grateful to mr schwaiger, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, for his view that consumer protection, animal welfare and health are very important issues and that we will deal with them as a matter of priority at a later stage.
the member states have blocked and they also have the responsibility to ensure that the union does not move forward with regard to the implementation of environmental policy.
more than 150 cases are currently pending for violations or non-compliance with environmental legislation.
as much as this parliament welcomes any progress in environmental policy, there are grounds for doubting the seriousness of the union's environmental policy if the important step of implementation, of monitoring implementation, is omitted.
our conditions, the coordination of inspections between member states when it comes to crossborder environmental crime, are an improvement, also the publication of inspection reports two months after the inspections have been carried out.
i hope, of course, that the effectiveness of this recommendation will be demonstrated, that environmental legislation will be more effective, that improvement will be seen.
an 18 percent energy saving would mean 1,900 terawatt hours less energy consumed.
when we talk about energy efficiency today, we naturally think first of security of energy supply, and security of supply is certainly one of the topics in the european union.
we therefore want to reduce energy intensity.
the combination of power and heat can be used with fossil energy just as with renewable energy.
we are particularly focusing on renewable energy, and here we have positive examples such as pellet heating, where this combination of power and heat can also be operated very efficiently.
the coordination of european initiatives is very demanding when one thinks of programmes such as save, altener, the fifth framework programme for research and energy.
- (de) we are in favour of a national environmental tax to achieve the objective without any additional burden on citizens and businesses.
international competitiveness can be strengthened in a sustainable way.
the security of energy supply is one of the foundations of the economy.
i would therefore like to make it very clear that we must once again appeal to all member states to implement the will to reform more vigorously and to make structural measures sustainable.
the inflation rate must be kept below 2% in the second half of the year, and a balanced liberalisation of the telecommunications, postal, energy and railway sectors must be rapidly implemented.
freedom and democracy, competition, price stability and sustainable growth, subsidiarity, solidarity and private property, and the responsibility not only of employers towards their employees but of both towards the future and thus the further development of the social market economy towards an eco-social market economy.
the eu has also made progress in the area of the protection of the environment.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's energy policy.
the fact that food safety and quality, consumer protection and sustainable agriculture should be the union's primary economic policy objectives is unlikely to be seriously questioned.
- but also, of course, in product research - how can renewable energy be produced in agriculture, for example, and how can this be done to counteract europe's dependence on imports?
since emissions are an essential measure of how transport and mobility will be regulated in the future, is there any plan to consider in the research field to carry out cost-benefit analyses to determine in which areas of transport pollution would be low or zero?
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
i therefore support the line taken by the committee on agriculture and rural development that the cultivation of set-aside land may also be allowed, for those farmers who participate in the environmental measures under regulation 1257/99.
i would remind you that we have many documents, such as the white paper on renewable energy sources, and many directives which we do not fully apply and implement.
we must also try to convince the american intelligence community, bypassing the american government, of the benefits of reducing pollution.
it is essentially the environmental benefits that shine through.
if we create this communication, we have a chance to prove that the economic future also lies in the implementation of environmental goals.
(applause from the centre)
mr president, according to the international atomic energy agency, the number of thyroid cancer cases has increased sharply.
therefore, no sham environmental tests should be carried out as in temelin!
in austria there is no one, no party, who is in favour of using nuclear energy.
further structural reforms are urgently needed because we need to move from one-off effects to sustainability.
the social market economy promotes social responsibility, environmental sustainability and education policies that are intended to be lifelong learning.
it has, after all, worked through, evaluated and discussed 334 pages of very detailed material, 70 pages on dangerous substances and 264 pages on waste equipment.
we want to promote waste separation and separate the disposal of electrical and electronic equipment from household waste.
we know that historical waste reaches enormous amounts.
what is important to me about the ban on substances is that we only replace substances with alternatives that are demonstrably better, sustainable and, above all, scientifically tested.
i have to say, madam president, president prodi, i would like to know if you think it would be useful to look systematically at the budget lines of the european union to see which budget lines actually provide sustainable development.
could we use a method of best practice to check which budget lines are actually substantially promoting sustainable development?
- mr president, the evaluation of a wide-ranging and not always specifically formulated ten-year programme of eu environmental policy is difficult in itself.
in the discussion on the evaluation of the fifth environment action programme in view of the sixth, three main concerns were repeatedly expressed in the outlines, which i now find gratefully: firstly, a lean eu legislation, a voluntary approach to implementation - as far as possible - and a stronger involvement of consumers, whose behaviour we want to influence.
in my view, the eu path is often two-tracked, contradictory, difficult to implement and involves bureaucracy and costs that go beyond the ecological purpose.
the implementation of the current eu acquis, which is mentioned in the environment action programme and which commissioner wallström has rightly called for time and again, makes sense, and this is also in the sense of the lean legislation we have repeatedly called for.
i'm missing a lot of things in this environmental program.
mr linkohr pointed out the situation when it came to the abrupt and sometimes erratic movements in the price of oil, and also to the fact that a number of countries took measures which were not in line with the rules and principles of the european union on the one hand, but also with what we are discussing today, especially in terms of sustainable development.
i particularly welcome the fact that the president of the commission has made it quite clear today that sustainable development is one of the essential cornerstones of the european union's development, and that this includes a transport policy that is oriented towards it.
if we have adopted a railway package, if the commissioner proposes further measures, which we are waiting for, then the whole thing also has the purpose of achieving a shift, particularly in the area of freight, passenger and local transport, as a major contribution to sustainable development.
this is also important to achieve if we want to give sustainability not only a title but also a content.
tax harmonization, especially in the energy sector, is an absolute basis for citizens to understand that we are not only socially but also democratically united.
economic and environmental aspects must be taken into account in the discussion.
there is still a lot to be done in the area of the law of succession and the environmental aspects of it.
if we consider specific training, particularly in terms of noise and the environment, we could achieve a great deal in this area.
one of the objectives of the gothenburg summit was to develop a strategy for sustainable development.
mr president, this directive is a major step towards the kyoto target and a milestone on the road to a sustainable energy economy and energy policy in the european union.
of course i would have preferred to have binding targets, but we must now do even more persuasive work to give renewable energy a chance on the market, namely a voluntary one.
another long-term goal is to have all forms of energy labelled, because the energy consumer has the right to know from which primary energy source his electricity comes.
i believe that it is also necessary to ensure that the cost is shared efficiently and fairly within the european union, so that the promotion of renewable energy is also comparable and follows the same standards.
i also believe that small and safe cycles are important for the future of europe and for security of supply, and as we have seen with water cycles, they are actually the best and cleanest way of producing energy.
if the transmission system operators now ensure that there is no discrimination and that renewable energy is given priority, we can be very satisfied.
spain, germany and austria already have the facilities and the ways to deal with renewable energies that others can take over.
we have voted today, at second reading, on the promotion of electricity from renewable sources in the internal electricity market.
the commission's white paper has set us a target of 12% of energy consumption to be covered by renewable energy by 2010. to achieve this, we must promote renewable energy generation through various incentives, because we are not close to that target.
i would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of renewable energy for rural areas.
the production of energy, the cultivation of energy crops, offers an alternative source of income for our farmers in europe, which must be exploited.
recital d: inadequate management of mining activities and the disposal of mining waste is a global problem.
many large companies operating worldwide, on the contrary, are more likely to be pioneers in strict safety and environmental standards.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the pollution of the sea.
but there are also things which are expressly welcomed, for example, paragraph 8, last sentence: 'parliament further considers that the landfill directive does not constitute an appropriate framework for the legal regulation of mining waste and urges the commission to submit a proposal for a separate directive on mining waste.'
the european mining industry is, i believe, very much aware of its responsibility and is therefore calling for its own directive on mining waste.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a safe manner.
the fact that the landfill directive is not applicable because of the specific nature of the mining sector and would not lead to any improvement in the ecological and economic situation of the mining companies is, i think, well known to all of us.
in the environmental field, too, we support malta's efforts to support the short-term priorities of the accession partnership on water and air pollution and the reduction of landfills, and therefore express our understanding of malta's policy on banning the use of plastic bottles.
the transit contract is certainly of particular importance because transit traffic in austria - a unique situation in the european union - not only accounts for a very high proportion of total traffic - up to 80% on some routes - but also, due to the geographical situation and the fact that the country is relatively small, contributes to a relatively high burden on the environment, especially on sensitive areas.
the commission is not the vote on the repeal of the 108% clause is about much more than just an environmental issue in austria.
i am not trying - and i do not want to - to play the internal market, competition, environment and transport policy against each other.
secondly, how seriously are we taking our european environmental and transport policy?
i quote from article 6 (new) of the amsterdam treaty: 'the requirements of environmental protection must be taken into account in the formulation and implementation of the community policies referred to in article 3, such as the free movement of goods.'
or, ladies and gentlemen, will environmental protection and sustainable development be left to mere words?
the match tomorrow is between free movement of goods and environmental protection.
there was also too little discussion about the background of the supportive environment, the sources of funding, the political drivers of these acts of violence.
however, we remain committed to this objective and, by voting on paragraph 2 (a) to (c) of the legislative resolution, we have contributed to the fact that, in the next steps in the search for targeted and sustainable solutions to the transport problems of the so-called sensitive regions - and therefore austria and the alpine area - a consensus will be reached between all the european institutions, the commission, the council and the european parliament.
the conservation and sustainable management of resources is of great importance to many regions of europe.
the protection of the mountain areas, forests, water, ecological balance and biodiversity must be addressed in a european overall approach.
the ecological and socioeconomic consequences of migration and depopulation must be prevented.
sustainable farming by the farmers not only provides high quality food, but also represents a great service to all people.
as in the first reading and as in the discussions and votes in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, my group supports the rapporteur in his line.
the most controversial points, namely the environmental noise at airports and also at military airports, are not on the table in this reading.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted.
there may be different ratios of majorities, but in the work of the economic and monetary committee there is - since i have been following it - a very objective, very oriented towards the objectives of the common economic and monetary policy climate between the groups, so that i cannot agree with the assumption that has been made here and would also like to reject it.
but we shouldn't waste any time.
i think what has now characterized all the speeches in this debate is the conviction that investment in health is very sensible and an important way to achieve sustainable development and poverty reduction, both objectives of european development policy.
the single economic and monetary union will be completed on 1 january 2002. the obligation and need for each member state to consolidate its public finances in a sustainable manner remains unavoidable.
we are therefore all the more concerned that today, after the collapse of the soviet union, we find not a country in prosperity, in a state of recovery, but a country in a politically unpleasant situation, but one marked above all by hunger and environmental disasters.
the intensive farming of cotton has certainly contributed to this environmental disaster.
but this also means that we must work together to ensure that the economic conditions for our small and medium-sized enterprises are improved in a sustainable way.
countries that fail to protect their own taxpayers' money from fraud, corruption and waste will also be unable to protect eu funds effectively.
it is no secret that there are doubts as to whether the european rapid response force of 60 000 men will be formed by the scheduled date of 2003. the european union needs a boost in energy, not only to make its citizens more attached to it, but above all to fulfil its responsibilities in europe itself and as a partner of the united states.
we need transport that links the regions of europe, but also transport that respects the environment.
i support the commission's approach, which also sees the question of tunnel safety in the overall context of transport policy, but also of environmental policy.
but the people of the alpine regions also have a right to a healthy environment.
but in reality it is high time, particularly in the alps and the pyrenees, that special attention was paid to the environmental situation.
mr maat, your report is an important instrument for thinking globally and acting more locally in agricultural and environmental policy.
let us be clear: consensus on all points concerning the quality of transport for consumers, consensus also where high safety, social and environmental standards are required.
the safety of nuclear installations is a european problem and above all an environmental issue.
the green paper on the security of energy supply is generally to be welcomed.
it is therefore more sensible to invest in safe renewable energy sources than in nuclear fusion, which can produce results in 100 years at best.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water supply is not affected by the pollution of the environment.
by 2010, at the latest, member states shall ensure that water-pricing policies provide appropriate incentives for users to use water resources efficiently, taking into account the social, environmental and economic impacts of cost recovery and the geographical and climatic characteristics of the region concerned.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy.
i personally say very clearly no to the liberalization of water supply and waste water, but i say yes to the fact that each country can use its water as its people wish.
it is the one which condemns a particular member state, so to speak, for a project which is really a purely national project, where the corresponding environmental impact assessment has not yet been carried out and where, if european union funds are to be given, the laws of the european union must of course be observed.
i believe that more research into non-nuclear energy sources is essential.
what latin america needs, however, is not just free trade agreements but strategies to strengthen a climate favourable to investment, which can only be achieved with political stability and an end to capital flight.
- mr president, i see the expiry of the euratom treaty as an opportunity for europe to say goodbye to the use of nuclear energy.
the vote on the euratom programme today, however, decided to continue funding nuclear energy research.
research must be directed towards non-nuclear energy sources, especially renewable energy sources, in order to contribute to the gradual phase-out of nuclear energy in europe.
the cardiff process is crucial for sustainable development.
the european parliament, and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, has already done a very good job of preparing for this, and i believe that transparency and, of course, dialogue are a matter of course in this house.
i would like to say, however, that my group would be very happy if there were genuine self-regulation of the banks, which is sustainable, comprehensive and credible.
if there is a credible and sustainable self-regulation, we could imagine being against the regulation at the next reading, and it would enable the commission not to implement its proposal for a regulation.
- mr president, i very much welcome the presentation of the commission's green paper on a strategy for the security of energy supplies.
i am deeply sorry to say that renewable energy sources continue to receive too little attention.
the kyoto target will only be achieved if we give priority to this energy.
i am therefore very disappointed by the vote on the chichester report, as it still favours nuclear energy.
i would remind you of the single european act, the delors 1 package, maastricht with the delors 2 pact, the report on economic and monetary union, the white paper on completing the internal market, the white paper on growth, competition and employment, the vision of the social dialogue and a social chapter in the treaty, the white papers on environmental policy and the role of parliament, all the major drafts of the commission, which was the pioneer in the run-up to the intergovernmental conferences.
the vice-president could tell you a lot about this, and in particular in the area of the environment and transport there are very few suggestions and indications as to how to implement the so-called sustainability.
many issues concerning developing countries, the environment, social matters and animal welfare were discussed, and i believe that there is an effort to reach a consensus here as well.