i note that the complaints about the lack of resources are also being fed from the educational field, because we not only want our children to learn well in school, we also want that school to be well equipped, to be a safe environment, in other words, to have the infrastructure up to par.
there was apparently a certain amount of waste at the beginning of the high representative's term.
it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid in its approach to the problem of the problem of the environment.
a few days later, on 5 may, i and 11 colleagues sent a letter to mr solana, then secretary-general of nato, because we were certain that this type of weapon was being used, asking him to put an end to its use, since it was a weapon that could subsequently cause health problems for the population, the military, not to mention irreversible contamination of the environment.
nato has provided a trickle of information; i can only take this as proof of the fact that the un environment programme working group found at the end of 1999 that it did not have sufficient information to assess the state of depleted uranium contamination in kosovo.
there is chemical pollution, there is a whole range of environmental damage, there are living conditions.
it's a waste product of the nuclear industry.
and i would point out that we have a european directive, which dates from 1996, and which should be transposed by the member states, which provides that from a concentration of 10 000 becquerels per kilo, such waste must be confined.
so it is completely absurd to use such a munition to spread it into the environment, to create insoluble particles that end up in the respiratory tract and in the digestive tract, to claim that we have to prove that there is a problem.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
the people concerned are rightly interested, including in the conditions which must be met for the social, economic and environmental reconstruction of the affected regions.
in any case, we must insist that whoever wins the peace negotiations, the new government must continue with renewed energy and intensify them as much as possible.
when voting on the excellent report by mrs muller, which we also want to congratulate, the committee on the environment included in the definition of food supplements not only vitamins and minerals but also other substances listed in the annexes.
first, sustainable development: it is important that the commission recognises that the lisbon process lacks an environmental dimension.
to take a concrete example, it is not enough to say, in the field of energy and transport, that liberalisation reduces prices and therefore offers better access for consumers and businesses; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
these are a series of suggestions, commissioner, which i would like to see taken into account in the commission's future reports, particularly with regard to integration, sustainable development and the knowledge society.
the universal service must be defined in relation to the new technological environment.
this policy is contrary to the interests of consumers, the environment, high-quality production and the third world.
i think the directive's objective of drastically reducing air pollution is very good.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there is a great potential for improving energy efficiency in the european union, in all sectors of the economy and also among private users.
it is the task of the european commission to make proposals to improve building regulations, to promote the energy efficiency of electrical equipment, including the setting of standards for standby function, and last but not least, to propose measures to achieve a community policy for a sustainable transport system.
the energy generated would already be sufficient to supply electricity for the hundreds of computers in the european parliament.
energy efficiency is not just a matter of installing more efficient technologies.
instead of blindly focusing on raising taxes or introducing a co2 tax, the member states should instead focus on creating incentives for investment in energy efficiency, for example by reducing vat rates on energy-saving equipment and services, introducing a real estate tax reduction for buildings that meet high energy efficiency standards and granting special tax benefits for cogeneration in particular.
such measures are a major incentive to promote energy efficiency, and i think we should insist that this be made a real thing.
in this respect, we also support the idea of environmental indicators and regret that we have to wait until the barcelona european council in 2002 to have a truly integrated strategy.
we therefore wish you success with your communication on sustainable development, but we would like things to move faster.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
it is about the destruction of a parent's life, of children and of an environment.
i think that in the face of such a crushing unilateral position, distorting the political climate - it is the right thing to say - between europe and the united states, the european institutions must respond not by a verbal escalation but by a strong political reaction.
(applause) i would like to thank
the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs is also proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think there are positive elements in the statements by the president of the council and the president of the commission, particularly when mr persson spoke firmly about the position of the united states on the kyoto protocol and when mr prodi recalled the real issue of the lisbon process, namely an integrated strategy for the economic, social and environmental sectors.
it is based on a finding, mr persson and mr prodi: the european economy is indeed competitive, but it is neither sustainable nor sufficiently solidary at the moment.
this is not an a priori statement: many indicators are in the red, whether in the field of sustainable development, transport, energy - not to mention the common agricultural policy - or in the social sector, where the majority of new jobs created are precarious and where the share of wages in value added is insufficient.
the last report of the european environment agency is sufficient in this respect.
we must therefore change the direction of development, so that it is more sustainable and more inclusive.
mr solbes, important public investments are needed to achieve the lisbon objectives, particularly in education and training, but also in transport and the rational use of energy, for example.
i think it would be more reasonable for the european union to legislate and impose social and environmental obligations on companies.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression that those who in the debate are very keen to stress that stockholm was a lukewarm summit with a lot of rhetoric and few results would very much like us to forget that in stockholm a number of essential steps were taken to re-balance the european policy we are pursuing in social and ecological terms.
on the other hand, rail, inland waterway and combined transport should be compensated for the uncovered costs of competing road transport in order to allow specific concerns such as environmental friendliness and regional potential to be taken into account in transport policy.
an approach which is aimed solely at avoiding possible distortions of competition and which does not address environmental, social and regional aspects is not acceptable.
- madam president, in this house it is customary to congratulate rapporteurs at length and i often think that this is a bit of a waste of time when one has so few seconds at one's disposal.
because if we only focus on infrastructure and not on the right way to use it, if we do not ensure that teaching materials are user-friendly in the educational environment and if we do not actually make them available and keep them up to date every day, then it is all for nothing.
the most important of these - he himself has mentioned it - is the obligation to collect all electrical and electronic equipment and to set higher and more stringent collection targets for 2006. the essential objective of this directive is set out in article 1. first prevention, then reuse, then recycling and finally energy recovery.
the rapporteur has also referred to a number of cases of energy recovery rather than recycling.
the best waste prevention, my fellow citizens, is to change the ecodesign of these products.
the reuse of whole appliances is also important, not only from an environmental point of view, but also from a social point of view.
it is also clear that this directive must provide guarantees that waste is not exported to third countries except for reuse, and only if it can be guaranteed that the same high objectives and standards are respected in those third countries.
in fact, the directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment is part of the preventive objective set out in article 1 of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
it's become a debate between believers, like me, who are convinced of the environmental and health impacts, and the non-believers.
i therefore think that the committee on the environment has come to a good compromise, thanks to the constructive stubbornness of our rapporteur and a few other people.
i have tabled an amendment on reuse which i think is a great thing, except when there are new products which are more positive in terms of the environmental balance.
mr president, i should like to stress four amendments to the original proposal submitted by the european parliament, with the support of both the legal affairs committee, which was unanimous, and the environment committee.
a second amendment, amendment no 8, calls on the commission to promote the synchronisation of research and conclusions drawn from the two major pollution abatement mechanisms already in place.
finally, the third amendment, amendment no 11, expresses the wish that the commission, while referring primarily to the commps procedure, should not exclude the use of techniques for the assessment of the harmfulness of certain substances already developed or even used in other pollution control measures.
for example, mechanisms which have proved successful in systems developed for air pollution must be able to be used or transferred to water pollution.
one of the reasons for europe's overall exemplary development, for the balanced nature of this development and for the quality of culture which has always accompanied the economic development of our continent is precisely that europe has always had inexhaustible resources, because they are infinitely renewable, of the precious liquid to which we owe our lives.
both the quality and quantity of water are now being threatened by the senseless and rampant pollution that has been practically unchecked over the past few centuries.
- mr president, the conciliation process has resulted in the report making a number of adjustments which can be seen as positive, such as the reduction of the permitted tar content and the setting of ceilings for nicotine and carbon monoxide content.
one of the reasons for europe's overall exemplary development, for the balanced nature of this development and for the quality of culture which has always accompanied the economic development of our continent, is precisely that europe has always had inexhaustible resources, because they are infinitely renewable, of the precious liquid to which we owe our lives.
both the quality and quantity of water are now being threatened by the senseless, rampant and virtually uncontrolled pollution of recent centuries.
this dangerous waste is taking place at a time when the world's growing population is making it difficult to provide enough water for the six billion people who live on earth today and, even more so, for the eight billion who could coexist in thirty years' time, that is, in just one more generation.
for all these reasons, systems need to be made sustainable in order to cope with common challenges and cross-border complexities.
as you know, we have made an effort to focus the joint research centre on the tasks for which it is best suited - that is to say, tasks of joint control, joint testing and scientific expertise in environmental problems, health, nuclear energy in certain respects, and security in relation to the information society.
for example, the spread of seemingly unexplained diseases in humans has explainable causes, such as depleted uranium and immune system diseases that could be caused by environmental agents.
- mr president, commissioner, the paradox of the european union is that, on the one hand, its environmental legislation has played a pioneering role for many countries in the union, including my own, and will certainly play a pioneering role for the candidate countries.
the other part of the paradox is that many of the sectoral policies of the european union are in fact contrary to the criteria of sustainable development, including in particular the agricultural policy, but more generally also the emphasis on economic growth, without sufficient consideration for sustainable development, as has just been pointed out - i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to this - in a recent oecd report which is much more critical than usual of commission texts.
secondly, the environment council, which is to meet one week before gothenburg, must take account of the european parliament's requests for the sixth framework programme.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in line with the principles of the treaty of rome.
environmental and social criteria are needed in public procurement; on the question of indicators, it is not acceptable that the shortlist of indicators does not currently contain any environmental criteria.
national accounts incorporating environmental data should also be considered.
and we will be attentive, during the belgian presidency, to the barcelona european council being the first european council to really integrate environmental, social and economic strategy.
the report therefore misses the point and, in particular, the question of how the environment can be better protected than it has been so far.
the report was unanimously approved by the committee on the environment, and i congratulate the rapporteur on his convincing distinction between the main and the secondary aspects.
- mr president, if the belgian dioxin crisis, the bse crisis and the foot-and-mouth disease epidemic have taught us anything, it is that there is a need for strict regulation of the trade, storage and processing of animal waste.
each year, some 16 million tons of animal waste must be disposed of.
the proposal for a regulation we are discussing today sets out how animal waste should be handled in future and how to prevent unwanted products from entering the food chain.
it brings order to the sector, creating clearly separated waste streams that must not be mixed under any circumstances.
if it turns out that the three-categorization, the mandatory separation of waste streams and the prevention of cannibalism in the sector are not or are not sufficiently respected and that the fraud is too great or remains too great, then we can assume that the political preconditions for allowing the use of meat and bone meal in pig and poultry feed have not been met.
the separate treatment of by-products, greases and household waste is likely to consolidate the safety objective sought.
i hope that, after the stockholm summit, which reaffirmed full employment as a european priority, the gothenburg summit will also make a very important contribution to the strategy for sustainable development in the final analysis.
environmental risks should not be the only reason for action, but - as other members have also pointed out - risks to people, crew and passengers, among others, are also reasons for action.
competition between airports on the backs of the local population and the environment is not acceptable.
i have a question about air pollution.
what does the agreement say about air pollution?
- president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs rothe for the excellent work she has done, which has laid the foundations for the first part: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in view of the many unknown factors in the development of renewable energy, it seems to me therefore particularly sensible to set indicative targets on the one hand, but at the same time to allow the commission to make proposals with binding targets to the council and parliament if the results prove to be insufficient.
the second point concerns the clear separation of waste from separate collection from waste from non-separated collection.
of course, i can only consider the incineration of separate waste and more specifically the biodegradable fraction of industrial and domestic waste as a renewable energy source.
opponents wrongly argue that burning household waste displaces the so-called true "renewables" such as wind and solar energy, increases co2 emissions and undermines waste reduction and recycling policies.
it is therefore a matter of good judgment that the common position, in its definition of what should be considered as renewable energy and what should not, leaves room for different forms of renewable energy sources and, more specifically, for the incineration of separated waste.
it is right that the european union should exert more influence on global developments in the monetary, economic, social, environmental and commercial fields, but also and above all in the field of international politics.
i would ask you, please, not to forget the healthy environment and the quality of life in this vision of the future of europe.
and i believe that your programme guarantees a social, sustainable and politically stronger europe.
the commission must therefore make a proposal on emissions trading as soon as possible and under your presidency we must act on that proposal as soon as possible so that we can implement kyoto in an economically viable way.
and if you do these things, security, competition policy, sme policy, the environment, if you finish a number of decisions there, you increase the sensitivity of europe to the people and then at the end of the year we can say, as in the tv commercial: "a little pride can't hurt".
if the protocol is approved with unlimited trade in hot air or unlimited use of coal seams, the effect on the climate will be limited.
what form will we take to trade our emissions?
it is also clear that the lucrative trade in uranium and nuclear waste benefits almost exclusively western interests.
and for sale, western nuclear waste is dumped in the same region.
the radioactive waste from the 1960s and 1970s still poses an undeniable and direct threat to the population.
the end of the cold war and the arms race mean that the demand for an end to the trade in uranium and nuclear waste is not an exaggeration but a very reasonable demand, a demand which is a matter of course for the values which europe has set itself.
it can be that of a strengthened free trade area, or it can be that of a supranational union in which the objectives of sustainable development and social solidarity would be at the heart of the objectives of a reformed policy.
as far as penta is concerned, first of all, and its harmful effects on our environment and our health, the facts are clear, very clear.
two opinions of the scientific committee on toxicity and ecotoxicity and the environment, dated february and june 2000, highlight the potential harm caused by penta, the release of this substance into the environment as a persistent and bioaccumulative substance.
so risk to the environment, risk to human health.
and it is just as logical, i would say, that our committee on the environment has voted to confirm this ban.
the committee on the environment, i should like to say, does not share this view.
i would also say that the initial conclusions of the risk assessment study which is currently under way, and which i have been able to read, are negative and would prove the harmfulness of this product to both the environment and public health, which are being dealt with by the british and french experts respectively, whom i have consulted at length on this subject.
in view of these various factors, mr president, the committee on the environment has tabled an amendment to extend the ban on the marketing of octar-bromodiphenyl ether to include it, and this in strict compliance with the precautionary principle.
i should like to remind you that caution is not to wait for the absolute evidence, that is to say the final result of the evaluation study, when there is sufficient evidence that a substance could have harmful consequences for health and the environment.
for reasons of consistency, the committee on the environment has extended the scope of the text to all polybrominated diphenyl ethers.
everyone has said that this is a very difficult dossier because it involves various interests with large lobbies, but also fire safety, and the protection and future of the environment in the long term.
the previous speakers have clearly demonstrated the problems this poses for the environment and for public health.
since these substances are known to be dangerous to the environment, waiting for the conclusions of this slow risk analysis would unnecessarily delay the improvement of the protection of man and the environment.
this dossier shows once again that the current chemical policy with a dust-by-dust analysis takes years and that the government is in a very weak position to protect people and the environment.
the view of the committee on the environment and consumer protection is certainly compatible with this objective, but it also means ensuring that quality requirements are not relaxed in the name of simplification, and above all that good consumer information is not compromised.
all the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, many of which were tabled by the rapporteur, are in this direction.
the committee on the environment proposes not to accept this proposal, since filtered honey is in fact honey whose floral origin can no longer be controlled.
so there is an amendment from the committee on the environment to that effect.
i have personally reintroduced an amendment on jams which was not accepted by the committee on the environment, but which i support.
as the epp group i can say that we are in line with the report as it has come out of the vote in the committee on the environment.
our position on this is somewhat different from the report, but that was also clear in the committee on the environment.
this is a question that arises from the fact that at a seminar held in france in 1999, the european union's network for respect for environmental rights had questioned the origins of a major ammonia leak at the grande paroisse plant, classified as seveso ii, and had pointed out the defects in design and equipment reliability.
i am thinking, for example, of the energy risks posed by nuclear power stations, most of which are very vulnerable to action of the kind that has been taken in the united states.
mr president, on behalf of my group i would like to thank mr goebbels for all the energy and intellectual investment he has put into his report.
in the face of economic downturn, member states must be able to demonstrate that the lisbon objectives are not for times of economic prosperity but must be maintained, namely sustainable growth, full employment and quality jobs.
we all know that military action alone will not bring a lasting solution in that area, and that we will have to invest in democratic institutions, in civil society, in socioeconomic and environmental reforms, in the fight against drugs, in the fight against poverty and in proper education.
but we make a solemn appeal to the council: 'do not let these funds go to waste, create the legal basis which will make europol fully operational and eurojust fully developed'.
so it is very positive that there is a strengthening of joint efforts, but one may wonder why the important problem of industrial activities is not mentioned at all, particularly in relation to nuclear power stations and reprocessing centres, where large quantities of radioactive and fissile substances are stored which are likely, in the event of a deliberate or unintentional plane crash, to lead to an ecological and social catastrophe.
in this report and in this resolution we have started from a twofold observation: firstly, in the developing countries, the respective contribution of coastal communities to food security and employment is a driving force for the sustainable development of these regions and the reduction of poverty.
we just need the resources and the environment to be creative again.
we also think that it is necessary to insist that much more thorough evaluation work be carried out on the liberalization of the sectors, taking into account the interests of consumers and workers as well as the compatibility of the market trends with the objectives of sustainable development - i am thinking, for example, of the water sector - and this not only from a technical point of view, but also through a dialogue with all the actors concerned.
finally, the committee on economic and monetary affairs supports the idea that the objectives of sustainable transport should be taken into account in management contracts and that the competent authorities should take them into account, particularly as regards interconnection and interoperability between bus transport, which is the subject of our discussion, and other modes of transport.
the commission proposal is probably the focus of interest because we are dealing with employment for some, particularly mobility, safety, environmental protection and economic development, and the opinions which are still being hotly debated today have also been the basis of almost 500 amendments.
but if, as happens after the directive and after the amendment by my proposal, we establish some requirements, if we impose some conditions on the social and economic level, if we take into account the environment and the provision of public services, we have more guarantees than we simply give to the treaty, because i think that an option is: we either provide a specific rule for ports in a directive, or we report to the treaty and we simply follow the general rules laid down in the treaty, including those for pilot services, which provide for freedom of movement for the provision of services.
it is clear that they do not lack the financial resources necessary to organise major campaigns and to paint a large majority of this parliament as a band of fundamentalists on ecological issues.
i think, however, that the result obtained by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy was balanced, so that it deserves our full support tomorrow.
- mr president, airlines, the aircraft industry and tourism are obviously the first and most visible victims of 9/11, but let us not forget that, outside tourism, many small and mediumsized enterprises and their employees in the supply and geographical environment of airports will also experience the drama firsthand.
we are waiting for a forward-looking vision of economic development, a human, intelligent project that allows for sustainable development.
- the vote in the committee on the environment on this report is a clear message to industry and national authorities for a flawless control of chemical substances, which must be accompanied by the elimination of toxic and harmful substances for health and the environment.
when we came out of the committee on the environment at second reading, we saw that we had 28 amendments, 28 amendments which were sometimes difficult to get through to the council.
the new round will include negotiations on public procurement, competition, investment, the relationship between international environmental agreements and wto rules.
at a time when democratic elections should be prepared, mugabe has found no better way than to encourage a climate of terror in his country and to set up checkpoints everywhere, in the countryside and in the cities.
ten years later, we have to admit - and one only has to read the commission's texts again to see for oneself - that we, the rich, industrialized countries, have not succeeded in changing our production and consumption patterns to make them sustainable for the planet.
i think that in any case we cannot rejoice in johannesburg over the concrete results we have achieved in the fight against the greenhouse effect, nor in the protection of biodiversity.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.