the sustainability of services should also be given greater consideration.
i would also like to point out that something has to change in the member states, because the ministers for the environment are sometimes too cowardly to promote in their countries the ideas they decide to promote here, if this could lead to conflicts.
because it is only from this environment that they draw their strength for their important tasks for society.
– madam president, before i turn to the specific question of depleted uranium, let me first put the issue in context by saying a word about the environmental situation in the balkans and what the european commission has been doing to tackle it.
nearly a decade of regional conflicts, combined with weak institutions, old-fashioned polluting industry and a legacy of years of unchecked pollution, have left the environment of the balkan region in a state of serious neglect.
in june 1999, a report conducted for the commission by the regional environment centre in budapest gave a preliminary assessment of the environmental effects of the conflict in the balkan region.
in october 1999, the united nations balkans task force then provided its assessment of the environmental damage arising as a result of the kosovo conflict.
in our efforts to tackle the health and environmental situation in the balkans, the commission has established a twin-track approach.
our longer-term assistance is designed to embed a process of sustainable environmental protection in the countries in the region, all of which are potential candidate members of the union.
in the framework of the stability pact, the commission has been the driving force in the development of the regional environmental reconstruction programme.
this provides a framework in which environmental actions can be pursued at regional level in the balkans.
to help launch the regional environmental reconstruction programme the commission is currently funding actions to the value of eur 5m.
through these actions we have targeted institution building, participation in the activities of the european environment agency in the region and two environmental hotspots in albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
our contribution reflects the balance between setting the basis for long-term environmental protection and urgent remedial action.
however, there is currently no unanimously held scientific opinion on the health and environmental effects of depleted uranium.
at the time that the un balkans task force provided its original assessment of the environmental damage arising as a result of the kosovo conflict, it had not received any official document confirming whether or not depleted uranium had been used during the conflict.
we will also decide whether it is appropriate to adapt existing assistance programmes within the longer term with the aim of ensuring the sustainable development of the region.
the twin-track approach i have set out underlines the value added of the community contribution to addressing the health and environmental situation in the balkan region.
the commission confirms its commitment to strengthening our medium and long-term support to improve the environmental and human health situation in the balkan region.
(applause)
i have to say, madam president, the public is concerned because there is evidence of a link between this depleted uranium in the munitions and the effects on health and the environment.
we must determine whether there are any health and environmental effects, and then either give warning or permanently withdraw such weapons from circulation.
we have said many times in the past that if it is necessary to use weapons - and we have always agreed on this - it must be done with the least possible interference, with the least possible damage to the environment and to the health of the survivors.
that is why we have always condemned and denounced chemical weapons in the past, for example, and have always agreed that these weapons should not be used because they are destroying and damaging the environment and human health far beyond the present day.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the waste and faecalisation of our food is the logical consequence of a deranged agricultural policy which must certainly be stopped at this point.
in welcoming your incoming presidency, mr persson, i welcome the choice made by sweden to adopt a particularly powerful slogan, based on the letter e. the letter e stands first and foremost for 'europe', which is our common objective and to which sweden will devote its best efforts over the next six months to make progress, particularly in the fields of enlargement, employment, the environment.
the third e is for environment, that is, environment.
our fellow citizens are concerned about environmental and consumer protection issues, including - and this is particularly important these days - food safety.
we have a responsibility to future generations to ensure the sustainable development of our societies and to make our economies compatible, in the long term, with the balances of the planet.
i look forward to working with the swedish presidency to provide the european union with an effective and coherent strategy for sustainable development.
in this context, the union must remain committed to taking a leading role on climate change issues.
in this respect, the letter e also indicates a more conscious commitment to energy and a deep reflection on all aspects related to the supply, use, conservation and environmental compatibility of energy sources.
i would like to thank the presidency of the council for its positive attitude to the stockholm summit and its desire to achieve economic sustainability in the interests of full employment, economic reform, innovation and the future viability of the european union.
we all know that a whole range of regulatory measures are needed to make intermodal transport truly sustainable.
a woman must always prove herself extra, not only the skill is decisive, but the whole living environment.
i am the vice-president of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and i can tell you that if colleagues are not present, i am happy to take over their entire speaking time and comment on the excellent deprez report.
on the one hand, they are geostrategic interests and energy and oil interests, and on the other hand, they are the brutal war of extermination currently being waged against the chechen people.
we want to modernise the railway sector by means of competition so that ultimately more goods are moved from the road to the railway, because for environmental reasons it is extremely important to move goods down the road and up the railway over long distances.
competition is then defined differently as a competition for the lowest cost and highest profit, but as a pursuit of sustainability, social competence, user-friendliness, quality and service.
if european railways can increase their competitiveness in relation to other modes of transport, especially road transport, this will also have a positive impact on the environment and will also help to solve the serious problems in road transport.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
i believe that energy labelling is an important market-economy tool for promoting energy-efficient office equipment.
the energy star label is intended to promote energy-saving standby devices.
the potential for saving energy in these appliances cannot be underestimated and with the label we are giving a real impetus to the european union to use energy more efficiently.
saving energy also means reducing co2 emissions, as agreed in the climate agreement.
in the context of the establishment of an energy star office of the european union, i believe it is urgent that national experts in energy policy should be involved in addition to interested actors, so that national interests can be clearly represented.
the energy star bureau is required to produce an annual report on the market penetration of products bearing the energy star logo.
this is the only way to ensure that the label is awarded only to appliances with significantly higher energy efficiency than the market average.
in this context, i would ask you to support my opinion, which is attached to this report and which was adopted in its entirety by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
i would like to join in the thanks to the rapporteur, mrs mcnally, but also to the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, mrs emilia müller.
energy saving and the reduction of greenhouse gases such as co2 are important objectives of the european union.
there are technical problems, but you can solve those problems without using energy.
so it's good that we're here discussing the energy star and rewarding devices that take advantage of these new technological possibilities and are very efficient.
i asked him, "what do you think of the energy star?"
now we've solved all the technical problems, but nobody cares whether a computer has an energy star or not.
i think we must also think about this - it is also in mrs mcnally's report - and then we will have a comprehensive approach to energy efficiency in this area.
we are in danger of destroying hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe, and therefore the commission should consider whether we cannot, as in france, distribute the financial burden equally and in solidarity among all, by means of a levy, a meat tax or an increase in the value added tax on agricultural products, so that the problem of waste disposal can be solved in a reasonable way.
europe is doing something about safety at sea and pollution prevention.
i have therefore decided to complete the internal reform quickly, in full compliance with all our commitments and in a climate of concertation and transparency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must find a sustainable balance between our policies in order to preserve, also for future generations, all the vital resources of europe, our economic heritage but also our social capital and our environment.
to achieve this balance in the long term, a sustainable development strategy is required.
we aim to translate the concept of sustainable development, which is itself rather abstract, into concrete and understandable terms and into concrete, visible initiatives that affect the productive side and the habits of citizens.
it will therefore be a strategy geared to innovation and to increased investment in this direction, also exploiting the possibilities offered by frontier technologies: a strategy to set prices at a level that better reflects the costs of environmental degradation.
and then: what kind of environment are we leaving for future generations?
i fully support michel barnier when he says, as he did before your committee on constitutional affairs, that we are going to have to draw up a coherent and sustainable plan for our enlarged union.
i shall not comment on the many proposals which have been put forward in my area of work, that is to say in the field of environmental policy and consumer protection.
i believe that the family environment must also be included in the definition.
the new rules have created a high level of protection of health, consumers and the environment in europe.
close monitoring for potential environmental hazards is required.
the epp group is in favour of green biotechnology, if it ensures that rules are respected to protect the environment and human health.
the artificial separation of human embryo clones for stem cell research from so-called reproductive cloning will not be sustainable in the long term.
there is a realistic chance that we can make great strides in the field of renewable raw materials through genetically modified crops.
the commission's seven-point plan is a kind of emergency package to prevent overproduction in the coming years by taking another step towards extensive production, towards sustainability and towards organic farming.
commissioner, if the greens have finally got their laurels, is it not right to take the much simpler route of a climate-related greenland premium, and forget everything else, in the whole complex structure of the premium?
it is therefore right and necessary that we ensure that motorised two- and three-wheelers have the same level of emissions as cars.
the european parliament has made exemplary and very successful legislation reducing emissions from cars with euro iii and euro iv light and heavy duty vehicles, so that air quality in europe's cities and sensitive areas can be improved.
it is not for nothing that there is a list of registration figures which say that over 80 vehicles already comply with the values for 2003. we do not want to tinker with this, we want a second binding stage for 2006, which will bring the level of motorised two-wheelers to the level of euro iii cars in 2000. but we want to start in 2003 with what we have already introduced in the case of cars and light and heavy goods vehicles, namely a focus on the durability of the components which are relevant to emissions.
that is why we want to introduce in 2003 a sustainability approach for motorised two-wheelers and, if there is a serious suspicion that certain types are not complying with these emission limit values in the long term, to also create the possibility for the authorities to verify this in the context of a field monitoring, an in-use compliance.
i believe that if we accept the proposals of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and enter into the negotiation process with the council, then in the future motorcyclists will be able to exercise their responsibility, their freedom, and that should be our common objective.
the results of these measures will be thoroughly examined and evaluated: re-entry into working life, activities to improve equal opportunities, changes in exclusion, and the targeted creation of a favourable environment for the creation of new small and medium-sized enterprises.
we have had positive experiences in the aviation, telecommunications and energy sectors, and there are other markets in the pipeline, such as transport, gas, postal services and finance.
i believe that the european patent is an important step along this road and we must go even faster in liberalizing not only telecommunications but also energy and postal services if we are to get closer to these objectives.
we therefore agreed to this report and we hope that this will increase emas registrations, especially in germany, where emas registration is very widespread, and we hope that this will give companies incentives to actually improve their environmental instruments and that this will also create an incentive to do the best for the environment.
the services sector and direct investment in particular will be the subject of particular attention in the future, since mexico cannot be considered as an extension of the workbench; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently introduced a new approach to the environment.
this is a new risk for the household and for the environment, because we must not forget that cotton is a very intensive crop, requiring a high level of fertiliser and pesticides.
this means that the incentives to produce are not decreasing but increasing, and that environmental requirements are also being eroded.
this is particularly true of environmental measures.
as in other sectors, they have to use the resources provided for in the market organization and environmental aid to cover their operating costs.
as regards the environment, amendments nos 6, 15 and 20 call for a wide range of possibilities for member states to amend the rules of the common organization of the market not only for environmental reasons but also and above all for economic and social reasons.
this is unacceptable because it completely undermines the environmental regulations.
i very much regret that the commission cannot accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection in this case, but i believe i have explained the reasons in detail.
this is a systematic genocide of the chechen people for energy and geostrategic interests.
the intensification of production leads to environmental pollution and the marginalisation of less productive sites.
let us use it to reform the way we do things, with the following objectives: to maintain a sufficient number of farmers to preserve the environment and the cultural landscape; recognition of two important functions of farmers, namely the production of high quality food and the environmental performance related to rural development.
the aim is to develop the common agricultural policy, the european model of consumer protection and agriculture for the future, also in the light of enlargement to the east and the next round of world trade, also on the basis of what the member states have committed to internationally in the context of agenda 21, conservation of resources, sustainability, but also in the balance between the use of nature on the one hand and the application of technology and economics on the other.
there must be no actionism, no frantic actions at the moment, but there can be no 'this way' either, but you must discuss with us the proposals that ensure sustainable development.
firstly, is it not reasonable to support the state controls by introducing a requirement for companies to provide evidence of their activities in the waste sector?
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
i therefore expressly oppose this proposal, which is also contained in amendment no 33 by the committee on industry, trade, research and energy and which was adopted by a large majority in the committee at that time.
the interesting discussions with the various representatives of large and small companies throughout europe were also very interesting for me personally and i think that although not everyone will be satisfied, we are on the right track to become more sustainable.
i would like to emphasize once again that it is not the task of the european union - as my friend konstantinos hatzidakis, the rapporteur, has said - to dictate to individual member states which sources of primary energy they should use.
but if the majority of member states are still committed to nuclear energy today, there must be safe and appropriate procedures for this too.
it is not disputed that nuclear energy and the transport of nuclear waste are the responsibility of the member states.
that is why we should concentrate on this communication, namely that the transport of nuclear waste will be as safe as possible in the near future.
if we succeed in doing what the german government is doing, namely deciding to abandon nuclear energy and implementing it, then in a few years we may both have achieved our goal.
the whole range of issues of environmental protection, health policy, competition, minimum social standards and so on are not being discussed today.
in the area of intellectual property, we want to ensure that biodiversity is respected and that, in the case of plant-based inventions, there is a fair sharing of the economic benefits between the donor country and the companies wishing to market the material.
it is the european parliament's task to instill confidence in the positive sustainability of this process.
our aim must be to communicate to people - in a credible, informed and understandable way - that this process we are working for has the vision of achieving four goals in sustainable development: sustainable economic growth for all, protection of our environment, respect for appropriate social standards and preservation of cultural diversity.
so i have a few questions: does this document represent a departure from the european union's strategy, which has been to have and to have a comprehensive role - for example, in competition, investment, but also in all the soft issues such as social standards, labour standards and progress in environmental matters?
this is necessary to ensure the preservation of small-scale landscapes, rural employment, the protection of the environment and resources, and modulated agricultural programmes, and to protect them from the liberalisation of the world market.
the key to the negotiations is that the actors involved in sustainable agriculture are not pitted against each other, but are harmonized.
the concerns of food security and rural employment, consumer protection and environmental protection, and the conservation of all resources are viewed and weighed by the parties involved in different ways.
these include health, environment and social concerns, and not just three separate issues.
the multifunctionality of agriculture must also be recognized and enforced by the world trade organization, and therefore the promotion of agriculture must also be guided by ecological and social criteria, and i should like to say this explicitly here: this must not be a case of new forms of agricultural protectionism, particularly against developing and emerging countries.
mr daul has pointed this out, but it should be a wake-up call, firstly because many of these critics are not concerned with the welfare of consumers but with their own profits, secondly because the production of a basic foodstuff below european environmental and social standards has a justified price, and thirdly because the price of sugar we have in europe, in terms of the purchasing power of consumers, is probably one of the lowest in the world.
i mean, in the ecological realm, there's a lot that could be done with sugar.
now you've given it away and it's all going to waste.
i am therefore grateful to you, mr vitorino, for taking up all these problems with the energy of tampere.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has thankfully corrected this, and i hope that the house will follow the opinion of the committee on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the commission has also been very active in the field of the environment, and has been very active in the field of the environment.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0068/2001) by mrs oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from large combustion plants [11070/1/2000 - c5-0562/2000 - 1998/0225 (cod)).
these european rules of the game are important for the simple reason that we have a liberalised electricity market in the european community and, of course, the standards for air pollution in this liberalised market should be comparable throughout europe.
the commission has therefore done the right thing by focusing in particular on the old plants, which unfortunately have not been regulated since 1987 and which, if you will, have caused a relatively large amount of pollution throughout europe.
and those who believe - and i say this despite all the anger expressed here - that environmental policy is a national task are mistaken, because the vast majority of the dirt that comes from the power stations ends up with our colleagues in sweden, finland, denmark and norway.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0067/2001) by mrs myller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council (c5-0563/2000 - 1999/0067 (cod)) with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the fixing of national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants.
- the next item is the report (a5-0041/2001) by mrs jackson, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council (c5-0001/2001 - 1998/0358 (cod)) laying down minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states.
- the next item is the report (a5-0054/2001) by mr wijkman, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions - an action plan to improve energy efficiency in the european community (com (2000) 0247 - c5-0567/2000 - 2000/2265 (cos)) i am sure that the heating of the passenger compartment of motor vehicles also plays a key role in this area.
buildings need to be insulated better, the energy system needs to be improved.
thanks to this, we can turn off the lights 45 minutes earlier than planned and have thus achieved a famous energy saving.
we must be able to show our citizens that the eu is a strong force on the important issues: to deal with globalisation, for human rights and democracy, for a common asylum and immigration policy, for jobs and growth across europe, for fighting crime, and for the environment, sustainable development and food security.
this house has so often been at the forefront of the important european debate on openness, the environment, enlargement and the charter of fundamental rights, to name just a few.
i myself noticed this when i was minister for the environment and worked very closely with both the commission and parliament.
secondly, we need a reform that actually makes the union sustainable.
the eu must also develop sustainable and effective partnerships with other key actors.
we are investing a lot of energy in developing the capacity to plan and lead police operations and in common standards for, among other things, equipment and training.
crisis management must therefore include support for everything from justice to waste management.
we will also ensure through our assistance programmes that we take account of indicators of political exclusion, ethnic, social or regional marginalisation, environmental degradation or other factors which can contribute to violent conflict.
we have also to exploit to the full other means such as trade policy instruments and trade and cooperation agreements, or our skills on border-management police training, customs assistance missions – which have been such a success in the balkans – or expertise in migration, social or environmental policy.
conflict prevention today requires not only political instruments but also economic instruments, social measures and environmental measures.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of important decisions, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its future work.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment and sustainable development, which sets out the main priorities for the period 2007-13. the ecofin council has now called for further work on these issues, and i hope, as i said at the outset, that we can reach a comprehensive solution as soon as possible.
these include liberalisation and solidarity, competition and equal opportunities, and growth that respects the environment.
it would completely change our energy economy.
we have followed the path of classical thermodynamics in the energy sector, for example.
irreversible thermodynamics, small changes, may show us a whole new way of doing business with energy.
second, environmental conditions make you sick, and you can't change those conditions with technology, but you can change those conditions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted.
i am particularly pleased that it was commissioners liikanen and busquin who stressed the importance of this technology for economic and scientific sustainability.
i therefore propose, with the support of the committee on the environment, that we develop a symbol and that the commission impose a clear labelling requirement for products with a shelf-life of more than 30 months.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
we should reward this willingness of companies to innovate and protect the environment by continuing to pursue and promote the system of voluntary agreements.
it would not apply equally to all products, nor would it bring any tangible environmental benefits.
however, i think that, unlike you, we should take care to do everything we can to ensure that pvc does not end up in uncontrolled waste disposal because of its dangerous properties.
no other product is produced from chlorine and produces such large quantities of additives that are harmful to the environment and human health.
our job as legislators is to ensure that the environment and health are protected.
the five studies carried out by the commission have shown that there are huge problems, particularly in the incineration of waste, which generates even more hazardous waste.
the impact on jobs, in addition to the ecological and economic dimensions.
the first issue is, of course, how we can take budgetary measures in the face of the crisis of foot-and-mouth disease and bse - and all of these are budgetary measures - so that we have a sustainable agriculture with the best possible consumer protection and so that we can sell the products produced in europe to other parts of the world.
if we look at environmental policy in the enlargement countries alone, it is clear that there is a great need for funds.
the efforts of many colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to bring forward a number of additional concerns, attempts to improve the commission's text, and the honest and hardworking efforts of our rapporteur, mr trakatellis, to take account of all these wishes, have not only given us many amendments but have, in my view, led to a text which is not acceptable in this form as an opinion of the european parliament.
the third point we add is that we want a link between social development, economic development and ecological development, i.e.
no sustainable social cohesion and no sustainable economic growth unless this is also based on an ecologically balanced social development.
some concrete results were achieved: firstly, we are opening up the eib's lending to russia, albeit limited, but it is a breakthrough for environmental efforts.
finally, we also touched on the state of play in the climate negotiations.
(applause from the centre) ) the kyoto negotiations are the instrument we have to deal with the change in the basic conditions of life that the climate represents.
the swedish environment minister is currently in the united states with the commissioner responsible for environmental affairs and will then go on to iran, japan and china to hold talks there too.
we realize that we cannot survive without considering the ecological conditions.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank prime minister persson for the firmness, calmness and energy with which he chaired and organized the stockholm proceedings.
for our part, we have made it clear that we want to contribute to russia's full integration into our community of values; we want to identify the most appropriate instruments of cooperation, not only in the economic, environmental and energy fields but also in defence, security and the safeguarding of democratic rights.
i agree with prime minister persson that there was a climate of legitimate optimism among the heads of state and government in stockholm.
thirdly, we are seriously working towards sustainable development which also includes the environmental dimension.
this is precisely the commitment the commission has made by announcing the presentation of a communication on the quality and sustainability of pensions in the light of demographic change.
they must be deregulated by the end of 2001, and the liberalisation of energy markets will continue on the basis of the proposals we have already put forward, which are extremely clear and precise.
with regard to the demographic challenge, the european council recognised the importance of ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances, social services, health care and pensions.
in any case, the issue of sustainability will have to be addressed in the context of a wider european strategy for sustainable development, which will be one of the main topics of the gothenburg summit in june.
in addition, the commission will in future integrate sustainable development in its annual spring report.
the citizens want a europe that delivers on its promises, and the commission will continue to do so with energy and dedication: but it is up to all of us, all the institutions, especially the european parliament, the member states and the social partners, to ensure that after stockholm our words are translated into action.
you yourself have said critically that we regret that the postal services and the energy markets have not been opened and that no date has been set for this opening.
but there is also a burden-sharing in environmental protection.
the burden sharing also applies to environmental policy.
the liberalisation of energy markets has been blocked by my country and by france.
the theory that it is always better to move freight from road to rail in the interests of environmental protection is not automatically correct.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
but at least, in addition to organic farms, farms participating in agri-environmental programmes, i.e.
farms participating in national environmental programmes approved by the commission under regulation 1257/99, should be taken into account.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the protection of the environment.
but if we are serious about sustainable agriculture, we have to take a step forward.
no one has said that we have been working on this for years - and i have said this myself - and that we are very pleased that commissioner fischler has now made this proposal and that we are going to start using the setaside and the ecological upgrading of the crop rotation, even though we are not going to accept all the proposals.
the key question in this matter is whether there is a problem in replacing the waste of these quantities of animal meal with plant protein and how best to do this.
although cereals are the main source of energy and less of protein, at an average protein content of 10 to 12%, the 5 million tonnes of cereals fed more than last year will also provide about half a million tonnes of raw protein.
the expansion of soybean production in south america and the united states will bring far more soybean waste to the market than the european union can possibly need.
on the ground, and as a practical application of all this, and in accordance with the national strategy document for mexico, which is now being adopted, we are working on an important project for the development of the lacandonia forest in chiapas, and this project has the specific purpose not only of working with the populations concerned, but also of aiming at educating them in the idea of sustainable development, thus combining both environmental sustainability action and social action.
at the same time, we support the transitional government in its efforts to establish an environment of peace and security in the part of the country still marked by conflict and the absence of any administrative structure.
all are called to distance themselves, to condemn these acts and to create a climate of tolerance, to promote it daily, in all media, including in the macedonian parliament and in macedonian society.
the consequences of the accident on eu territory were comparatively minor but nevertheless important efforts continue to be made for monitoring levels of radioactivity in the environment and in foodstuffs: controls on the import of foodstuffs were even recently strengthened.
the european union has provided considerable support to ukraine over the last few years in addressing and overcoming the consequences of the chernobyl accident, which had such devastating effects on the population and the environment.
this included support for short-term measures for nuclear safety improvements as well as longer-term measures to replace unsafe reactors by alternative energy sources.
in the particular case of the candidate countries of central and eastern europe, the phare programme has helped and continues to help improve nuclear safety there as well as to develop economically and environmentally sound energy strategies for the replacement of the less safe nuclear reactors.
important landmarks are: the agreement to close non-upgradeable units in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria; the support that the programme has given to the nuclear regulators; the short-term urgent safety improvements made to some reactors; the design and operational improvements in upgradeable reactors and also considerable assistance to tackle the problems related to radioactive waste and spent fuel.
with regard to russia, we also pursue an active cooperation in spent fuel and radio active waste management in north-west russia.
this poses a major threat to the barents sea and the arctic environment.
the community is not party to the arctic monitoring and assessment programme, but is nevertheless closely involved in the work related to environmental radioactivity in the arctic.
we are committed to continue this policy and hope very much that together we can ensure a secure and safe energy supply consistent with sustainable development and respect for the environment.
we therefore expect - the resolution makes this clear - a lot of changes and changes in the energy system of ukraine.
but we also know that another part of the nuclear power stations can be retrofitted, and now i come to an exciting question to you, commissioner: the commission is negotiating accession on behalf of the european union, also through the chapter 'energy standard security'.
i hope that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the committee on research, technological development and energy will soon receive a clear answer from you on the basis of which safety standards you will negotiate with the applicant countries.
i am convinced that this opportunity has not been sufficiently exploited, that this positive environment has not been sufficiently exploited.
no eu country can do without budgetary discipline, without sustainable debt reduction, without substantial structural reforms, because the objectives are worthwhile - competitiveness and stability!
the commission is empowered to take temporary precautionary measures where products for animal nutrition produced in the eu present a serious risk to humans, animals or the environment.
the report was unanimously adopted by the environment committee.
the extent to which we are affected by the gloomy climate of the world economy depends largely on ourselves.
in this difficult environment, the european central bank is doing an excellent job.
this favourable environment has not been sufficiently exploited by some member states to reduce their budget deficits and debt levels.
we have six million tonnes of electronic waste in europe every year.
we expect to see a doubling of the amount of electronic waste in about ten years.
the electronic waste is haunting europe, in fields, meadows, forests, ditches and everywhere.
it is not only an environmental factor, but also a resource factor, because we all know that computers contain valuable components which should be collected and fed at a regular rate of reuse and recycling.
this is particularly important because we have already taken the first steps on the altauto regulation, which differs from the electronic waste regulation in that we have hundreds of thousands of companies involved in the electronic waste regulation.
environmental policy cannot be an end in itself, it must have an objective.
a goal for the environment, but also for business, because business is part of this society, which is sometimes forgotten in my committee.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in the same way as the waste.
i think we should keep the commission's quota and not use the excessive quotas which we have given a majority in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is a heterogeneous committee.
the collection of equipment or small parts also consumes energy and can cause environmental damage.
that is why it is important that we make an exception for small parts which do not contain hazardous substances, such as light bulbs, that we always look at the overall ecological balance and then see whether it makes sense to carry out separate collection and recycling or whether it is perhaps not environmentally acceptable.
i see a problem here and there, because, particularly in the case of historical waste, it is not a polluter principle to say that all those who are now active on the market must pay for the costs of those who produced something perhaps twenty years ago.
if we consider that many of these grey imports come from companies which do not comply with the high environmental standards in europe, for example in china, then the polluter principle is turned on its head if we punish companies which are doing a sensible job here for doing so and for registering.
the consumer and consumer responsibility aspects also need to be given greater attention, because consumer behaviour is not yet so established in the field of electronics and electronic waste that they turn to authorised recyclers and dispose of the parts.
this legislation will lead to waste streams, material streams that have never existed before.
the common position did not provide for the identification of priority hazardous substances or for the gradual elimination of pollution of waters by dangerous substances.
the objective is to gradually eliminate pollution of water by continuously reducing discharges, emissions and releases of priority hazardous substances with the aim of their complete elimination within 20 years.
the committee on the environment proposes that the commission should include these 11 substances in the under review list as early as next year.
the committee on the environment therefore wants to avoid the commission postponing the decision on whether these 11 substances are priority hazardous or only priority until 2004, when the list of priority substances is to be revised in accordance with article 16 of the water framework directive.
the committee on the environment also wants to ensure that article 16 is implemented and that this decision is not put on hold because of industrial or other interests in the classification of substances on the under review list.
we must always bear in mind that this report is only a preparatory report and that the water framework directive provides for 20 years to achieve the environmental objectives in the field of water protection.
the committee on the environment also wants to have the commps procedure changed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
finally, we are not starting from scratch in europe, because many of these 32 substances are already being examined under the phytosanitary directive, the biocides directive and the directive on waste chemicals.
we can put that money to better use for the environment.
whether this has to be done by 1 july 2002, as we have decided in the decision of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, or whether the commission has to submit a supplementary proposal as soon as possible, that is a matter for the moment.
i would also like to thank the committee on the environment.
- (de) i voted against the conciliation result on the tobacco directive for the following reasons: the conciliation agreement provides that the export to third countries of cigarettes containing more than 10 milligrams of tar, 1 milligram of nicotine and 10 milligrams of carbon monoxide should be prohibited.
tobacco-opponents must not equate tobacco exports with potassium cyanide emissions.
does the commissioner think that there should be a systematic examination of the budget lines of the european union to see which of them actually allow us to achieve sustainable development?
could we use the best practice method to check which budget lines are actually promoting sustainable development?
(sv) madam president, mr president of the commission, this is a day that i, as the rapporteur of the european parliament on sustainable development, have been waiting for for a long time.
finally, should it be seen as a general tool for all the union's activities, or how should the sustainability strategy be interpreted?
- (de) madam president, mr president, when we talk about sustainability and the ambitious objectives you are proposing, we are in fact in a vicious circle.
we talk about alternative energy but solar and wind energy receive a paltry amount of support.
the energy companies don't want to allow these kinds of projects to go ahead.
when it comes to sustainability and your ambitious goals, we are in a vicious circle.
we talk about alternative energy and solar energy, wind energy is hardly promoted.
the big energy companies don't want to put things like that on the grid.
conservation and sustainable management are the key factors in setting the quotas.
the transatlantic dialogue must also be extended to the field of global transport policy, since both the us and the europeans have a special responsibility for greater safety in the air and at sea, for better environmental protection and for fair conditions of competition and cartels.
we must not have another dispute with the americans over hushkitted airplanes, but we must try to work together to regulate environmental and safety standards in advance.
we must fight together to make our environment safer and more secure.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the same rules to the various types of waste.
the very specific amendment no 13 could be of interest for measures to be promoted in the environmental programmes, but not for the basic regulation of the sector.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the president of the republika srpska and his government, including the prime minister, must make a serious effort to punish this incident and to ensure a climate of peaceful coexistence, as was the norm in this region until 1991. i think we should not shy away from attaching conditions to our financial aid.
however, given the particular circumstances in bosnia and herzegovina, the commission shall endeavour to ensure that the overall policy environment, including the political reality on the ground, is as favourable as possible and that the macro-financial assistance measures are consistent with other community measures.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i would also like to emphasize that the commission is pursuing a strategy to promote food security and rural development in african countries, which also focuses on the situation of children and women in the achievement of sustainable rural development.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
we cannot wait forever, especially in the present climate of uncertainty created by the restructuring plans of many companies.
we have had one for biotechnology, one for energy, one for the environment, and so on.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the effects of the environment on health, and if so, what is the commissioner's position on this?
environmental health risks - you will see this in the document - are discussed on the page on the priority 'food safety and health risks'.
secondly, we need a reform that will make the union truly sustainable.
the problem is that while there is no theoretical contradiction between economic growth and environmental protection, in practice economic growth has so far generally had negative effects on environmental quality.
on the other hand, economic decline, coupled with an increase in unemployment and poverty, always results in a loss of environmental quality.
the issue is therefore very complex and difficult to grasp, particularly because there is still no universal indicator for the monetary valuation of environmental goods.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the environment.
only fair competition can ensure the acceptance of environmental measures of any kind.
trade in environmental goods must be fair.
environmental taxes and charges are only meaningful and effective if they are emission-related and revenue-neutral for the citizen.
in addition, such taxes and charges may not be spent in any way other than for environmental purposes.
only then will it be possible to meet the legitimate demand for a healthy environment of our citizens and of people outside the eu.
i thank mrs hulthén for presenting her report on sustainable development, which she has produced under great time pressure, under difficult circumstances.
it contains important environmental policy points.
if, for example, in paragraph 32 we call for a minimum income and make statements on social security, then this should not be stated in an environmental policy report which has actually been prepared only by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, but only after intensive discussion with the economic and social committee.
i also regret - and this is certainly also due to the time constraints - that we have only included one point on the development policy aspects of sustainable development, because anyone who is concerned with sustainable development, with the rio process, knows that the heart of the whole issue is development policy.
one point in the report and in the statements by commission president prodi on sustainable development has caused a great deal of stir in germany.
if the pse group calls in the forthcoming report on the sixth environmental action programme for an end to the programme before 2005, this will lead to mass redundancies and we will certainly not achieve this goal in a sustainable way.
sometimes something is lost altogether, for example in noise, which i believe is a central environmental factor for human health.
today proves it again: the european union's environmental policy has become a major focus of european policy in recent years.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
the compromise reached in the conciliation committee on the environmental impact assessment of certain plenary programmes is therefore also an important element in the environmental policy of the european union.
i would stress that the inclusion of environmental impact assessment should not be seen as jeopardising the granting of aid.
i would like to point out another weakness: it is doubtful whether the environmental impact assessment as presented in this text is applied in a comparable way in all the member states.
if environmental impact assessments in one country are only intended to identify potential hazards, but in another country the same environmental impact assessment results can lead to the prohibition of the measures in question, it is hardly possible to speak of a regulation relevant to the internal market.
we have a very good climate in the committee.
the amendment to the directive comes at the right time, now that we finally have a sound legal basis in the treaty of amsterdam, and it gives concrete expression to the protection of women against discrimination in the workplace and in the professional environment.
i would like to conclude by commenting on the request for my report to be referred back to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
in the overall view of animal welfare, the natural behaviour and requirements of animals should be consistent with environmental and consumer protection concerns, but also with an expectation of profit.
the new information technologies can bring the population closer to their state, they can help to improve health, education, culture, education, the environment, in any case providing in-depth information on them.
(the minutes were approved) the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
- the next item is the report (a5-0198/2001) by mr whitehead, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (com (2000) 716 - c5-0655/2000 - 2000/0286 (cod)) laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the european food authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety.
the environment committee also decided that the authority should be financed solely from the general budget.
the result justifies the effort, the result being that valuable nutrient carriers are not simply destroyed, but are used for useful purposes - this also applies to kitchen waste - that on the other hand, what is not part of the food chain is discarded and destroyed.
food waste from large-scale restaurants and catering companies.
the commission proposal, as amended by the committee, is therefore in line with the bse committee's call for a strict separation of animal waste into 'waste suitable for human consumption' and waste from dead and sick animals.
food-grade slaughter waste is a valuable source of protein that we should not be doing without.
the proposal sets target values and long-term objectives for ozone in ambient air.
in doing so, the transboundary nature of ozone and cost-efficiency aspects have been taken into account.
as i mentioned earlier, this proposal is closely related to the proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings where conciliation negotiations are currently under way and we have to recognise the difficulty of finding a solution for linked issues, for example the target values for ozone, in the absence of a definitive outcome.
in light of the insufficient scientific knowledge on ozone formation, the commission cannot accept any of those amendments.
however, the commission agrees on the general aim fully to close the gap between long-term objectives and current ozone levels and could accept amendments nos 2 and 6. amendments nos 26 to 31 would require attainment of the long-term objectives, save where physically impossible.
amendment no 21 would require a direct comparison between the performance of member states in improving air quality and the commission could not accept this amendment as the proposed comparison is not considered appropriate, in particular, with regard to the transboundary nature of ozone.
finally, amendment no 22 requires special attention to the effects of ozone on human health and the environment and the commission accepts this amendment.
in particular, at meetings with the chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, the council regularly informs parliament of matters of importance to the community's trade policy and, in accordance with the so-called westerterp procedure of 1973, informs parliament of negotiations on trade agreements with third countries before they are opened, during the negotiations and after they have been concluded.
i would also like to note that the swedish minister for trade, leif pagrotsky, will have two meetings with the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy during the swedish presidency.
in addition, representatives of the european parliament were invited to the ministerial meeting of the euro-mediterranean council on 29 may 2001. furthermore, the chairman of the committee on rule 133 invited all members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy to an informal meeting on 31 may 2001.
mr president, commissioner, representatives of the council, ladies and gentlemen!
the committee, the council's advisory body, supported the launch of this procedure in march and confirmed its position in june 2000. as mrs mann and mr schwaiger have said, there has been a lot of exchanges of views between the commission and its services and the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on this wto case.
a sustainable asian policy must aim at partnership and constructive dialogue, not least with the people's republic of china.
i would like to return to the incentive model in the gsp, the general system of preferences, which has been extended to include the area of 'social and environmental'.
since then we have had a close and constructive discussion on the future of europe, on the three 'es' - enlargement, employment, the environment - on openness and reform, on crisis management and conflict prevention, on the debate on the future, on democracy, development and human rights.
common eu positions have been established on all nine chapters set out in the swedish presidency's roadmap, including several difficult issues such as the free movement of persons, the acquisition of real estate and, not least, the environment.
the environmental chapter has been closed with no less than four candidate countries.
in gothenburg we will also be dealing with the third 'e' of the swedish presidency: environment.
we will take some important steps to align eu policy with ecological, long-term sustainable development by setting concrete targets, concrete actions and an effective follow-up process.
in this respect, we will build on the commission's report which proposes, among other things, measures to combat climate change and health risks, and for the responsible management of natural resources and improved transport systems.
the eu is really the only global force that can drive environmental issues and sustainable development globally.
it is therefore also natural that climate issues and the kyoto protocol should be raised at the summit with the us president in gothenburg, which we will do.
we are now approaching the end of our presidency, but we have a lot of work to do and hope to take some decisive steps at the gothenburg summit - for enlargement, for jobs and the environment and for the global role of the union.
i'm only going to focus on two of these: enlargement and sustainable development.
i now return to the two original questions: sustainable development and enlargement.
first, sustainable development, which is the key to sustainable development.
it is in fact a continuation of the lisbon strategy, with the aim of creating an ambitious but realistic process towards sustainable development.
this is achieved on the assumption that sustainable development is not only about the environment but aims to ensure economic growth, social cohesion and environmental protection, so that these three objectives go hand in hand.
far from being in contradiction, economic, social and environmental objectives are in fact complementary.
on climate change, we are not only aiming to implement the kyoto agreement, but also to think beyond it.
the members of this house can play a key role in this respect: you are rooted in the territory and have close links with regional and local authorities, who will have the primary responsibility for implementing sustainable development policy in the territory.
this strategy for sustainable development is indispensable if we are to achieve a balanced and just society in europe.
the future of our planet depends on global sustainable development, and the best way for the european union to promote this is to put into practice what we have set out to do, so that we can be a guide and an example for everyone.
the most delicate chapters are still open, and there are basically four: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency.
many of our fellow citizens are concerned about the consequences of this new territorial arrangement for their daily lives in terms of employment, the environment, immigration and public order.
on this basis, the enlarged european union and its neighbours will be able to find common solutions to common problems in areas such as transport, energy and the environment, research and development, immigration and the fight against organised crime.
ladies and gentlemen, enlargement and sustainability are therefore the two keys to europe's future.
i would encourage you, madam president-in-office, and of course the president of the commission, to express in a proper but firm manner that we europeans want the kyoto protocol and the reduction of emissions to be a success.
the american president is right on one point when it comes to reducing emissions.
we cannot exclude nuclear energy from a sensible energy mix if it is safe.
we are against defaming nuclear energy, the peaceful use of nuclear energy in general, for ideological reasons, as large sections of the socialists and others, including those in this house, do.
the rapporteur has made proposals which are also a useful contribution to transport policy and environmental policy.
now, our experience over the last few years is that we don't just have tanker accidents, but we have dangerous substances, we have harmful substances and we often have the so-called bunker oil on other ships that pollute the environment.
we are now introducing the esclopé report to show that we want to have regulations not only on oil pollution but also on pollution by dangerous substances and by harmful substances.
because there's a lot of pollution in the oceans, not just from oil, but from chemicals and other substances.
i am saying that this is not an insignificant issue and that we should therefore make an effort to help stabilise prices, knowing that prices will naturally go up rather than down in the next few years, due to the shortage of oil and for environmental reasons, but abrupt changes are risky.
now i also know that these reserves, these storage facilities that we've built up for these 90 days, compared to the oil that's underground, are of course incomparably smaller, and that releasing these reserves also has little impact on the price of energy.
what makes me think is that opec is siding with the united states on climate policy.
that means we are dealing with an ally of the united states that could become dangerous in climate policy.
i would be very much in favour of having a climate policy dialogue with opec.
i would also like to point out that the commission has in the meantime adopted the green paper on the security of energy supply which is so closely linked to this document and, of course, to mr linkohr's report.
in this context, the key issue is that europe can speak with one voice and that we do not find ourselves, as sometimes happens, unfortunately, in the energy field, with the positions of some country that goes beyond what was agreed the day before - and this happened to us quite recently.
this is the context in which issues such as eu-russia cooperation in the energy field are framed, through the dialogue launched by president prodi at the eu-russia summit in paris on 30 october.
but we can say, in any case, that our energy policy options must concentrate on controlling demand, both for oil and for the other sources of energy.
on the one hand, our energy resources are limited; on the other hand, we cannot forget our commitments in the field of the environment - and i am referring in particular to our kyoto commitments - where we undoubtedly have a different position from that of the united states.
this would be contrary to our environmental objectives, in particular those under the kyoto protocol, and would involve transferring tax resources to the producing countries.
what we are proposing, in the context of the green paper currently being discussed in parliament, is a series of energy-saving measures.
for example, one on the improvement of the energy performance of buildings, a sector in which, as some of the speakers have pointed out, there is great potential for savings.
ladies and gentlemen, mr president, the oil crisis has drawn public attention to the energy problem.
i'm thinking about issues like our increased dependence on the outside world or the problem of global warming.
i would like to conclude by saying that we must find a balance between animal welfare, health and environmental aspects.
i would also like to thank mr busk, the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for the support given to this specific issue of the welfare of pigs.
the proposal also sets out rules to improve the living environment of pigs and piglets in general, setting requirements for living spaces, floor surfaces and proper feeding systems.
we also point out that we want to apply the provisions of articles 3 and 4 of regulation 1229/99 on the respect of environmental standards.
mr fischler, you have proposed or considered providing up to eur 5 000 from the second pillar in future for farms of this size, because these farms, by their management, if they comply with certain environmental standards, contribute to the ecological and social design of rural areas.
i would like to make a few comments on the question of the use of food waste, which is a matter of concern to us all.
it was the enlargement of the union, employment and environmental issues.
enlargement, foreign policy, environmental issues - these issues were extremely important to the swedish presidency.
we had very good support from the commission and commissioner wallström, namely the sixth environmental action programme and then the commission's report on sustainable development.
in gothenburg we were able to lay down principles for the future approach to environmental issues.
we were thus able to take a decisive step towards sustainable development in its three dimensions: economic, social and ecological.
i have a feeling it never does when it comes to environmental issues.
we took up some of the decisions that were left over, so to speak, at the stockholm summit - the european single sky, patent issues, general economic developments, the demographic issue, sustainable pension systems.
secondly, the european council gave its support to a strategy for sustainable development.
the environment has been placed at the heart of our policy through the lisbon process.
on 15 may, president prodi presented the commission's proposal for a sustainable development strategy to you in this house.
today we are pleased to note that the european council supports a sustainable development strategy for the european union.
sustainable development is defined by the brundtland commission as 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs'.
the most important decision in this context was the decision to complement the lisbon strategy with an environmental dimension.
sustainable development will be a regular item on the agenda of the spring european council meetings from next year.
in political terms, this means that the environmental dimension of sustainable development now has the same dignity as economic and social issues.
the lisbon process has become even more important as it is now the framework for promoting all dimensions of sustainable development.
the european council also noted that the commission will introduce in its action plan for better regulation, to be presented at the laeken european council, mechanisms for all major policy proposals to include a sustainability impact assessment.
member states are encouraged to develop their own national strategies for sustainable development.
these are important decisions, as sustainable development cannot be achieved without effective procedures and effective decision-making to ensure a consistent and long-term policy.
secondly, in line with the commission's proposal, the european council has focused on four priority areas for sustainable development.
these areas complement the economic and social objectives of the lisbon programme: the first is climate change.
climate change is costing us and the rest of the world a huge amount of money.
at the same time, climate policy offers economic opportunities for cleaner and renewable energy sources, if we use them properly, and for more efficient energy use.
threats include the accumulation of chemicals in the environment and the increasing prevalence of antibiotic resistance.
thirdly, the waste of natural resources and the loss of biodiversity.
if it is to work in the long term, traffic growth, congestion and environmental impact must be limited.
sustainable development must be the top priority in the review of common policies.
i would like to stress that sustainable development should not just be about problems, concerns and costs, but should be about innovation, investment, growth and new jobs as much as it is about environmental protection, health and quality of life.
sustainable development as a concept and idea offers new economic opportunities.
finally, the commission europe also has an international responsibility for sustainable development.
early next year, the commission will present a communication on how the union can contribute globally to sustainable development.
this communication, together with the sustainable development strategy presented in gothenburg, will be the eu's main contribution to the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg next year.
citizens expect us to be part of the solution to the global problems of environmental degradation and underdevelopment.
this is what sustainable development is all about.
it is therefore an important step forward that the european council in gothenburg has endorsed a strategy for sustainable development and thus launched the process of drawing up and implementing it.
foreign policy, environmental policy, enlargement of the union - these are all very much future debates!
it is about enlargement, it is about foreign and security policy, it is about the environment.
it has been said that the environmental decisions in gothenburg would not be detailed, would not be in any way binding or in any way challenging.
it was for this reason that we raised interest rates six times in 2000. by doing so, the ecb contributed to ensuring the sustainability of non-inflationary economic growth in the euro area.
with regard to the second pillar, we continue to expect the currently high rates of inflation to remain a transitory phenomenon and, in the absence of further unfavourable price shocks, inflation rates should fall below 2% in 2002. these developments are expected to take place in an environment of weaker economic growth, which should, however, remain broadly in line with trend potential growth of the euro area.
the following measures would be useful: first, the definition of the secondary monetary policy objective under article 105 is to be defined and published in order to make clear when the ecb can and must support growth and employment in the euro area and that the ecb also supports the conditions for high-level, employment-intensive, sustainable growth, as the eu summit in lisbon did with its target orientation towards 3% growth.
the first proposal was that economic decisions should be guided primarily by core inflation, that is, a rate of inflation where energy and food are excluded.
if you did that, you would be making a good case for the situation, because what is hitting the citizens is not core inflation, but inflation including energy and food prices.
the commission's proposal is not a mere technical proposal, but a proposal to make the european parliament more aware of the need to protect the environment.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0227/2001), on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market (doc.
as the president has just said, we are now in the second reading of the proposal for a directive on the promotion of electricity from renewable sources.
there is a legitimate hope that the first european law on renewable energy will soon be in force.
this european law will help to increase the share of electricity from renewable energy sources.
it will help us, the eu, to achieve our self-imposed target of doubling our emissions by 2010. this law will make an important contribution to the investment in electricity production from wind, solar, water, biomass.
the eu will then demonstrate that it is ready to meet its responsibilities for climate protection and sustainable energy supply.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups, in particular mrs ayuso gonzález and mr claude turmes, who have supported this process with their time and energy, their willingness to fight and compromise.
more importantly, i think the current definition of renewable energy is simply wrong.
to facilitate the achievement of the targets, individual member states have insisted on including the biomass share of household waste in mixed incineration.
this not only undermines the european objective of waste prevention and treatment, but also sends the wrong signal against the development of genuine renewable energies.
the amendment passed by parliament will make the law a significant contribution to the development of renewable energy sources.
secondly, the commission must assess in a report, which is to precede a proposal for a harmonised system, the success of the national systems in increasing the market share of electricity from renewable energy sources.
fourthly, access to the grid for electricity from renewable sources is guaranteed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted.
we have a huge renewable energy potential in europe.
let us use it in a way that reflects our responsibility for sustainable development.
- the next item is the report (a5-0226/2001) by mrs flesch, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (com (2000) 407 - c5-0715/2000 - 2000/0328 (cod)) on the implementation of the 'eu' first level domain.
i would also like to begin by extending my warmest congratulations to the rapporteur for the committee on industry, trade, research and energy, mrs flesch, on her excellent report.
- the next item is the report (a5-0232/2001) by mrs niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision (com (2000) 407 - c5-0449/2000 - 2000/0187 (cod)) on a regulatory framework for electricity spectrum policy in the european community.
the committee on industry, trade, research and energy has not fully adopted this view of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport to the extent that we would have liked, but it is committed to the principle of freedom of expression, and this is a crucial reason why we can also agree to the report in its present form.
sweden had three priorities, in this case the three 'e's': employment, environment, enlargement, and significant progress has been made in each of these areas: a new impetus has been given to the lisbon process, a common strategy for sustainable development has been put on track and excellent work has been done in the area of enlargement of the union.
its concrete and sustained implementation is essential if we are to succeed in making the european economy truly dynamic and competitive during this decade, and at the same time ensure that our social model remains anchored in the principles of justice and sustainability.
the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
we are therefore in favour of a more flexible approach to the problem of the environment.
rarely are they about environmental issues and mostly only marginally about human rights.
the applause for mrs jackson's speech, which has come from all the political groups, shows that there is a consensus in europe on climate policy.
the task of tackling climate change is so enormous that going it alone will be extraordinarily difficult.
climate change has always been there, but this time we're doing our part, and that's the part that counts.
the fight against climate catastrophe is the most important environmental policy challenge of our time, and i would go so far as to say that it is perhaps the most important challenge of all, even outside environmental policy.
the european union should make climate change and the kyoto agreement the main priority in its relations with the united states.
if the americans are then ready to ratify kyoto and to cooperate concretely in bonn, then we should also be flexible and, for example, not simply follow the eu's doctrine on nuclear energy, but also make compromises.
but the americans must commit themselves to ratifying kyoto and to supporting the climate change process.
you know that this house has not had any difficulty in requesting urgency in this area and that we have also expressed our willingness to make the necessary procedural changes as quickly as possible with the cooperation of the other committees involved, such as the committee on budgets and the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
but if at the same time a violation of the principles of the rule of law is being blackmailed, above all by the usa, but obviously also by the german chancellor, then this is a policy which in the long term and in a sustainable way is more likely to discredit the rule of law and democratic development.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
whether on the cliffs of moher in ireland, the algarve in portugal or the watt on the german coast, europe's coasts have enormous economic, ecological, social and cultural significance.
for a fragile ecosystem such as the coast, this poses dangers.
we need to create an integrated management system that ensures sustainable development and preserves the coast as a habitat.
but this interplay of forces benefits our environment in the long run.
i very much hope that the optimism of the heads of government gathered there will help to revive the economic recovery, because we need sustainable growth in the united states as well as in other regions of the world, and europe is not immune to developments in other regions of the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the implementation of the directive will probably reduce noise and exhaust emissions.
it is therefore important to reduce noise pollution in particular.
if you pollute the environment not because it is socially necessary but for the sake of pure recreation, then the equipment should be as clean and as quiet as possible.
in the case of china, we in the epp group also deplore the decades of deforestation, pollution of rivers, uncontrolled emissions, which are almost overturning the ecosystem.
i share parliament's concerns for the environment in beijing and in china more widely and for the effects which preparation for the games could have on the city.
during my visit in may, i met some of the handful of genuine chinese non-governmental organisations working on environmental issues.
i was left with the strong impression that china will find it impossible to meet the objectives it has set itself for environmental protection without the assistance of a civil society, which has mobilised itself voluntarily.
a relaxation of the rules governing the establishment and operation of genuine grassroots ngos is essential, so as to harness the energy and commitment of a population of over a billion.
but sustainable success will only come when consumers' awareness changes and they demand these products.
this is the precondition for solidarity and certainly sustainable action, and the presence of women is still insufficient.
coal and steel are now in the middle east tourism, water, energy.
the commission is continuing to count on parliament's support in the crucial final phase of the negotiations and i am pleased to note that, according to the contribution of the rapporteur, mr brok, and the presentation by the president-in-office, there is still a large, broad and sustainable consensus between the three institutions, parliament, the council and the commission.
let us talk about the fact that enlargement does not pose a threat to the protection of the environment, but on the contrary that in a few years' time eu standards will apply throughout europe and not just in the western part.
let's talk about how enlargement is good for all of us, because we continue to gain political, economic and also environmental weight in the world, in a world that is becoming increasingly globalized.
it is costing europe economic, social, ecological and political stability, and above all it is costing trust.
in conclusion, mr commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, i would like to say that i am very much looking forward to the citizens being able to experience and to help shape the enlargement of the european union, not primarily through glossy pamphlets, but through a democratic social and ecological reality that is their own.
the situation of increasing relocation of farms to the eastern neighbouring countries is already intolerable because of environmental and social dumping.
but the eu's environmental and social standards can only be enforced if there is real membership.
it must be a joint project to convert direct aid into environmentally and socially sustainable structural development.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community with the european union.
i would like to highlight lithuania's energy policy as a specific aspect in which we, as the eu, are also investing a lot of money.
the problems associated with climate change and what needs to be done to stop climate change are far beyond what was agreed in bonn.
those who fundamentally criticise the kyoto protocol - there were some members of parliament from germany, for example, who said that the whole protocol is useless, and who also said this as an environmental politician, it is useless because it does not bring enough - must be countered, if the house is burning and you think you would need ten fire engines to put it out really well, then you can not send back the first fire engine that arrives and say, please start to put out, when all ten are there, but you have to do as quickly as possible what can be done, and always point out that further measures are necessary.
i am always amazed to see how europeans agree on the issue of climate change and measures to combat it.
i believe that climate policy is also a kind of identity politics in europe.
i would like to address one aspect, namely the impact of this climate policy on energy policy.
the key thing about this climate policy is that in the future we will put a price on co2.
renewable energy is not becoming more expensive, that is, it is becoming more competitive.
but nuclear energy will not get any more expensive either.
the fact that it is not exempted from emissions trading but only prohibited under joint implementation is also an advantage for nuclear energy.
so we're getting a whole new weighting within the energy spectrum.
the objective was to reduce the total nox emissions of trucks in transit through austria by 60% by the end of 2003. in 2000 we had already reached 56%, which means that we are well on our way to achieving this treaty target by 2003. secondly, the ecopoints system itself is not attacked by the commission's proposal.
this rule runs counter to the very purpose of the eco-points system, which is to protect the environment by reducing nox emissions.
this will ensure that we do not reduce the nox emissions in austria any further.
so we are talking about an existing legal contract that expires in 2003. the objective was - and this has been mentioned - to reduce the use of environmentally friendly lorries in alpine transit by austria and to reduce nox emissions by 60% compared with 1992, and this is almost achieved.
third and last, our overall transport policy objective is a sustainable transport system that allows sustainable mobility.
if the liberal member is complaining that we are not treating the environment properly and she is calling for environmental protection, i would ask the austrian member: when will you provide the money to build the brenner base tunnel?
then you're doing something for the environment!
mr stockmann has said so much right, namely that the main objective of reducing nox emissions is actually almost achieved and that the 108% clause is disproportionate and inaccurate.
this means that you would split the transit, you would have more emissions, you would have more costs for the consumer - that is not the solution!
we did not always agree, but the climate was perfectly human, and the cooperation was constructive.
- the report (a5-0217/2001) by mr lannoye, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the draft council directives on the simplification of the vertical directives in the field of foodstuffs: proposals for council directives on certain sugars intended for human consumption (13003/1992 - c5-0346/1999 - 1996/0113 (cns)); the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this.
first of all, i would like to thank the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and in particular you, mr lannoye, as rapporteur, for examining the drafts of the five so-called vertical directives which have been submitted by the council.
we have tabled a regulation on the feeding of animal meal in certain cases - it concerns animal waste.
mountain farming is a perfect example of what happens when you try to overcome local and sustainable farming.
the fact is that we should be calling for sustainable management in agriculture in general, but then there would be no agreement, so this would serve as an alibi.
but we would like to extend this discussion to agriculture as a whole, to achieve a more sustainable and locally adapted farming system.
the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the task of developing a common policy on the environment.
we must think in terms of the economy as a whole and also take into account the costs of acidification and the pollution that affects the population.
i am very interested in the question of when such a regulatory framework actually takes effect, and there is no doubt that the environment committee has gone too far.
i would like to say, in contrast to my other highly esteemed colleague ria oomen, that i think it is a very bold statement to believe that we environmental politicians can decide in an environmental directive whether military aircraft are to fly or not.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the noise pollution caused by the aircraft is not reduced to a level that is not acceptable to the individual.
this very long title covers essentially machines as we all know them: machines such as lawn mowers, chainsaws, hedge shears, drills - all these mobile machines which have perhaps been a little too little the focus of environmental legislation in recent years.
or we know that on some days in june of this year, 40 percent of the hydrocarbon emissions come from these mobile machines, 40 percent of the ozone precursors.
the commission has already made a number of critical comments in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
we have taken a very ambitious approach in this respect in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
that is about halfway between the decision of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and what the commission has proposed.
but we want to avoid creating distortions of competition for the time being because of environmental legislation which is not justified by environmental policy, we want to give exemptions to small manufacturers with 25,000 units a year and we want to give transitional rules for five years for certain products, for example, for certain chainsaws used high up in the trees or certain two-stroke engines used to drive drills.
two other points have emerged here, which are contained in or linked to the white paper but not contained in it: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
i would also like to thank the vice-president of the commission, who is very energetic in her overall efforts to ensure that europe contributes to solving our energy problems.
i think we can all agree that more efficient use of energy is a very important contribution to solving our energy problems.
modern technology provides us with tools to conserve energy and use it more efficiently.
this is an important step because we are also influencing the global standards here, because the energy star is not only used in the united states and europe, but in countries beyond.
they said that the label alone is unlikely to do much, because unfortunately consumers do not pay so much attention to energy consumption when buying computers and similar items, but to many other features.
so it might be useful to talk about how we can find other ways to promote energy-efficient appliances and phase out the big energy-wasting ones.
poverty, debt management, provision of international public goods and environmental protection can be addressed through different instruments.
the commission - and i am sure that parliament and the council can be counted on to do so - is ready to contribute actively to the debate on the instruments which will ensure coherence between globalisation, sustainable development and global governance.
in any case, some of the work is already under way in the commission, as we are preparing a report by january next year on the external dimension of sustainable development for the rio+10 conference to be held in johannesburg next year.
- the joint debate on the following reports is requested: - a5-0307/2001 by mrs berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the communication from the commission (com (2001) 82 - c5-0173/2001 - 2001/ 2083 (cos)) on strengthening the coordination of economic policies in the euro area; - a5-0306/2001 by mrs peijs, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the commission communication (com (2000) 846 - c5-0172/2001 - 2001/ 2082 (cos)) on the contribution of public finances to growth and employment: improving quality and sustainability.
a final comment on the long-term sustainability of public finances.
the european environment has certainly become more difficult for competition policy again.
it is therefore important - and the committee on economic and monetary affairs calls for this - that the eu's competition policy should finally be extended to the energy, transport and pharmaceutical sectors.
only then will it be possible to create a climate which is ultimately holistically directed against the progression of the disease.
i am afraid that the events of 11 september will be used to create new zones of influence, behind which entire peoples and nationalities will forget their problems or will sacrifice their energy interests.
this is a region where europe's survival is at stake, not only strategically and in terms of energy supply, but also in terms of human rights and our cultural ties to this region.
i accept that in our countries there are some who are against nuclear energy, in some countries it may even be the majority.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
tobacco has just been mentioned by the members of the committee on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
but the commission's decision to withdraw funding from the environmental organisation globe is also not transparent.
it is not acceptable that we should be shouting at the gothenburg summit that we want a sustainable transport policy, and then the council is cutting funding for sustainable mobility.
the chernobyl disaster has shown us that the use of nuclear energy carries an unmanageable risk.
the question arises whether the nuclear industry itself should not be required to contribute to a fund to help deal with the disaster, since it is still profiting from east european nuclear energy.
at the same time, we must act more vigorously to offer the world's poorest regions a real chance for sustainable development.
so we need to address with energy, with courage, with imagination the global problems that fuel resentment and discontent: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, the widening income gaps, and the increasingly intolerable economic and social imbalances.
we europeans must contribute our environmental legislation, our food safety rules, our multifunctional agriculture and our social legislation as expressions of a concrete european reality.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted by a large majority the compromise proposal, the socalled soft opt-out, which was supported by the rapporteur.
in the various member states of the european union, these include publicly available energy, water, waste disposal, transport, telecommunications, postal services, media, financial and insurance services, a basic social, educational and training system, social services, external and internal security, justice and reporting.
they contribute to the european social model and to the sustainable development of the eu's regions.
the member states continue to decide in their calls for tender which environmental, availability and social standards they wish to measure.
therefore, ensuring sustainable basic mobility in accordance with urban and regional planning is the primary objective of public transport.
but these calls for tenders must be guided first by transport policy objectives, secondly by environmental policy objectives and thirdly by social policy objectives, and these should lead to an optimum level of mobility for our electorate.
when markets are opened up, the authorities will have to address all employment, environmental, consumer and possibly even more issues if services remain closed to competitive pressures.
we must therefore facilitate the opening up of the market, precisely to guarantee those standards and levels of employment, the environment and consumers that we all want.
- the next item is the report (a5-0363/2001) by mr chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the commission green paper entitled 'towards a european strategy for the security of energy supply' (com (2000) 769 - c5-0145/2001 - 2001/2071 (cos)).
i like this report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his remarks and also the commission on the green paper, because the commission is bringing our energy dependence to our attention.
i cannot recall any debate in the last twenty years which has drawn attention to the dependence on energy imports as much as this green paper.
two comments on nuclear energy.
- the next item is the report (a5-0356/2001) by mrs schörling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the commission white paper on a strategy for future chemicals policy (com (2001) 88 - c5-0258/2001 - 2001/2118 (cos)).
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy of the european parliament adopted this report by a large majority.
the committee on industry, trade, research and energy also considers that legal provisions should not be based solely on the properties of substances but should be based on actual risks that can be scientifically demonstrated.
the committee on industry, trade, research and energy therefore calls for a two-stage screening procedure.
we expressly reject the line of the rapporteur of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on the following points: to include sensitising substances in the authorisation procedure, to limit the validity of authorisation, to include all quantities below one tonne in the registration obligation, to make all data available to the public without restriction, to ban substances on a large scale, to have extensive data and assessments submitted by industry additionally reviewed in a peer review and a number of other points.
the committee on industry, trade, research and energy therefore takes the line of reason that has been demanded by the european trade unions and the european employers in the chemical industry.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
the epp group believes that the white paper must address the inadequacy of european chemicals policy and give top priority to the protection of people and the environment and sustainable development, without jeopardising the competitiveness of the chemical industry and smes in global competition.
the schörling report is clearly aimed at environmental policy, and it is to be feared that the excessive demands on the authorities will paralyse the whole system and make it doomed from the start.
we believe that only a balanced system can ensure that high-quality products are produced within the european union, that jobs are safeguarded and that the protection of people and the environment is effectively improved.
the report is a milestone for environmental and consumer protection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
this is a violation of the precautionary principle, testing these chemicals on ourselves and the environment in a blind flight.
so for decades, we've been playing russian roulette with our health and the environment.
the complaints about shop losses, which are also being raised by colleagues here, are a joke, considering that the chemical industry has lost 14% of jobs in the last ten years, with a 25% increase in real production, without a white paper on chemical policy, and we know very well that the chemical industry has no chance of providing sustainable employment unless it offers environmentally friendly products.
we will fight to make the new chemicals policy the heart of european environmental policy.
i believe that we must put an end to decades of vogel-strauss policy and implement an effective, sustainable chemicals policy which puts health interests and the precautionary principle at the forefront.
what the rapporteur has proposed to us is not an environmental policy proposal.
it is a classic export of pollution, because many companies which are already operating on the periphery of the european union will very soon be moving closer to the periphery of the european union, but also outside the union, in order to escape these unimaginable constraints.
this cannot be modern environmental policy.
i also voted in favour of the langen report in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and i think that is correct.
on the other hand, i also understand that our colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection have different emphases.
i would also remind the president that we are discussing this evening a turnover of 800 billion euros: 400 for energy and 400 for chemicals.
- the next item is the report (a5-0341/2001) by mrs flemming, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the communication from the commission to the council (com (2000) 477 - c5-0634/2000 - 2000/2298 (cos)) and the european parliament and the economic and social committee on the pricing and sustainable management of water resources.
sustainable management of water and the protection of water resources are therefore essential to me.
one tool to achieve this is a cost-covering water price, as required by the water framework directive, which includes both environmental and infrastructure and treatment costs.
i believe that cooperation between public and private companies, using private know-how and capital, is an option for making the best use of water resources from an ecological and economic point of view, without abandoning regional water supplies.
i am not talking about liberalization and competition at any price, but about ensuring an efficient ecological water supply.
at dm 7.72 per cubic metre for drinking water supply and waste water disposal, germany is by far the world's leading country in terms of costs, next to denmark, but the third-least in terms of consumption.
the report assumes that the easily accessible freshwater resources are largely exploited and that sustainable water use and savings can be achieved by introducing an economic lever which would encourage responsible use of water.
- the next item is the report (a5-0323/2001) by mrs corbey, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the implementation of directive 94/62/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 1994 on packaging and packaging waste (directive 2000/239/ec).
mrs corbey, you are right when you say that packaging waste is growing, and that is why it is absolutely right that we should deal with this and the future packaging regulation.
is it true that in the future you want to move away from product policy to waste streams?
there is a point of order which concerns our group in particular, namely the question of renewable energies and the question of euratom funds.
i have to say from the point of view of the group that we have problems here because renewable energy has not been developed to the extent that it should have been, and that too much has been granted, particularly in the area of fusion.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has dealt intensively with the research framework programme.
we have made many proposals on sustainable development, food safety and other subjects, many of which have been accepted by the committee on industry, trade, research and energy, which is responsible for these matters.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has made a clear statement in favour of research and the cure of disease, but also in favour of clear boundaries in the interests of human dignity.
that is why i have tabled a motion with mr fiori, which is in line with the committee on the environment.
as regards bioethics, i would urge that we follow the request of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, which simply takes into account the fact that there are different legal views on this subject in our member states, and we as european legislators cannot replace the member states in this area.
i believe that this means, firstly, that we should make research subject to the principle of sustainable development, as is also provided for in article 6 of the amsterdam treaty and in the gothenburg council decision.
we must reconcile ecological needs with economic and social needs, and it is therefore right and necessary to place research under this primacy.
this is also reflected in some of the amendments in the field of energy and sustainable transport.
if we really do the three things, the question of sustainability, the question of dialogue between research and society and the effective management of smes, then i am sure that research will not only enter the minds of europeans, but also their hearts!
i would like to thank you for the good and constructive cooperation in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
we have very little carbon dioxide emissions that are harmful to the climate.
we also have very little radioactive waste from fusion and, in particular, no significant long-term contamination, as is the case with nuclear fission.
we therefore also call for the pursuit of sustainable economic development, which in the area of structural assistance should in particular promote small and mediumsized enterprises.
i would like to stress the good cooperation with the committee on industry, trade, research and energy.
in its conclusions of 5 december 2000, the industry/energy council confirmed the end of operating aid to shipbuilding from 1 january 2001, in accordance with the council decision of 1998. however, it was already indicated at that time that the commission might change its position following a review in the event of a failure of the negotiations with korea.
i am speaking on behalf of the rapporteur for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and mr valdivielso de cué, not because he is against the report, but because he cannot be present.
in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy the proposals put forward by mrs randzio-plath have a very large majority: 39 votes in favour, 9 against.
the existing minimum taxation requirement – the so-called 57% rule – allows for a higher degree of price manipulation and would not in itself be sufficient to reduce to a sustainable level the gap between the tax and price levels of the present member states and the candidate countries.
next, i was pleased to see that the two parliament committees that have issued opinions on the proposal – the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, with mr maaten as draftsman, and the committee for legal affairs and the internal market, with mr wieland as draftsman – accepted the general thrust of the proposal, subject to a number of amendments.
at that time, we were very optimistic about economic data and really believed that we could achieve sustainable growth of at least 3%, economic reform, full employment and also social inclusion.
the question that naturally arises here - and i would like to put it to you, commissioner - is whether the tax environment, which unfortunately is still characterized by national proximity and not by coordination, does not have a negative impact on investment activity in the european union, particularly on crossborder investment activity.
of course there is the environmental safety.
the objectives of the commission's white paper to ensure the sustainability of the chemical industry are not in any way called into question.
from an ecological point of view, we need maximum protection of consumers and the environment.
and a president appointed by the european council, who enjoys the confidence of the heads of state and government, will be able to create much more easily the necessary climate of confidence between the convention and the european council.
we are convinced that secure jobs, a positive working environment and adequate workers' rights do not reduce productivity and economic growth and thus job creation, but on the contrary, promote them.
but above all, we need sulphur-free fuel because we want new technologies to come to market, not to reduce traditional emissions, but to consume less.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of human health and the environment.
i very much welcome the fact that not only the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, whose deliberations i am here to contribute to, but also the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy have unanimously drawn attention to the fact that it is not enough just to try to avoid the danger of a digital divide in the european union with words.
i am sorry to say this, and i would like to express my gratitude to the belgian presidency for everything else, but this is the disadvantage of this result: the way forward for equal access through a common standard for digital television is now being laid, and of course we need a balanced balance between market development and public service obligations, but these two aspects have been taken into account by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market in their decision-making.
the rapporteur has made it very clear - and as a member of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy i can only emphasize this - that a common standard and interoperability for digital television is not only an industrial policy issue but also a consumer issue.
the european investment bank should use its resources not only for knowledge-based enterprises in the multimedia and biotechnology sectors, but also for high-technology enterprises in the environment and energy sectors and for innovative service providers in the craft, trade and tourism sectors.
how is sustainability ensured?
i am thinking here of the draft regulation on animal by-products not intended for human consumption, specifically category iii, but also of the future use of food scraps and waste from food production.
it is true that a strict limitation to the four priorities set out in nice would weaken the credibility of the convention, that is to say, the catalogue of questions must be extended to meet the expectations of citizens and to make the enlarged union sustainable.
it is important that we in the european union can bring our ideas of a social and ecological market economy into the system of free and fair world trade and also slowly make them a reality.
the commission has not yet reached the stage where investment and environmental issues are already the subject of negotiations, which will be the case in two years at the earliest.
so we are calling for sustainable environmental protection, social standards and the punishment of human rights violations.
the vast majority of the amendments which have now been tabled again and which have been accepted by the committee on the environment, i do not necessarily think that they represent an improvement in all respects.
– i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mr trakatellis, the members of parliament and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for their work on this important and ambitious programme.
i think we can be proud of this history of reducing emissions from cars, trucks and buses, because in fact, despite greater traffic, we have been able to reduce emissions significantly.
here again, there is a two-stage strategy to reduce emissions from new vehicles by 2003 and 2006 so that in 2006 a newly registered motorcycle is in fact as clean as a euro 3 car.
more importantly, it should be noted that motorcycles do not achieve completely different emissions outside the test cycle, i.e.
if we vote tomorrow on the package we have put before you, i believe we will be well on our way to continuing the success story of reducing emissions from transport in europe in this sector as well.
the promotion of such policies in any form, whether official or unofficial, cannot go hand in hand with the re-establishment of a climate of non-violence based on mutual trust.
incitement in all its forms, both official and unofficial, cannot coexist with rebuilding a climate of trust and non-violence.
the promotion of human rights and sustainable development must be the central objective of european foreign policy.
it notes that, since 1995, the dialogue has taken the form of a comprehensive dialogue, with semiannual consultations between the troika and the iranian government taking place since 1998. it covers global issues such as terrorism, human rights, nuclear proliferation as well as regional issues and cooperation in the areas of drugs, refugees, energy, trade and investment.
we have always been very keen, especially in this house, to make fishing sustainable and to ensure minimum standards of working conditions.
beekeepers are not a large voting group, but beekeepers are people who care about bees, and bees are the ones who make sure that, as astrid lulling has said, that our ecosystem is at least somewhat balanced again and again.
but there is a danger that one day there will be a winter and then there will be no spring because the ecological performance of the bees is no longer or not enough.
i believe that a functioning european agriculture and a functioning european ecosystem need our beekeepers to support them accordingly, and that is why i ask for massive support for the lulling report.