the effective implementation of eu environmental directives in the member states is of course of great importance in two ways.
it has serious consequences for animal welfare and for the environment, and the six substances we are talking about here also have harmful effects on human health.
- mr president, the result of the conciliation we are about to have is a substantial improvement in the rules governing the release of gmos into the environment.
i think that all of this makes an important contribution to the protection of the environment and to the protection of human health.
but i would also like to ask for a more detailed explanation of the letter which commissioner byrne and commissioner walström have sent to the members of the committee on the environment, in which they say that they want to provide better information to the public about gmos.
since vitamin requirements depend on a number of factors which differ from one member state to another, such as the climate and the vitamins in the traditional diet, the question is whether this area is suitable for eu harmonisation at all.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
- the eib lags behind other well-known institutions such as the world bank in terms of transparency, accountability and the way it takes environmental and social issues into account in its activities.
with the entry into force of the amsterdam treaty, sustainable development has become one of the pillars of european cooperation.
in accordance with the new article 6 of the ec treaty, environmental protection requirements must be integrated into other community policies.
it is incomprehensible that the committee on agriculture should want the scheme to be extended until 2006, especially since the court of auditors points out that the commission has withheld relevant information and should have addressed the issues of the economic cost of surplus production, the impact on world market prices, the income of developing countries and the impact on the environment.
one of the cornerstones of the swedish presidency is environmental issues.
in the context of its regular and continuous contacts with the european parliament, the council presidency has informed the european parliament since the cardiff european council in 1998 of the state of play of the process of integrating environmental considerations into other relevant areas of community policy.
in this context, it should be recalled that the process of integrating environmental considerations is a complex undertaking, covering both legislative activities within the community and agreements of a more political nature, which in most cases take the form of council conclusions.
the work programme provides for more detailed discussion of the conclusions in this area at a number of meetings in the spring: in march on fisheries, in april on transport and agriculture, in may on energy, industry and development, and in june on the internal market.
the council is currently awaiting this communication from the commission, which will serve as a basis for the council conclusions to be adopted on 31 may 2001. the swedish presidency's work programme for development cooperation includes a discussion on a strategy for integrating environmental considerations into development policy.
the presidency will use all these contributions as a basis for developing a coherent strategy that will summarise the results of the environmental integration process, with proposals on how to follow up.
- mr president, i can understand from the council's reply that fish will be dealt with at a later stage, but i would still like to know whether it is likely that the cardiff integration process will take account of environmental problems in connection with external aspects of other eu policies, such as the damage to the environment caused by the fisheries agreements with the west african states.
an international agreement is needed to achieve real debt relief for developing countries, including by integrating the international poverty targets so that sustainable debt is defined in terms of countries' needs for poverty reduction.
today, sustainable debt is defined in the hipc initiative on the basis of undocumented sustainability values, and most of the countries that have been granted debt relief are paying more on debt than they spend on health and education.
i think there are three crucial points in waste management.
one is that we should separate the waste in these areas from other unsorted waste as soon as possible.
but, of course, it is a small step in the right direction and we can only wish the commission good luck with the new proposal and the new communication on sustainability, which also mentions agriculture, and then we must hope that the commission has the necessary strength to put an end to the agricultural organizations in the various countries.
many cases of pollution could have been avoided if safety had been improved.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
this will make an important contribution to preventing and reducing the harmful effects of ozone on the environment and human health.
the second point i would like to make is the long-term objectives for the concentration of ozone in the air.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ozone layer is not depleted.
i think it is right that we should seek to involve the applicant countries as early as possible in this process, as we have also recommended in the committee on the environment.
the ozone pollution is clearly transboundary, which justifies the inclusion of as many neighbouring countries as possible from the outset.
first of all, sustainability.
i believe that the adoption of this overall strategy for sustainability will make a very positive contribution to european development.
we need to incorporate a mandatory scheme for integrating environmental considerations into all areas of european cooperation, which must be done with the 6th environment action programme as the environmental pillar of the strategy for the coming years.
as we have said in the resolution of this parliament, sustainability must be seen in a global context.
there are currently no other powerful parts of the world outside the eu that are capable of assuming that role, and so i hope that the presence of president bush, who is perhaps the least sustainable of all, will, on the contrary, strengthen the cohesion of the eu on this task.
as rapporteur for the eldr group, i have supported the compromise reached on the amendment of the directive on the storage of waste.
i am fully in favour of common eu rules ensuring that free competition in the internal market does not become competition in a bad working environment.
the debate we are having in other contexts about new forms of management must also be about how we can regulate the working environment most effectively.
can we otherwise commit the social partners and national governments to ensuring a good working environment?
i very much sympathize with the amendments of the committee on the environment to introduce an import ban on products from third countries which do not meet the standards we demand, but that is the same as being in favour of or advocating a trade war, and i do not think we should.
many cases of pollution could have been avoided if safety had been improved.
- (da) we have collectively voted in favour of the report because we believe it is important to find sources of energy which can replace mineral oils.
we voted against paragraph 8 of the report because we are generally opposed to nuclear energy.
i think climate change is one of the most well-documented environmental problems we have ever had, and at the same time the greatest threat to the environment and to future generations here on earth.
but the attitude of the united states should of course only increase europe's responsibility for global environmental developments, as mr da silva also said.
on the contrary, we in europe must ensure that our climate change programme is implemented effectively.
the recent cessation of fishing for cod in the north sea clearly shows that there are some very weak links in the chain as regards the ability of the common fisheries policy to ensure sustainable fishing.
one of the most important instruments for ensuring sustainable fishing is to ensure that the size of the fishing fleet corresponds to the quantity of fish that can be caught.
we must not delay enlargement in any way, but we must listen to the wishes of the countries concerned for transitional arrangements, whether for land purchase or the environment.
i am thinking here in particular of the environmental requirements for waste water treatment, which brussels does not yet meet.
i think it is a fine piece of work and i am glad that we can contribute to improving the directive through the committee on the environment.
the improvements proposed by the committee on the environment will enable us to provide additional safety and ensure a better quality of blood, from the collection to the distribution.
i believe that blood donation should be free of charge, as the council of europe recommends in its guidelines and as the committee on the environment has recommended.
i am very pleased in this connection with the broad support given by the committee on the environment to the council of europe's definition of voluntary and unpaid blood donation.
we must take sustainable development seriously.
as i said, there will be more research, and this research will be for the benefit of the environment, industry and our electorate in the european union.
the employment strategy is now part of the european debate, but this is the first time that the wider economic environment is unfavourable, there are concerns and, as much as we do not want to create fear or panic, it is clear that this year the situation will be more difficult and the beginning of the year will also present problems in terms of employment and economic growth.
the committee approved the commission's proposal for an action budget of eur 151.8 million for 2002, given that the ecsc treaty expires on 23 july 2002. we could have wished for a little more money for future energy needs in clean coal technologies, both in terms of action and research, and we urge the commission to include this in the other programmes.
sustainability must be ensured.
it should be the case that local fishermen are given opportunities for development, and that is to say that the eu must guarantee the concept of sustainability.
it is therefore an important environmental aspect to have some of the land transport transferred to the seas.
in fact, we know only a very small fraction of the hundreds of thousands of chemicals in existence as regards their effects on the environment and public health.
i think it is a serious problem for the eu's environmental and health policy that a comprehensive strategy for chemicals policy was not put into effect many years ago.
that is the purpose of our proposal to reject this text, which is neither acceptable nor desirable for the sustainability of the local public passenger transport service!
nor, indeed, does it help the environment.