the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken this step.
- mr president, mrs jackson has well expressed the concern of the members of the committee on the environment, which, in my case, is reinforced by my membership of the committee on petitions of the european parliament.
40% of the petitions received by the latter come from citizens concerned about the preservation of the natural environment.
and they usually refer to the habitats directive, the environmental impact directive, the birds directive and the right to information directive, which are probably the most under-complied ones, with the ones we are discussing here today on nitrates and pcbs.
all this is achieved by developing innovative products such as agro-tourism, rural tourism of regional interest or by replanting animal and plant species in these natural areas, thus contributing to the sustainable and lasting development of the area.
a distinction must be made between students in agricultural schools, young people who want to settle in the countryside as an alternative to the urban environment and the children of farmers.
i would like to stress another aspect of the report: we must ensure that our future partners in the union, when incorporating the community acquis, do not bring hidden defects with them which hinder the development of the rural environment in their countries.
- question no 30 by mr jonas sjöstedt (h-0972/00): subject: export of mining waste during the 1980s, the swedish mining company boliden exported a large quantity of toxic waste to arica, chile, for recycling.
however, as the waste was stored in an open landfill, heavy metals were released into the environment, causing serious health problems for the local population.
chile then demanded that the remaining waste be shipped back to sweden.
the transport of waste, including transport to and from the community, is regulated by regulation 259/93.
this regulation replaced directive 84/631 on the transboundary movement of hazardous waste.
this revision incorporates the provisions of the 1989 basel convention on the transport of hazardous waste into community law.
from 1 january 1998, the community has therefore prohibited all shipments of hazardous waste to be used for recycling or to be deposited in non-oecd countries.
however, this legislation does not apply to exports of waste from the swedish mining company boliden to chile in the 1980s because sweden was not a member of the eu at that time.
in this particular case, the commission considers that there is no community legislation which can now make the company liable for any environmental impact of these waste products.
the question of bolidens' liability in this case therefore becomes a national issue which must be resolved through national environmental legislation.
there is currently a ban on the export of hazardous waste, including to third countries, i.e.
the environmental organisations denounce the fact that many of the works planned in the plan will affect areas declared of community interest by the spanish government itself, seriously threatening protected species; the trade unions and farmers ' and livestock farmers ' associations stress the negative aspects of the plan and propose a thorough revision; many local authorities insist on the inconsistent planning of some river diversion works and their socioeconomic consequences for the population... all these social actors expressed the wish that the european commission should comment on the plan and intervene with the spanish government to urge it to correct the negative aspects.
the spanish minister for the environment has confirmed his commitment to this consultation.
at the meeting, i brought to the attention of the spanish authorities the need to ensure full respect for all relevant ec environmental legislation and policy including the water framework directive.
the plan remains a draft document and at the request of the spanish environment minister my services are currently examining the draft plan.
my question is: if the final law continues to breach these directives, if it is harmful to the environment, will it have the announced resources of 1.300 billion from the community funds?
if there were a breach of the environmental legislation, we could actually withhold project money.
it is very important that today we have this possibility and, of course, we should not hand out money for a member state to breach environmental legislation.
the years have certainly passed and the current project must be coherent, with much greater social cohesion than has been the case until now, with much greater environmental sensitivity and, undoubtedly, also very participatory.
in this sense, i think that, as this is such an important project for the development of solidarity in the spanish regions, i have no doubt that the comment, the promise or the statement that the minister for the environment has already made on several occasions that this is an open document, that it is a project, a proposal on which there is no doubt whatsoever of the need for consensus among all the regions concerned, my question, madam commissioner, is as follows: in the context of the closest cooperation between the commission and the spanish government and within the situations provided for in the framework directive, what support can the commission give precisely to ensure that this project is properly developed?
i can only repeat that the spanish minister of environment has confirmed his commitment to this consultation process and i know that this is what is going on at the moment and that there is a debate – as i understand, a heated debate – on this issue.
however, i am not aware of any coordination between the departments concerned within the commission and no commissioner seems to have overall responsibility for these matters, although fire safety concerns many policies such as tourism, the environment and consumers or transport.
this is a major environmental problem and a major inconvenience to users.
subject: energy supply and nuclear energy the commission has just adopted a green paper on the security of energy supply.
the document gives new impetus to the nuclear industry, at a time when commission estimates suggest a gradual reduction in the share of energy consumption covered by nuclear from 15% currently to 6% by 2030. civil society, however, refuses to promote nuclear energy as an alternative to fossil fuels.
does the commission intend to increase the share of energy consumption covered by nuclear energy?
how does it think it can finance the development of renewable energy?
how does it intend to use the profits of the nuclear industry as an additional source of financing for renewable energy?
does it not consider it advisable - and even necessary - to redirect the financial resources earmarked for the promotion of nuclear research, including fusion, towards the promotion of renewable energies?
questions to mr nielson
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
at this point, we must support and give at least - and i think even more - similar support to renewable energy.
secondly, waste is simply not renewable energy.
waste incineration simply cannot be a renewable energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a proper manner.
the honourable member is aware that this matter was discussed in this parliament and that it was also the subject of a compromise at the end whereby we agreed to accept, in certain respects and under certain conditions, certain types of waste.
but if you say waste, i'll say no.
it is the member states who make their decisions based on their choices, of course within the general framework, which does not mean that i do not believe that we should think about it because i believe that europe needs a common energy policy.
this was discussed in echo's annual strategic programming meeting with unhcr in december when it was agreed that repatriation may only take place if all parties are convinced that the security situation inside burundi is stabilised and sustainable.
i have just heard this afternoon that ten members of the environmental association greenpeace, ten peaceful environmentalists, have been arrested by the military authority at la roca, gibraltar, because they tried to approach the submarine 'tireless' with a banner expressing what i think everyone thinks: that the sea does not have to be occupied by nuclear power.
these environmentalists are still in detention, and since parliament has been, so to speak, insensitive to safeguarding the interests of the citizens of the gibraltar strip and the bay of algeciras, i ask that at least the necessary arrangements be made so that these environmental pacifists can sleep at home.
mr varela, you make it very clear in this report that we cannot talk about the future of the common fisheries policy without taking into account the wider economic environment of fishing.
a sustainable fisheries economy that preserves fishery resources and protects the marine environment, and in which coastal fishing regions make an important contribution to economic and social structures.
the two rapporteurs also highlight the following serious shortcomings, which have already been identified in the commission report: the limitations on fishing effort have not worked or have not worked sufficiently, the regulation on technical measures in the mediterranean has been implemented only incompletely, the map 4 is far from ambitious enough, the control provisions have not been strengthened as we proposed in 1998. the meetings with the various representatives of the fisheries sector also showed that we need to improve or even completely revamp many aspects of fisheries policy in order to achieve responsible, sustainable fishing.
the main objectives of this reform process, as agreed by the three rapporteurs, are as follows: reducing overcapacity and improving coherence with environmental policies to conserve and restore stocks, involving more directly affected parties in decision-making and solving local or urgent problems more efficiently, in order to ensure compliance and enforcement and to improve overall fisheries management, in other words, everything that falls under the heading of good governance.
and, in relation to the environment, we support sweden's initiative to give substance to sustainable development.
as sjöstedt is well aware, the swedish presidency intends to use all possible energy to try to move forward on the transparency issue during the swedish presidency.
the council sees the obvious long-term remedy to this situation as establishing a lasting balance between fishing capacity and available resources to enable the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and to ensure the future livelihoods of fishermen.
in addition to the structural problems specifically mentioned in the question, the presidency's priorities also include the launch of the commission's green paper on the future of the cfp and the preparation of a presidency proposal on fisheries and the environment, i.e.
the integration of environmental issues and the principle of sustainable development into the cfp.
we look at the environmental impacts of traffic, such as noise and pollution.
the fact is that road transport - cars - have a net and very serious environmental impact, to the extent that they alone are replacing and therefore increasing what in the rest of the industrial areas we are saving in greenhouse gases.
- report (a5-0384/2000) by mr seppänen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council, parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the state of competitiveness of the wood sector and related industries in the european union (com (99) 457 - c5-0306/2000 - 2000/2159 (cos))
the commission.
it will further explore how forest-based and related industries can contribute to sustainable development and optimise their contribution to environmental protection at all stages of the wood chain, from forest to end products.
sustainability is becoming increasingly important.
forest-based industries are those sectors in which all the economic, social and environmental components of sustainable development are closely interdependent.
the forest-based industry uses renewable raw materials and state-of-the-art recycling and energy recovery methods, and can therefore make a particularly significant contribution to sustainable development.
in its june 1999 report, amnesty international stated its belief that there is a climate of impunity in spain.
that is why i am very concerned, together with my colleagues mr verheugen and mr fischler, who are responsible for the phare programme and the sapard programme, and as i am responsible for the ispa programme for the environment and transport, that this money is used properly, that part of the technical assistance linked to these funds is used to train local authorities.
immigration, its causes and consequences - sometimes terrible and irreparable - business, agricultural and fisheries exchanges, social, technical, training and university exchanges, aspects of common development, such as in the energy sector, and the fundamental democratizing political aspects which the european union must promote in these countries call for the creation of new mechanisms and instruments which, in a decentralised way, respond to these local needs but which have a general impact.
the same applies to the flows of migrants we receive, the deterioration of our environment and the dangers to our society posed by radical fundamentalism.
neither the european union nor the maghreb and mashreq countries can afford to waste the human and cultural resources which enrich the region.
finally, i would like to reiterate that we will continue to work with all our energy and determination in the remaining days and, if a summit is held at the end, the european representation will attend and do everything possible to push this process in the right direction.
in recent days, israelis and palestinians have shared the awareness of the need to end the violence and restore a climate of security in the area, but they have also worked together to develop creative solutions to the problems that separate them: jerusalem, the final delineation of the borders, refugees and the settlements to which mr solana referred.
i think that the provocation by ariel sharon last september, with the consent of those who could have prevented it, and the hundreds of palestinian deaths since then have created a climate in palestinian society which makes it difficult for president arafat to accept delayed - though perhaps reasonable - peace proposals which, had they been put forward earlier, in my view could have led to an agreement.
the council also announced its intention, as part of the continuation of the efforts under way, to establish a concrete and independent european programme of socioeconomic and institutional support for the peace process in colombia, aimed at promoting and safeguarding respect for human rights, humanitarian law and fundamental freedoms, improving the living conditions of the local population, encouraging alternative crops and protecting biodiversity and supporting the programme with structural reforms in all areas which are fuelling the armed conflict.
as the swedish presidency just announced, eur 105 million of programmable aid will be made available by the commission over the period 2000-2006. these funds will be dedicated to modernising administration, strengthening democracy and the rule of law, respect for human rights, protecting the environment and developing alternative crops.
it requires a commitment to sustainable development: we already know that fusarium oxysporum spraying is bad for the environment.
in short, we believe that the european union must maintain its own policy in colombia, based on real peace, dialogue, the eradication of poverty and the prospects for sustainable development.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament and as secretary-general of my party, eusko alkartasuna, and of what it represents in the basque country, i want to support a peace process in colombia, but not just any peace process, but one which, as the european ngos most involved in aid to colombia say, is inspired by respect for human rights and the search for genuine sustainable development with social justice for that country and for the whole region.
so i think we have a very positive and constructive environment for a task like the one we are tackling.
if this is not done, it will not be the right step, and we are all aware that the environmental benefit is a net benefit.
mr president, commissioner, if we really want to improve the environment and to relieve the overloaded european roads by rail, i think we must pursue three objectives: first, absolute separation and independence between the infrastructure managers, who must ensure the proper use of the infrastructure, and the users and service operators; second, the complementarity of the railways with other means to achieve a true door-to-door service; and third, just as there are toll-free motorways, there must be toll-free railways.
the cost of transport per tonne of goods must not be a deterrent and, in any case, must be favourable to rail if we really want to change the present situation, to free up our roads and to achieve a real improvement in the environment.
the question of safety is key and the question of environmental improvement is also a matter which directly affects the citizens, but i would like to make one final comment on some of the issues raised here.
- the next item is the report (a5-0004/2001) by mrs erika mann, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation on the implementation of projects to promote cooperation and trade relations between the eu and the industrialized countries of north america, the far east and australasia (com (2000) 381 - c5-0455/2000 - 2000/0165 (cns)).
we are moving away from a narrow focus on trade to comprehensive relationships encompassing everything from the common foreign and security policy, justice and home affairs, education and culture, environmental issues, science and research and, which i regard as particularly important, people-to-people exchanges.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0006/2001) by mrs mcnally, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on a community energy-efficient product labelling programme for office and communication equipment (com (2000) 18 - c5-0061/2000 - 2000/0033 (cod)).
- mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs mcnally for her excellent report and i would also like to thank parliament for its broad support for this proposal which, in the commission's view, will make a significant contribution to improving energy efficiency and therefore to controlling demand, which is one of the aspects that the green paper points out as a key element when talking about security of supply.
i would also like to thank mrs müller for her opinion on behalf of the committee on the environment.
substantial improvement in efficiency in the end use of electricity is needed to meet the european union's commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 2010. office equipment accounts for a significant proportion of energy consumption in the service sector and has a large potential for energy savings.
the commission has proposed the energy star programme as a key measure to reduce the energy consumption of these office equipment, complementing measures taken in other end-use sectors such as household appliances and lighting.
the energy star programme is voluntary and uses a market instrument, namely a quality label, to identify the most energy-efficient products on the market.
in addition, the adoption of the programme will not only introduce a successful office equipment labelling programme and a cost-effective measure to reduce co2 emissions, but also give the community the opportunity to participate in the implementation of a standard which is de facto becoming international.
i would like to say to the honourable members that we can accept all the amendments tabled by parliament, with the exception of no 9. the commission agrees that it is necessary to monitor the evolution of energy efficiency in office equipment, but we do not believe that it is necessary to call for the creation of a special unit as requested by this amendment, among other things, because we are not going to get more resources for it.
on the contrary, we accept in principle amendments nos 5, 11 and 15. in the case of amendments nos 11 and 15, we accept that the commission should submit a report to the council and parliament, although the commission considers that the appropriate time is after three years, as was the case for the first evaluation we made of the energy star programme.
commissioner, as discredited as they are, will they be able to regain confidence, they who are responsible for the current confusion, the lack of control over prohibited feedingstuffs, the environmental mess that is being made, with the irregular burial of hundreds of cows?
- the next item is the report (a5-0002/2001) by mr olsson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 96/22/ec on the prohibition of the use in animal feeding of certain substances having a hormonal or thyrostatic action and of beta-agonists (com (2000) 320 - c5-0357/2000 - 2000/0132 (cod)).
we believe that this committee on maritime safety should not only be a committee that does a better or worse job from an administrative point of view, but that it should also take into account the views of non-governmental organisations, environmental protection organisations and trade unions, so that all this sensitivity is reflected.
we also recommend that the committee should pay particular attention to areas with a particular geographical location, with particular traffic conditions, with particular environmental aspects, such as the strait of gibraltar or the english channel, where we all know that the number of accidents or incidents is much higher than the average, and where a spill of crude oil can have a major environmental impact or a major economic impact on tourist areas.
i would also like to thank all those who have spoken, and especially mrs grossetête, who has presented the views of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, their contributions and their cooperation.
we also want to thank parliament for reminding us that the single committee which we are proposing will not only deal with maritime safety but also with the prevention of pollution from ships, which should be reflected in the title of the committee.
on the contrary, although we are prepared to include the prevention of pollution by ships in the title, we cannot include the protection of the marine environment in a generic way.
this is simply because the protection of the marine environment may also refer to pollution from inland waters, for example, such as river discharges into the marine environment, which can cause pollution.
or other types of actions on the shores, on the banks, which can cause pollution and which are not related to the problem of maritime safety.
we cannot therefore accept this generic definition, which would mean adding other types of competence for which the committee is not competent, but certainly adding the specific addition 'prevention of pollution from ships'.
the only ones we cannot accept are 5 and 12, which is why i have just mentioned the aspect of protecting the marine environment, which is related to matters other than maritime safety.
mr fitzsimons pointed out the problem of nuclear waste transport, for example, and we have certainly incorporated this in the discussion of the erika ii package.
in this respect, the countries of the union are acting as catalysts, as engines, in conveying to the international maritime organization the environmental sensitivity and the safety and security requirements of the marine environment, as well as those of ensuring the life and safety of crews.
both nice and the social agenda agreed at that meeting stress the need to include workers in management changes and to combine the security and flexibility of economic growth with labour relations and the impact on the social environment.
but, looking at the competitive environment as a whole, looking at the environment in which european companies operate, we have to think about how negative the consequences would be if there were no reorganization, no restructuring, if european companies did not actively participate in the business world.
in this extremely difficult environment, our efforts to combine social cohesion and competitiveness have four main objectives.
it's one of the new key elements of the social agenda, we ask workers to change, to accept flexibility in the new environment, to be trained, to show mobility in both sectors and spaces.
written reply to an earlier question on the subject (h-0429/99) dated 14.9.1999. in its reply to the commission's letter of 14 june 1999 (oj c 183, 9.7.1999) the commission stated in particular that (a) the report of the regional environment centre for central and eastern europe had been sent to the environment ministers of the member states in june 1999 and (b) the details of the financing of the rehabilitation activities had not yet been fixed.
the fact remains, however, that the commission, acting on behalf of the union, is probably the lead actor in all the activities to improve conditions of public health and to provide for decontamination and environmental protection.
subject: radioactive pollution in the aegean and ionian seas according to reports in the greek press and also in the turkish press, as reported in the sunday newspaper, missiles containing depleted uranium have been used by the greek and turkish navies in the last ten years in exercises in the aegean sea and the ionian sea.
this question has raised fears of radioactive pollution among the inhabitants of the islands and coastal areas of these two seas but also among the population of the neighbouring countries, as the sea currents carry the radioactivity produced beyond the region in which the missiles were launched.
the title of the question was "radioactive pollution of the aegean and ionian seas".
he will understand, however, that without notice of that question i am hardly in a position to give him the detail that he would want on the specific environmental questions that he raises.
how much slaughterhouse waste has been accumulated in preparation for destruction, and how is it stored?
these measures include, for example, the requirement to remove and destroy specified risk materials, to pressure-cook animal waste and to actively survey the animal populations for the presence of tses.
- mr president, i am not going to waste any of my time in replying or criticising any of the member states that comply with the legislation or do not comply with it, but i would like to ask the commissioner a number of specific questions on the subject of harmonization.
i would like to remind you, however, of the concerns expressed by the committee on the environment and this parliament at the first and second readings.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the community's activities is not undermined.
this regulation, known as emas, introduced the use of market mechanisms for organisations to commit, on a voluntary basis, to a more proactive approach to improving their environmental performance.
the success of the project was largely dependent on the concept that the environment can and should be integrated into the business strategy as a factor that provides added value to the business itself, in addition to environmental safety.
it is a major change in the mindset of the business world to consider respect for the environment as a factor of competitiveness and progress, rather than as an annoying legal obligation, in many cases with a heavy economic cost and with a doubtful appreciation of the effort by the consumer.
this revised and updated regulation is an important contribution to a modern environmental policy, in line with the principles of sustainable development, important for the real improvement of the environmental performance of companies and also for the recognition of this improvement by third parties, especially by the consumer.
the new regulation therefore incorporates a number of considerations which facilitate the participation of european companies in this system of environmental improvement.
the extension of the scope to all types of organisations, including the service sector, and the possibility of incorporating the public administration itself, the establishment of incentives and special consideration by public administrations towards certified companies when awarding public contracts, the promotion of the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, the coordination between the european system and other international environmental certification systems should be highlighted.
the role of the environmental statement is enhanced, as is the work of environmental verifiers, who have to verify that organisations comply with the relevant requirements of this regulation.
these requirements have also been strengthened by parliament's amendments, including: the obligation for companies to comply with environmental legislation; the establishment of higher standards in the qualification and training of environmental verifiers who accredit companies; the production of public reports on the environmental performance of companies, with full credibility vis-à-vis third parties; greater involvement of stakeholders in the process of monitoring and monitoring the environmental performance of companies and, in particular, of workers and users; an extension of environmental responsibility beyond the company's premises to include indicators of the performance of products and services, in line with the approach of the new environmental directives; and also an increase in the role of the coordination bodies in order to facilitate the application of the system in a homogeneous way in the different member states.
as regards annex i, i believe that the environment committee's proposal, which has been successively extended with amendments to deal with it, is correct and should be approved by this parliament.
- mr president, commissioner, i too would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, who i think has done an excellent job, and the other members of the committee on the environment, who have also worked hard.
the report by mr lange, in which our group shares its concern for the environment, constantly compares two- and three-wheel vehicles with four-wheel vehicles; however, their ease of use, the fluidity they give to road traffic in cities, their simplicity in parking and the low cost of their acquisition and maintenance should be more than enough reason for the necessary anti-pollution measures not to become measures that reduce their use.
last year in lisbon, the european union set itself - as mr bullmann very well reflected - the objective of having the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world in the next decade, enabling us to achieve sustainable economic growth with more jobs and greater social cohesion.
in the summary report we have, as mr bullmann has rightly said, a number of specific proposals: ten priorities which the commission would like to see adopted at the stockholm european council, in order to enable us to make progress in strengthening our commitments to structural and social change, which is essential for sustainable economic growth, which will enable us to reduce unemployment and improve cohesion.
we consider it important, in addition to the above-mentioned objective of achieving a knowledgebased society with better jobs, to achieve a stable environment which will allow us to meet the objectives of price stability and sound public finances in the medium term.
in the current good economic climate, despite the slowdown in american growth, we believe that fiscal consolidation processes and the improvement of the quality and sustainability of public finances must be continued, taking into account such important aspects as, for example, the ageing of the population.
when we talk about sustainability of public finances we are talking about the ability to meet future obligations.
however, during this period of economic boom, we have a unique opportunity to improve the internal market in services and to achieve greater openness in sectors such as energy, transport and others that benefit the consumer.
the european union's economy has the strategic objective of becoming the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable growth, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
but it is clear to everyone that being so demanding in the social field, ensuring sustainable growth and, moreover, being more competitive at international level are three very demanding objectives and, therefore, in order to achieve them we must be far above the possible obstacles to their achievement.
commissioner solbes has mentioned them: energy, transport and telecommunications.
i have seen at least two references which i find interesting: why are we not talking about sustainable development?
sustainable development will be the objective of gothenburg, so there is only a clear reference in the present report to the fact that the economic and social dimensions of lisbon will have to be completed by integrating the environmental dimension, which will contribute to a european union strategy for sustainable development.
in general, we all know the importance attached not only by the european parliament but also by the council to obtaining as soon as possible full clarity on the environmental and other problems which may arise from depleted uranium.
question no 10 by mr brian simpson (h-0040/01) subject: transport and integration what are the plans of the transport council to develop indicators and monitor, implement and schedule the measures required as part of its strategy to integrate the environmental dimension into its policies, in accordance with the conclusions of the helsinki european council?
question no 11 by mary honeyball (h-0041/01) subject: energy and integration what are the plans of the energy council to develop indicators and monitor, implement and schedule the measures required as part of its strategy to integrate the environmental dimension into its policies, in accordance with the conclusions of the helsinki european council?
question no 12 by caroline lucas (h-0042/01) subject: general affairs and integration what are the plans of the general affairs council to develop, in accordance with the conclusions of the helsinki european council, a strategy to integrate the environmental dimension into its policies, providing for a set of indicators, a timetable for the measures to be taken and appropriate monitoring and surveillance?
question no 13 by mrs riitta myller (h-0043/01) subject: ecofin and integrationwhat are the plans of the economic and financial affairs council to develop, in accordance with the conclusions of the helsinki european council, a strategy to integrate the environmental dimension into its policies, providing for a set of indicators, a timetable for the measures to be taken and appropriate monitoring and surveillance?
question no 14 by mr peter william skinner (h-0044/01) subject: parliament and the integration process how will the european parliament be consulted on the overall strategies currently being developed by nine councils to integrate the environmental dimension into their policies, in accordance with the conclusions of the helsinki european council?
question no 15 by mr mark francis watts (h-0045/01) subject: coherence of programmes to include the environmental dimension how does the council ensure coherence between the overall strategies developed by nine council configurations to integrate the environmental dimension into their policies?
question no 16 by mrs nuala ahern (h-0046/01) subject: council of industry and integration of the environmental dimension what measures does the industry council envisage to develop a comprehensive strategy to integrate the environmental dimension into its policies, with the setting of a set of indicators and a timetable for the implementation of complementary measures, as well as for the monitoring and control required in the context of the helsinki conclusions?
as regards the action programme on energy efficiency, the presidency hopes that we will be able to act on that proposal during the swedish presidency.
subject: radioactive pollution in the aegean and ionian seas according to reports in the greek press and also in the turkish press, as reported in the sunday newspaper, missiles containing depleted uranium have been used by the greek and turkish navies in the last ten years in exercises in the aegean sea and the ionian sea.
this question has raised fears of radioactive pollution among the inhabitants of the islands and coastal areas of these two seas but also among the population of the neighbouring countries, as the sea currents carry the radioactivity produced beyond the region in which the missiles were launched.
in addition to the economic advantages, my group is very much aware of the political advantages of adopting this draft decision and of the need, therefore, for the eu-mexico joint council meeting at the end of this month to be able to adopt it, because only after it has been adopted can the provisions on political dialogue and cooperation in the fields of education, the fight against poverty, social issues and the environment enter into force - all of which are issues to which my group in particular and this parliament in general have always been very sensitive, because they are the guarantee that the economic benefits, which will undoubtedly flow from the agreement as a whole, will contribute to promoting a more democratic political system and one which respects human rights and is more in line with social justice.
we also regret that the environment is not even mentioned in this agreement, not even, as my colleague caroline lucas points out, in reference to the protocol on biosafety in the intellectual property sections.
- the next item is the report (a5-0052/2001) by mrs plooij-van gorsel, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions - towards a 'european research area': guidelines for union action in the field of research (2002-2006) (com (2000) 612 - c5-0738/2000 - 2000cos).
these are three important themes, not to mention food security, which is obviously very present in europe today, quality of life and sustainable development.
sustainable development will be discussed as one of the key themes of research in the fields of environment, energy and transport.
finally, as regards nuclear energy, i have no problem with parliament's being involved in the debate.
with the amendments it has tabled, the committee on agriculture calls for the launching of collective environmental actions, through the producer associations which we intend to promote and encourage in this sector.
in addition, these amendments by parliament encourage the adoption of measures which are much more environmentally friendly, allow water savings, reduce the use of pesticides and provide for proper management of plastic waste.
it is true that despite the improvements, it still presents environmental problems that we must solve.
we therefore believe that producer organizations are the most appropriate instruments for improving the effectiveness of the necessary measures of self-regulation in production and environmental protection.
secondly - and i cannot dwell on other matters - mr korakas' report develops a framework for the promotion of producer organizations and, above all, a system for implementing actions to reduce the environmental impact of cotton cultivation.
because the commission is talking about possible environmental problems of cotton growing, but it is not proposing solutions.
mr fischler is not very familiar with the mediterranean area, but he should not be unaware of the benefits of this sector, which is very important for the processing industry, has beneficial effects on the environment and is a deterrent to desertification.
i know that i am talking about issues that cost a few euros and that at the moment the money is not enough for the big problem we have, but we cannot allow such important sectors from a regional point of view to be left behind by the agreements we have signed before, where community preference has made it very difficult for them to survive, not to mention a number of other details already considered in terms of their importance, both from an environmental and social point of view.
i would like to remind you of the environmental protection aspect of these crops in the union's most deserted areas, in the case of almonds and hazelnuts for example, or as in the case of chestnuts, which are produced in the most indigenous forests of the community and are therefore preserved.
finally, the current situation must be extended until the entry into force of definitive support measures for these products of regional interest, with a high level of food security, which provide an energy contribution to the mediterranean diet and have a clear environmental protective effect.
this report deals with an area of increasing complexity, such as globalisation, particularly in the environmental field and the problem of migration flows, which is becoming increasingly important in defining the role of the european union in the world.
secondly, because we believe that the principles of solidarity and cohesion on which the european union is founded must guide the management of globalisation, so that it is sustainable.
we are not able to say how much we are doing on environment because the labelling of our different projects was never organised in such a way that we can take out the files and say, “well, this is it”.
nor have environmental measures been adopted, and the new negotiating mandate does not include specific references to the structured and institutionalised participation of civil society in this political dialogue, as we requested.
if, in the latter, we find a model which guarantees equal opportunities and in which transport service providers, even when competing with each other, share networks built and maintained primarily with public resources, reducing the environmental impact of these civil works to the minimum possible, i think it would be wise to opt for a similar scheme for the development of telecommunications, where competition is not for the construction of overlapping infrastructure networks, but for the provision of more efficient and cheaper services for the user.
the transport of nuclear materials, as you have just said, is often approached with a certain amount of passion, given the context and environment of this industry.
as many of you have pointed out during the debate, the nuclear industry, whether we like it or not, is responsible for a considerable part of the security of our energy supplies, and so we must accept that this industry must resort to the transport of radioactive materials.
it is a solution of an essentially industrial nature, which must be chosen on the basis of rather technical and economic criteria and the need to reduce high-activity waste.
this is what the commission has proposed in the context of the sixth research and development programme, with priority given to innovation in waste management.
you want to include a chapter on energy in the treaty on european union in your report.
as our green paper on the strategy for energy security and supply points out, we believe that the euratom treaty fulfils its objectives in a number of areas.
- the report (a5-0076/2001) by mr schwaiger, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations conducted within the wto on the embodied agenda.
the commission must take a firm stand on this matter and defend our industry unequivocally by adopting as soon as possible an ambitious plan which includes operating aid, research and development aid and, of course, environmental aid.
in recent years europe has been confronted with situations which we thought had been eradicated from our environment.
- the next item is the report (a5-0074/2001) by mrs korhola, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on public access to environmental information (com (2000) 402 - c5-0352/2000 - 2000/0169 (cod)).
- mr president, i asked to speak because it seems to me that, in addition to supporting mrs korhola, who has done a great job, something deeper than the mere fact of environmental information should be defended.
secondly, i think that one of the great problems in the environment is that the principle of subsidiarity implies that the only protection of the environment is the responsibility of the citizens.
- mr president, i agree with what my colleague, mr jonas sjöstedt, has said, but i would like to defend mrs korhola's report - unanimously approved by the committee on the environment - particularly from the point of view of the committee on petitions and the role of citizens in the implementation of community law.
i am a member of the committee on petitions and i have to say that 40% of petitions come from citizens and non-governmental organisations who are defending compliance with community environmental law, and their work would be impossible if they did not have sufficient information and in due time.
the best environmental results are achieved when all concerned citizens are given the opportunity to participate in the process.
improving access to environmental information for the public leads to increased environmental awareness.
citizens must therefore be at the centre of environmental policy if we are to be able to cope with the changes needed to guarantee sustainable development.
the rio declaration already stressed the importance of public participation in the formulation and implementation of environmental policy.
without access to environmental information, it is difficult for citizens to participate and exert pressure.
that is why this proposal for an extended right to environmental information is so important.
in 1998, the member states signed the unece convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters - the aarhus convention.
the convention is a major step forward in implementing principle 10 of the rio declaration and in continuing the process of transparency initiated by directive 90/313/eec on the right of access to environmental information.
another main objective is to correct the shortcomings identified in the practical application of directive 90/313/eec, which was adopted in 1990. one of the key elements of the commission's proposal for a new directive is to provide a right to environmental information instead of free access to environmental information.
it also provides a broader definition of environmental information and sets a shorter deadline by which public authorities must disclose information.
it also provides clear definitions of the exceptions and proposes that public authorities may refuse to disclose environmental information only if it could harm private or public interests protected by the exceptions, and that public authorities should also actively provide environmental information to the public.
when public services are privatised, as they are in the united kingdom, it is up to the national authorities to ensure that environmental information is still made available to citizens.
the main objective is to establish the basic conditions for ensuring public access to environmental information.
finally, i would just like to say a few words about public access to environmental information held by the eu institutions, as this issue has also been touched upon in the debate.
a supplementary question to the commissioner: do you think that the main role of the commission in this area of setting up or helping large enterprises is to create a sufficiently efficient and competitive economic environment?
i mean, we think it is much easier to guarantee employment through companies that are in an environment that is efficient enough to allow competition with companies from other places than to maintain a restrictive social policy that is often against the interests of the workers themselves.
when it comes to the waste water in athens, the water supply, the gas pipeline, i don't think the truth is all black, red or green.
can the commission give a guarantee that this will not happen again and that any reprogramming, if necessary, will be focused on investments promoting sustainable development (in sectors such as energy, transport, biodiversity, tourism, agricultural production, human resources, etc.)?
i share your concern, mr president, to ensure respect for the environment, biodiversity and sustainable development within the framework of the principle of subsidiarity.
now, mr celli, as regards what was achieved at the end of the year, all assistance from the structural funds must normally be consistent with community policies and therefore respect the legislation in force, particularly in the field of the environment.
i can assure you that, for the period for which i am directly responsible, namely 2000 to 2006, the greatest vigilance will be exercised, together with the member states, on this environmental issue, which has always been, as far as i am concerned, one of my major political commitments.
(the sitting was suspended at 8 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is not long ago that the commission reopened the debate on the security of energy supply in the european union.
the green paper promoted by the commissioner is an important instrument for energy policy in the european union and sets out some of the priorities in this field.
among other things, it proposes decisive action on energy demand.
if we can improve energy efficiency by 2.5% or 1% as the commission proposes, we will have succeeded in adding another grain of sand to the energy policy objectives of respecting the environment, achieving a competitive market and increasing the security of energy supply.
in this connection, i can only congratulate the commission on its proposals on the promotion of renewable energy, energy efficiency, security of supply and biofuels, and the rapporteur, mr wijkman, on his references to future directives on building construction and cogeneration of heat and electricity, and i trust that the council will give the necessary impetus to all these proposals.
we do not want to give up this well-being, but we can make it more sustainable, especially in the construction and transport sectors.
it also has no impact on energy efficiency.
finally, it should be clear that improving energy efficiency does not reduce co2 emissions, but simply optimises them, since co2 emissions are only reduced by reducing the use of fossil fuels.
we are facing an extremely virulent strain and in environmental conditions that make us fear the worst.
it is therefore necessary to target aid to ensure the viability of farms which present the least risks to the environment and to the consumer and which are most necessary for the maintenance of the social fabric in rural areas, rather than reducing or eliminating aid.
question no 5 by mrs ulla margrethe sandbæk (h-0147/01) subject: the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'sand' in the title of the directive what initiatives does the council (development) intend to take with regard to the development of a coherent overall strategy to integrate the environmental dimension into its various policies, including a set of indicators and a timetable of action, as called for in the conclusions of the helsinki european council?
question no 6 by mr chris davies (h-0156/01) subject: sustainable development strategy of the council of ministers at the european council of heads of state or government in helsinki in december 1999, nine councils were reminded of the need to develop comprehensive strategies on sustainability and integration, including indicators and a timetable for implementation, by the european council in gothenburg in june 2001. could the president of the council indicate the state of play of the work done so far in the nine councils, what remains to be done in accordance with the helsinki mandate, how the state of play of the strategies of the nine councils will be made public by the gothenburg summit, and on what basis these will be judged?
i would point out that it is not entirely uncomplicated, but it is the presidency's firm objective that this overall strategy for integrating environmental considerations into the work of the various sectors should now also include a proper follow-up mechanism, so that it will be possible for everyone to follow up this work on an ongoing basis.
in the energy sector, for example, it is very clear what kind of indicators could be useful.
the commission's view is that we can share the fundamental criteria in the report, both the first and second paragraphs, which refer to the social market economy and an economy based on a democratic system, price stability, sustainable growth, subsidiarity, solidarity, etc., objectives which we fully share.
the commission continues to insist on the need to make further progress on these issues and, as you know, just yesterday the commission made new proposals to move forward with the liberalisation of the energy market.
we are also concerned about the problems of the long-term sustainability of public finances, which is one of the points which we do not think the report has stressed enough.
the problems linked to the ageing of the population will be one of the key issues and, of course, to deal with it we will have to take measures related to public debt and linked to the improvement of the labour market by achieving a higher activity rate, a higher employment rate and, in particular, of women and older workers, which can also help to counteract some of these effects, as will help reforms in the current social security systems consistent with employment and with a sustainability of the model.
- mr president, i will read a few paragraphs from a communication from the european commission which relates to the discussion which will take place in the environment committee on the sixth environmental action programme: 'a good part of the legislation and the rules necessary to achieve the objectives of water quality and use have already been established.
we are very concerned, commissioner, that directives such as the water framework directive, the habitat directive and the environmental impact directive as well as the birds directive may be breached.
these four directives are now the backbone of the forthcoming sixth environmental action programme.
– mr president, the water framework directive will protect all our waters and improve the quality of the environment, for example through environmental quality standards, mandatory participation by civil society and tackling pollution at source.
however it imposes a binding legal requirement that they should not harm the environment.
the directive points out the importance of integrating the protection and sustainable management of water into other community policy areas.
any water management measures must be accompanied by parallel plans on irrigation, forest resources and taking into account climate change.
we must pay particular attention to groundwater, preventing its over-exploitation, waste water treatment and the essential and necessary environmental impact studies, especially in territories like mine, where natural areas of special protection are the precious asset to be conserved.
it is also necessary that these plans should be framed within the community directives on water, natura, habitat, birds, etc., in conjunction with the national irrigation plans which should be compatible with the future revision of the common agricultural policy and rural development in order to deepen the necessary sustainable development.
we have the opportunity to make a sustainable, innovative and model plan.
to address the poverty in this region, the commission has in place development projects in southern and eastern kalimantan, which include support for sustainable management of tropical forests.
more fundamentally, the securities trading environment has undergone seismic shifts which pose new challenges for eu regulation.
a5-0095/2001 by mrs roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending for the seventh time council directive 76/768/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products (com (2000) 189 - c5-0244/2000 - 2000/0077 (cod))
- mr president, first of all i would like to point out that the correct version of amendment no 33, signed by myself and mrs müller, is the english one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
and some of the expenditure we have to make, for example to deal with surpluses, you have to ask yourself whether it is really being made in the right place, or whether it should not be made at some point in advance, to also enforce the objectives in the areas of consumer protection, environmental protection, animal and landscape protection and structural improvements in rural areas, for example in agriculture.
it would be completely counterproductive, in the crisis in which everyone is talking about reform, in which everyone is talking about more environmental protection, for example more landscape protection, for this programme to be cut back.
- a5-0099/2001 by mr folias, on section i of the general budget (sec (2000) 539 - c5-0312/2000 - 2000/2157 (dec)); - a5-0108/2001 by mrs van der laan, on the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (dublin) (c5-0686/2000 - 2000/2166 (dec)) and the european centre for the development of vocational training (thessaloniki) (c5-0687/2000 - 2000/2165 (dec)); the council also adopted a decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of south africa on the participation of the republic of south africa in the european union programme for research and technological development (erdf) and the european community action programme on the environment (eafrd).
- question no 31 by mrs marie anne isler béguin (h-0260/01) subject: non-polluting vehicles the third oil shock that has hit the european union in the last quarter raises a number of questions about the transport and energy policy of the european union, its consequences and its limited influence in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions.
are any proposals for patents on zero-pollution techniques being considered, and what has been the outcome?
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council on the subject of the protection of the environment.
for example, in the 'heat' and 'energy' projects we have supported the solution of transport problems in cities and there is also an experiment with fuel cell buses in various european cities.
europe can no longer afford to waste its resources by duplicating and failing to coordinate its activities.
- the proposal for this programme is based on vision 2020, which has three main objectives: to reduce noise, to ensure greater safety and to reduce pollution.
this russian decision is expected to have serious repercussions on the military détente climate in the whole baltic region as it implies a profound change in the military threat to several eu member states and a number of candidate countries.
and inequalities must also be overcome; there are still inequalities between member states and within member states themselves, and the rapporteur and the committee on the environment recall that these inequalities must be overcome, and they place great emphasis on the continuing training of medical professionals and health personnel, but also on health education and training for schoolchildren.
– mr president, i am very grateful to the rapporteur, professor trakatellis, and to the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and other committees involved for all their work on this important and ambitious programme which is a crucial element in the community's overall health strategy.
third, confronting the key underlying causes of ill-health related not only to personal lifestyles, but also to other key determinants: social, economic and environmental factors and so on.
for this reason, amendments nos 79, 99 and 102 in relation to protecting the rights of patients and setting up centres of excellence on environmental toxicology and on gene therapy and cloning are not acceptable; and whilst i agreed that the right of patients to simple, clear and scientifically valid information concerning their illness, is in itself a valuable objective, regrettably, the community has limited competences under article 152 of the ec treaty.
there are some outstanding issues: on sustainable development you can count on our full support; on the liberalization of the capital market, which we believe is necessary, you have supported the lamfalussy report and have proposed a way forward which does not provide for parliament to have the possibility of democratic control of the rules being drawn up.
the socialist group believes that the liberalization of services and energy and gas, in addition to its intrinsic value, raises a key question, namely the power relations in society and the economy.
it is important that we focus on the essentials and really allow the central issues of the development of the union to occupy our time and energy.
the commission also proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
but i believe that we can improve the scoreboard in two ways: firstly, by reinforcing, in the introduction to each revised version of the scoreboard at the end of each presidency, the political dimension of the review of progress made; the commission has also taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which will be published in the official journal of the european union.
the charter also contains a number of articles which express general political objectives, such as articles 37 and 38 on environmental and consumer protection.
once adopted by the council and the european parliament, it will provide a framework for sustainable production.
the following facts have been present in our discussions: a major commitment of kyoto is to reduce our emissions of polluting gases by 8% by the year 2010, whereas, if there is no change in the distribution between the different modes of transport, it has been predicted that in the transport sector, in that period and for those emissions, there would be an increase of 40%.
it has also been calculated that moving goods by rail requires four times less energy than by road.
trains can use a higher proportion of renewable energy.
i regret that the council is still examining at national level which intermodal terminals would be included in the european combined transport network and i welcome the amendment of specific project no 8 in the annex, concerning the former 'lisbon-valladolid motorway', by the new definition of 'multimodal link portugal-spain with the rest of europe', for the management of rail, road, sea and air connections on the three iberian corridors between galicia and portugal, between portugal and seville/andalusia and between irún (in the basque country) and portugal, which i hope will include the high-speed train, and that financial aid also reaches the so-called 'y' line in the basque country which, like any other railway, besides economic advantages, generates great environmental benefits.
in addition, the benefits of leguminous plants for biodiversity, the reduction of nitrogen fertiliser consumption and the positive effects on soil conservation should be duly valued.
in short, the study does not take into account any of the elements on which our agricultural policy should be based: food quality, environmental protection and development and sustainable development, because there is also no element in the study that tells us what an increase in these crops would mean in terms of creating more economic activity in agriculture, and in terms of their use and processing into livestock feed by the farmer himself, which would also mean a significant increase in income in the rural economy.
we therefore support the rapporteur's very relevant comments in this regard, as well as all his amendments and, in particular, those which insist on reminding the commission that this parliament believes that, if the commission is the one with the competence in the framework of regional fisheries organisations, it is also its political and financial responsibility to put in place the relevant measures, including, of course, control measures, where the european union is playing in the eyes of the world the credibility of its alleged commitment to the sustainability of resources.
- mr president, mrs myller is rapporteur on the committee on the environment for the european union's 6th environmental action programme, which is the environmental strategy for the next ten years.
it is true that later, in the discussion and debate, that reduction was less than we all thought, since the european environment agency proposed that instead of 8% compared with 1990, the reduction should be 30% if we are to go down the right path.
that is why i share with my green colleagues the two amendments they have tabled, namely that we must tell the united states that it is immoral not only not to comply with the kyoto protocol but to rely on the developing countries to tell them that they alone have to reduce pollution.
it is immoral, and i must say it loudly here, because if the average annual co2 emissions of a european is 10 tons, the average american is 24 tons, and the developing countries are well below the average.
this very high rate is due to a combination of very different causes: bad weather, long working hours with very intense rhythms, pay systems such as the so-called "a la part", which are not very homologated, the absence of collective bargaining, difficult working conditions, poor conditions for the ship's habitability, isolation, separation from the family and the social environment, distance from the fishing grounds, ageing of the fleet, etc.
the latest fao report on the state of fisheries and aquaculture in the world states that a safe working environment is not something that can be easily imposed and that measures to improve safety can only be effective if there is a willingness to put them into practice.
- mr president, although i am not in the same group as mr whitehead, i share his view on mrs roth-behrendt and if she has to have surgery tomorrow we too want her to recover because she is a bit the soul of the environment committee.
it is true that the problem of the consolidation of public finances, which has allowed us to make considerable progress, raises some problems of long-term sustainability and of the quality of public finances; on both points the commission essentially insists that progress must be made.
- the next item is the report (a5-0116/2001) by mr harbour, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the future generation of the internet: the need for an eu research initiative.
a factory with its often described problems of surplus, quality, health, environment and a huge financial mess.
i ask you to devote your energy and your rhetorical skills, if you have any, to convincing your friends to stop killing.
i should like to mention the setting of a reduced tar ceiling in cigarettes and the creation for the first time of a ceiling for nicotine and carbon monoxide.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0136/2001), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 95/53/ec laying down the principles governing the organization of official controls in the field of animal nutrition and council directives 70/524/eec, 96/25/ec and 1999/29/ec on animal nutrition (13724/1/2000 - c5-0047/2001 - 2000/0068 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs paulsen)
- thank you very much, mr whitehead.
– mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mrs paulsen and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for the broad support given to this commission proposal concerning controls on animal nutrition.
- mr president, in building a europe which respects the environment, it is a political and legislative priority to ensure that the business community is fully involved in the task of protecting the environment.
in this context, the directives we are dealing with today are essential legislative instruments which help to preserve our environment by encouraging companies in the sector to internalize the costs of certain environmental impacts and to take a committed position without thereby abandoning their market objectives.
the work of mr florenz is commendable and i cannot but congratulate him on it, because he has succeeded in drawing up proposals for directives which strike a balance between the interests of consumers, the environment and the companies in the sector, interests which are very difficult to combine.
it is clear that germany, for example, does not produce the same amount of waste as other countries, such as greece, portugal or spain.
as regards the exceptions to lead welds, i think they should be maintained, because it seems to me that the use of substitutes could create a greater environmental problem or risks to consumer safety.
- mr president, the proposal for a council and european parliament decision under discussion must be understood in the wider context of the water directive, with its immediate objective of limiting and reducing pollution of the european aquatic ecosystem by classifying 32 substances in the group of priority substances, of which only 11 are substances falling within the legal category of priority dangerous substances.
we all share the desire to eradicate water pollution as soon as possible and this requires a twofold strategy: on the international level, ratification of international commitments, especially the ospar and commps conventions, although we do not consider it appropriate to make any explicit reference to these agreements in the text of the proposal; on the member state level, ensuring that the commission is provided with the necessary means to know exactly the situation of our water bodies, so that a detailed and constant monitoring of the evolution of the quality of our waters can be carried out, comparable between states.
it is also important to encourage future eu member states to tackle pollution by moving closer to european targets, especially in those countries which share river basins with the european union.
finally, i would like to emphasize the exceptional circumstances of certain substances, such as cadmium and mercury, which cannot be completely eliminated at present, as amendment no 2 in the report of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy points out.
- mr president, commissioner, in the field of water policy, the final agreement of june 2000 provides for the commission to identify, among the dangerous substances, the priority dangerous substances, whose emissions, discharges or losses must cease or be progressively reduced within 20 years.
however, some issues remained of concern to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, the alternative rapporteurs and the commission itself.
and in this second reading we have tabled only eleven amendments, which were discussed in the committee on the environment, and which were adopted at the last sitting by a rather large majority, and which in the various informal meetings - there were many, and i have to thank the commission and the council for their interest in this report - we have tried to reduce.
mr president, i think it will not be difficult to reach agreement on the 11 amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
we therefore believe that by defending the proposal of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, we are also defending very important principles of the european union.
(es) madam president, i am very pleased that president prodi and the commission are giving priority to sustainable development.
however, i believe that there is a theme in sustainable development that is never discussed and which, in my view, is part of the european tradition, a theme that we should take into account: the man.
we always talk about the biodiversity of nature, but we do not consider that our programmes, in general, lack projects and lines of work on humans: the european union is a global player in the field of sustainable development, both in its natural environment and, above all, in the urban environment in which people live.
sustainability must take into account the fact that in the current world, there is no distinction between artificial and natural landscapes.
cities are an artificial landscape as important as the natural one, and we must take into account the fact that we cannot allow the destruction of our heritage, the destruction of cities, the destruction of the environment, without calculating the consequences that this entails for man.
the city is the scene of the greatest injustices, it is the environment we must take care of to prevent the creation of marginalization.
therefore, if we do not include the urban and historical environment, which have constituted the european identity, we will lose much of our personality.
i believe that there is an eradication of our society and that we must take into account the scenarios in which man lives, because that is where the greatest environmental problems arise, that is where the greatest cultural problems are created.
so we take care of this environment and we take into account that although biodiversity of life patterns and landscapes is important, i believe that the european union is at the moment moving away from sustainability in a big way, in the sense that it only massively finances giant projects, as happened with the urban project.
one of the principles of sustainability is to take care of the small, to take care of the minimum.
that, ladies and gentlemen, is what i am asking for sustainability.
- madam president, i am very pleased that mr prodi and the commission are giving priority to sustainable development.
i would like to say, however, that within sustainable development there is a subject which is never discussed and which, i believe, is part of the european tradition, a subject which we should take into account: man.
we are always talking about the biodiversity of nature, but we do not take into account that in our programmes, in general, there is a lack of projects and lines of work on the environment of man: both the natural environment and, above all, the urban environment, where man lives.
sustainability has to take into account that, in today's world, you cannot distinguish between artificial and natural scenarios.
cities are as important an artificial setting as the natural one, and we have to keep in mind that we cannot allow our heritage to be destroyed, cities to be destroyed, the environment to be destroyed, without considering the consequences that this has for man.
so let us take care of that environment and let us bear in mind that, although the biodiversity of life patterns and scenarios is important, i think that the european union is at the moment moving away from sustainability to a great extent, in the sense that only giant projects are massively financed, as has happened with the urban project.
one of the principles of sustainability is to cater to the small, cater to the minimal.
that, ladies and gentlemen, is what i ask for sustainability.
how do you intend to tackle the issue of sustainable development in your talks with mr putin?
will it deal with the question of energy saving?
will it deal with the new, delicate energy exploitation of the arctic regions?
will it report on the extent to which russia has fulfilled commitments made at the previous eu-russia summit, where, among other things, a promise was made to protect the environment in the gulf of finland in conjunction with the work on the port of primorsk?
does the commission intend to require russia to ratify the esbo convention on environmental impact assessment in transnational contexts?
secondly, mr prodi, yesterday in the committee we voted until midnight on the sixth environmental action programme, which is the european union's environmental strategy for the next ten years.
i am interested in this as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions.
the serious problem we face is not the lack of environmental legislation: there is, in fact, an extraordinary environmental legislation.
secondly, mr prodi, yesterday we were voting in committee until midnight on the sixth environmental action programme, which is the european union's strategy for the environment for the next ten years.
it is something which concerns me as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and as an opinion rapporteur for the committee on petitions.
the serious problem we are facing is not a lack of environmental legislation: there is extraordinary environmental legislation.
but without such action, the stock will not grow back to a size that would allow a sustainable fishery.
reforestation is limited, leading to constant deterioration of the natural environment, desertification and the disappearance of vital 'green lungs', especially around greece's urban areas.
what a waste.
we want, and i do not need to say it again, sustainable development and the conservation of resources.
- mr president, commissioner, it is now one and a half years since the tragic accident of the erika, which caused a real environmental disaster off the french coast near the calais pass.
i think they want more agile and more effective responses to issues which affect not only people but, as in this case, also the environment, animals and plants.
the very extensive international safety regulations governing maritime transport today have made it possible to reduce accidents and pollution drastically, and the measures we are now discussing demonstrate the commitment of our institutions to strengthening the safety of ships and the protection of the marine environment.
the need or the desirability of a modal shift towards short sea shipping, which could be an element of a community strategy to meet the kyoto obligations, has also been discussed because of its greater respect for the environment; recent studies indicate that shipping is responsible for only 12% of total discharges to the sea or that it is the most energy efficient and that, compared with the land transport structures, which are heavily saturated in developed countries - and especially in europe - the sea is a free, free and far from saturated infrastructure.
fortunately, both because of the extensive international safety regulations and the greater sense of purpose and awareness that regulate maritime transport today, accidents and pollution have been greatly reduced.
and i think that the measures envisaged today demonstrate the commitment of our institutions to take on and to strengthen ship safety and the protection of the marine environment, and for that the commission and the vice-president, who have tabled six legislative proposals in less than a year, should be congratulated.
the first manifestation of this has been the refusal of the united states to ratify the kyoto agreement on climate change.
- the next item is the report (a5-0147/2001) by mr cercas, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the commission communication entitled 'the future of social protection in the long term: secure and sustainable pensions' (com (2000) 622 - c5-0011/2001 - 2001/2003 (cos))
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
it is therefore a european problem and the sustainability of pensions is the bet for the next generation.
there is a set of policies which, if achieved at european level, will facilitate and enhance the sustainability of pensions.
but let us not forget that, under the treaty, we are obliged, we have a specific objective, to ensure a high level of social protection and sustainable, non-inflationary economic growth.
this study will analyse all the problems per member state and make proposals on the basic principles for sustainable systems.
ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the fact that we have opened this chapter and given a european dimension to the pension issue will support and help governments in all member states in particular to achieve reforms which will be sustainable, taking account of the economic and, above all, the social dimension.
question no 12 by mr alexandros alavanos (h-0352/01) subject: statements by the president of the united states on the kyoto protocol the president of the united states has made statements making it clear that the united states will not abide by the kyoto protocol, which requires them to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, on the grounds that the protocol is not in the economic interests of the united states.
finally, with regard to the aid for the production of olive oil, the purpose of which is to ensure good environmental management of the by-products of the olive oil mills, we believe that this aid should be calculated on the basis of the olive oil actually produced and not on the basis of a slightly higher rate, as is being done.
we are convinced of the environmental value of the olive grove as a preserver of biodiversity and a brake on the advance of desertification, and we know this, above all, those of us who live there.
the development of programmes to improve the environmental impact of the olive grove should therefore take into account aspects relating to the reuse of olive tree pruning for industrial use, both of the wood and of the leaf, maximising the resources of the crop to 100%.
and we are in favour of a ban on this because we believe that it is good for democracy and transparency, because it is not a philanthropic activity, it is always asking for something in return, and we need only look at what president bush is proposing in the field of energy.
at the same time, we know that much remains to be done in the field of fair and free trade, the fight for human rights and the work on environmental issues.
we sincerely believe that the new agricultural policy, based on the principles of multifunctionality and sustainability, requires and requires codecision in order to achieve the greater democratic legitimacy, greater transparency and also - of course - greater coherence in the agricultural policy that european society is demanding.
- mr president, how do we preserve our resources, win in environmental health and social welfare in a balanced way, without hurting any of the three pillars of sustainable development?
the first step is to achieve a decoupling between economic growth and the intensity in the use of resources, and in the production of undesirable effects such as pollution.
- mr president, we share with the rapporteur and the commission the priority objectives of this programme, which is very important and which will shape the european union's environmental policy over the next ten years.
these priority objectives are now in the spotlight every day, and they are the subject of daily press coverage: climate change, the promotion and preservation of biodiversity, sustainable management of resources and the protection of health and the environment.
as the rapporteur said, environmental policies must be integrated into other policies: agriculture, transport, energy.
and more sustainable production and consumption models.
nitrate pollution).
the first fundamental issue, therefore, is compliance with environmental legislation.
we in the committee on petitions find that of the 1100 to 1200 petitions that are registered in this committee every year, 40% concern the protection of the natural environment.
this shows that not only environmental groups, but also platforms of ordinary citizens have a huge interest in preserving the environment in which they live and are the ones who denounce.
we had a debate in the committee on the environment a few months ago on the fact that while there is excellent environmental legislation in the european union, it is not being complied with.
we are proposing here some amendments to penalize those who do not use the structural funds and the cohesion fund for projects which preserve the environment.
we also firmly believe that one of the best european policies in the history of europe is environmental policy.
we have therefore introduced initiatives on, for example, the urban environment, the landscape, sustainable culture, animal feeding and the control of the food chain, a subject on which we would have insisted much more if the document had been drawn up by now.
amendment no 68, for example, if it were directly applied, would oblige any farmer in the mountains who had livestock that caused problems for the environment to take out liability insurance.
the same applies to an indiscriminate tax on hydrocarbons or on energy, which can penalise the weakest sections of the population, who need two hours to get to work because they live on the outskirts of cities.
- i would like to justify the epp group's negative vote on the myller report by saying that we fully support the commission's environmental action plan and programme.
the commission has drawn up a splendid, very balanced, scientific programme, with a great sense of the future, which was intended to be a document that would reach johannesburg with all the dignity of europe, proclaiming a viable, feasible, accessible to the citizens environmental policy, capable of being applied and translated into reality.
we as a group, to show even our will, have widened the usual horizon of the environment, we have added very clear support for the urban environment, which did not exist before, we have increased interest in the landscape and the rural environment, we have also supported municipal participation, which was not included in the proposal, and we have also supported public health with great enthusiasm.
the other objectives, such as the protection of the environment, the protection and welfare of animals and plants, are all very commendable, commissioner, but if they do not affect food safety there are already other legislation which deals with or can deal with it.
- commissioner, ozone concentrations in the atmosphere are a serious problem, not only for the environment but also for public health, as they have an impact on the health of citizens, with a particular impact on the population at risk such as children and the elderly, causing allergies and cardio-respiratory difficulties, among other manifestations.
ozone concentrations are affected very unevenly in the member states.
the first important result of this directive is that it will finally encourage the member states to pay more attention to the problem of tropospheric ozone, by strengthening the study and control of it; secondly, it establishes the obligation to draw up short- and long-term action plans and to improve early warning systems and information to the public.
however, we cannot ignore the current difficulties in ensuring full control of tropospheric ozone concentrations and therefore strict compliance at all times with the values and deadlines set.
the general trend observed is the increasing deterioration of leafy species such as beech and oak, an intense defoliation due to the severity of air pollution, mainly in central europe, and which also causes soil acidification.
atmospheric deposits cause serious concentrations of nitrates in the soil and increase the risk of drinking water pollution, thus threatening the filter function of water resources in forest soils.
the budget for this regulation in the commission's proposal is reduced from eur 40 million for the first five-year period to eur 34 million for the second five-year period, from 1997 to 2001. the committee on the environment again proposes to increase the budgetary allocation to eur 44 million, in line with the increase in the area under trees and the cost of living.
the amendments therefore propose an increase in the budget to 77 million euro, which i believe is justified and which we must not renounce in any way, since the protection of the landscape, nature, biodiversity, traditional cultures and multifunctional activities and, in short, what we all see when we close our eyes and think of the forest is at stake.
in this area, particular attention must be paid to properly weighing the different tasks of action in the forest environment: prevention, improvement, conservation and restoration of burned areas and afforestation.
but i would like to say that i consider it a failure that the financial allocation for the regulation on the protection of community forests against fires is reduced from 70 million to 49.4 million euro, and that the regulation on air pollution is reduced from 40 million euro to 35.4 million euro.
experts from france, italy, greece, spain, morocco and tunisia met last week at the university of valencia and in their conclusions stressed that 40% - almost half of the mediterranean arc - is threatened by desertification, which can also be aggravated by fires, erosion, pests and climate change; that the average of burned land is increasing by three thousand hectares each year, and that to combat this problem they will - they said, with hope - raise these conclusions to the fao and the european union, as they said that prevention policies are necessary.
air pollution, along with other kinds of problems, also needs investment to solve.
i would particularly like to highlight the progress made in the field of sustainable development and in the social field, one of which, which is very important, was the achievement of a directive on information and participation of workers after 20 years.
we must not hide the profound differences we have at the moment, not only on the value of international commitments at world level but also on the fight against such an important element as climate change.
the very extensive international safety regulations governing maritime transport today have made it possible to reduce accidents and pollution drastically.
the measures we are discussing today and those we discussed just a month ago, the erika i, demonstrate the commitment of our institutions to strengthening the safety of ships and the protection of the marine environment.
it is therefore inevitable that some maritime accidents or pollution incidents will occur sporadically and, because of their spectacular nature, receive extensive media coverage.
i congratulate the rapporteurs, mr sterckx, mr esclopé and mr mastorakis, on their excellent work on maritime safety, oil pollution compensation and the creation of a maritime safety agency.
i personally believe that the creation of this agency will demonstrate to public opinion the great interest of our institutions in preventing future accidents and pollution, as well as the need to raise safety levels on our seas.
the aim was to promote sustainable development and to strengthen the productive and job-creating sectors.
article 16 (1) (b) of the fifg regulation allows for the financing of the temporary cessation of fishing activities in the event of non-renewal of a fishing agreement for a period of six months, renewable for a further six months, following the submission of a conversion plan.
all this is done in the spirit of increasing the competitiveness of the outermost regions, their businesses and employment, as well as respect for the environment and recognition of the strategic nature of the agricultural sector.
- mr president, it is important that we have been able to approve today in the european parliament, and in the first reading, the so-called erika ii package, a name which reminds us of the sad case of the ship which broke up at the end of 1999, a year and a half ago, causing a great tide and important consequences on the coasts of north-west france and its marine environment.
with this second package, the european commission has proposed two regulations for the establishment of a european maritime agency and a fund for compensation for damage caused to european waters by oil pollution, as well as the creation of a community system for monitoring and information on maritime traffic.
i hope, mr president, that this second package on maritime safety will have better luck than the first and can be accepted by the council of transport ministers, so that it can enter into force quickly and that, through it, human lives and the environment can be better protected.
the logic of open wounds for a long time is, in any case, unjustifiable, and the sooner it is put to rest, the sooner guatemala can move towards democracy, respect for the rule of law, development, peace and social improvement that will lead to the achievement of prosperity and establish the climate of coexistence and respect that we so desire for central america and for guatemala.
- mr president, community cooperation in the field of civil protection began in 1985 with two programmes: one lasting two years - 1998-1999 - and the other running until 2004. in recent years, disasters, often misnamed natural disasters, have had serious consequences for people, the environment, natural heritage and cultural heritage.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i think it is worth remembering that, according to the un intergovernmental panel on climate change, there is already evidence that if the current trends in increasing greenhouse gas emissions are not corrected, these catastrophes - floods, droughts, storms and so on - will become more and more common.
these are the elements on which this proposal is based in order to achieve the objectives of protecting citizens, the environment, natural resources and cultural resources.
in any case, it seems clear to us that this mechanism will be very useful, since it can coordinate and put into effect all the resources at our disposal in europe in the event of clear emergencies, such as those which have occurred in recent years - i remember very well what happened in the doñana national park, when a toxic waste raft broke, flooding a river and a huge meadow, and causing the loss of more than 5 000 farmers' jobs.
fresh meat from vaccinated animals carries viruses, and could infect healthy animals that feed on the animal's waste.
these two amendments go a little further than the rapporteur's spirit would allow, since the use of waste has been prohibited in my country for more than 20 years.
the nut sector is of great importance from a social and environmental point of view in the european union, in the southern countries (spain, italy, greece, portugal and france), because there are many small plantations which create a large number of jobs and which, moreover, have an important and immediate environmental role.
they provide real support that has not existed until now and that allows them to increase, not production, but the already high levels of food quality and safety, as well as solving the environmental problems they suffer.
- the commission's statement on the international civil aviation organisation (icao) is included on the agenda: air transport and the environment.
the european union must be at the forefront of a series of measures which are not only related to the subject of this declaration on air transport and the environment, but also to its impact on the quality of life of the citizens of the european union.
a second problem which i think is of concern is that of gas emissions.
there is a lot of talk about the greenhouse effect, caused by co2, when air transport can reduce a much more powerful greenhouse effect by two to four times; i think this is significant enough to make our position on this matter clear and decisive.
i believe that sensible, concrete and absolutely effective measures are needed, which will really improve the environment and the quality of life.
what i want is to reach an agreement with the united states that will enable us to achieve the objective we all have, which is to reduce noise emissions around our airports.
a key point of the presidency has been the formulation of sustainable development, which has not only been set out as a strategy for the future but also by clearly and firmly advocating the ratification of the kyoto agreements, which are not just a euro-american issue but a matter which affects all of humanity, as the prime minister of sweden and i had the opportunity to see at the council of the socialist international last week in lisbon.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
these are the principles we want to see incorporated in our environmental agenda in the round, and in particular everything that revolves around the precautionary principle.
this view has been expressed in the commission communication on the introduction of third generation mobile communications in the european union that was adopted on 20 march 2001. certain forms of networking infrastructure sharing, notably site and mast sharing, could greatly contribute to reducing the environmental impact of network deployment.
the commission clearly welcomes this intention as ensuring coherence between the bank's objectives in rolling out projects in accordance with its mandate, particularly following the lisbon european council and community policy in a liberalised environment.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, renewable energies are not the panacea for reducing co2 emissions or for solving the energy dependence of third countries, but they can help to alleviate these problems more and more as they become competitive.
this directive for the promotion of renewable energies is a bet on the future and an investment in the environment.
it is important that electricity from renewable energy sources is given priority for access to the electricity grid and that they are not discriminated against in the charging of transmission and distribution tariffs, particularly in peripheral regions.
the need for this directive is justified by the different degree of competitiveness which still exists between renewable and conventional energy sources and by the external costs avoided by this type of technology.
- mr president, i think it is fair to congratulate mrs rothe on the excellent work she has done on this report and, above all, on the spirit of creativity and consensus she has shown in its production, trying to avoid conciliation, which would have done the sector a disservice, given the urgent need for a directive in this important area of renewable energy.
i think in all energy-related matters, we must be aware that we either improve our sources, or we render planet earth uninhabitable in a few years.
it is essential that we ensure that such sources are supported for a considerable period, thus enabling our industry to invest decisively and in the long term in this energy alternative.
in this connection, ensuring a stable framework for energy from renewable sources, within the horizon proposed by the report - although a longer time frame would have been desirable - is a proposal that we can and must all support.
as for the targets we have set ourselves, although we should have been more ambitious, i think that the target of 12% of energy being renewable by 2010 is something we should be scaling up, but in principle it is a good place to start.
it is also essential that in the future, when this directive is amended and the sector is more established, we set binding targets for each member state and thus demonstrate that the european union also takes its commitments on the environment seriously.
in short, i think it is essential and urgent that a european agreement be reached to support this type of energy source.
so, on a principle of solidarity, we must leave behind a much more habitable world, and for that future, all these renewable energies are essential.
the other - perhaps a little more controversial - stated that 'the charter of fundamental rights of the european union should be supplemented by binding rights as important as the right to work, housing, minimum income, the right to a healthy environment or the right to vote of third country nationals who have resided for five years in the union, as well as the extension of civil rights to immigrants who come to europe in search of a dignified life'.
the proof is that more than 1400 citizens in europe send petitions to this committee every year, relating to the recognition of qualifications, free movement, the right of immigrants and the right to a healthy and healthy environment.
- mr president, given the short time i have, i shall not waste a second on rhetoric or demagogy and will therefore concentrate on matters which, from my point of view, are more interesting.
- the next item is the joint debate on oral questions b5-0327/2001 and b5-0328/2001 by mrs jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, to the council and the commission on the commission's strategy for the bonn conference on climate change.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the european union is disappointed and dissatisfied with the attitude of the united states towards the kyoto commitments, the european parliament must clearly reaffirm and reinforce its commitment to making progress in reducing co2 emissions by ratifying the measures proposed in the protocol.
after agreeing in 1997 to an international strategy to reduce polluting emissions, we cannot accept such a drastic and important change in the approach to the situation, giving rise to valid arguments which, under a scientific veneer, seek to delay the intensity and strength of concrete actions over time.
i also believe that this motion for a resolution is a necessary gesture by the european parliament towards the member states themselves as an expression of the renewed political will in each of them to fight climate change and to step up the development of the mechanisms necessary for ratification of the protocol.
at the next climate summit in bonn, member states will have to respond to the key issues that were left unresolved in the hague.
that is why, in order to take the next step in negotiating with other countries a rapid ratification of the protocol, it is so important that this parliament wholeheartedly supports this proposal, renewing, as i have said, the european union's willingness to take a leading role in the world environment and as a gesture to the member states, so that they do not forget or delay in implementing at national level the measures necessary to ratify the protocol.
(the sitting was suspended at 7.40 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- the next item is the report (a5-0218/2001) by mr callanan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to pleasure boats.
– mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr callanan and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for this comprehensive report.
engine noise, air and water pollution are becoming an increasingly common irritant in recreational activities.
i recently read in the press that, in the past, no attention was paid to research and technology on noise pollution and that is the reason for the delays in development.
while exhaust emissions from recreational craft are relatively small in comparison to the total amount of pollution in the environment, the effect of pollution is amplified by the way recreational craft are used.
noise pollution has been targeted, because motor boats are often used in areas where people go to relax.
the proposed legislation therefore seeks to avoid fragmentation of the internal market and at the same time to ensure a high level of health, safety, and environmental consumer protection.
the commission proposal is a good example of synergy between environment and industrial policies contributing to sustainable development.
comparable legislation exists in the united states on exhaust emissions from recreational out-board engines.
the environmental protection agency is currently preparing legislation to cover recreational in-board and stern drive engines.
mr callanan and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy are to be congratulated for the amendments which aim to simplify the noise-testing procedures, produce the conformity assessment costs for smes and clarify requirements in the case of replacement engines.
i am convinced that further work in close cooperation with the european parliament, the council and the commission, will lead to a balanced solution offering a clear benefit for the environment and the internal market, while minimising additional burdens to smes.
(the sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
- mr president, we have just approved the report by my colleague, mrs patricia mckenna, and i must admit that a good text has been produced, which covers in detail all the circumstances and problems affecting our coastal areas, both in their geographical, climatic, environmental and biodiversity dimensions and in their economic, social, cultural and recreational aspects.
i am only missing a clearer and more committed reference to tourist agglomerations and, above all, to the numerous illegal buildings which have been built in a speculative manner on many coasts of the spanish state - and also of other states - which represent a clear urban aggression and a threat to the environmental balance.
i would like to stress that the content of these rights must also relate to training, lifelong learning, health and safety, equal opportunities, the environment and the integration of young people into the workforce.
- mr president, i was interested in speaking in this debate on compliance with community law because, as head of the committee on the environment and the committee on petitions, i am aware of the failure to comply with community law, particularly, as the previous speakers have said, in the social and environmental fields.
it is true, as my spanish colleague has said, that only 71% of the directives have been poorly transposed in the social field, but it is even truer that in the commission, in environmental matters, there is not only poor transposition but a flagrant failure to comply, which is the worst: the lack of implementation.
we are seeing this every day in the committee on petitions, because this is the first of the infringements: 40% of the infringements which citizens report to the committee on petitions are related to the environment.
as mr koukiadis rightly says in his report, the right to petition is the paramount principle of the recognition of european citizenship and we must therefore be concerned about this repeated failure to comply with the social and environmental aspects, which are so closely linked to the rights of european citizenship.
we must also call for progress in environmental protection and, above all, for the commitments made so far to be respected with regard to the closure, within certain deadlines, of units 1 to 4 of the kozloduy nuclear power station.
however, there will be a need to work intensively on the incorporation of the acquis communautaire, especially in the area of environmental compliance, where there are significant shortcomings in the areas of waste management and water quality and management.
part one
- question no 37 by mr gerard collins (h-0602/01): subject: considerable potential of the waste market as the amount of waste produced in the european union is some 1 300 million tonnes per year, and total waste production increased by about 15% between 1995 and 1998, waste management represents a considerable market for the member states, even without taking into account the potential of the market after enlargement.
– mr president, as mr collins so rightly points out, waste management is a huge market.
indeed, it is the biggest environmental market, accounting each year for around eur 44 billion and 0.5 to 0.6% of community gdp.
moreover, companies whose primary activity is waste management employ between 200 000 and 400 000 people.
in terms of new initiatives, the commission is currently in the process of developing several that will highlight the potential of the waste market.
first, the sixth environmental action programme in the waste field; this aims to decouple degeneration of waste from economic growth.
it announces that the commission will come forward with thematic strategies on both the sustainable use of resources and on recycling.
secondly, in addition to the aforementioned thematic strategies, the commission intends to propose legislative initiatives addressing specific problems such as batteries and packaging waste.
together with legislation on electronic waste and end-of-life vehicles, these initiatives should further boost the waste management markets.
thirdly, following the gothenburg european council, the commission is in the process of preparing a report on how environmental technology can promote growth and employment.
finally, the integrated product policy will address issues dealing with design, manufacturing, use and disposal across the whole life cycle of a product and will therefore impact upon waste generation.
the commission can play its role by keeping waste management issues high on the community policy agenda and providing high quality information.
the environment is difficult, politically, and in every other sense of the word.
– thank you for inviting me to report to this house on the climate change conference in july.
the eu's commitment to bring the kyoto protocol into force before the world summit on sustainable development – rio+10 – in september this year was shared by many other parties.
the agreement struck in bonn indeed prevented an unravelling of the international efforts to combat climate change following the failure of the conference in the hague and the announcement by president bush that the united states will not support the kyoto protocol.
this would have thrown the international efforts to establish an effective international framework for combating climate change into disarray.
entry into force requires ratification by 55 parties representing at least 55% of the co2 emissions in 1990 of the industrialised countries.
this is despite the fact that russia will benefit economically from the kyoto protocol and the establishment of an international emissions trading system as it will be in a position to sell emission credits due to its generous emissions targets.
both countries now have a major responsibility in determining whether or not the international community takes an important step in combating climate change.
these concessions relate mainly to a generous counting of carbon zincs towards industrialised countries' emissions targets and, on the last night of the negotiations, to the legally binding character of the compliance regime.
nonetheless, given that emissions have increased in most industrialised countries since 1990 a significant emission reduction effort in those countries is still required.
once implemented the kyoto protocol will have a more elaborate and stringent compliance system than any other multilateral environmental agreement so far.
the agreement includes a declaration by the eu and a number of other countries of a funding package of eur 450 million per year by 2005 for capacity building, technology transfer and adaptation to climate change for developing countries.
the main progress of the kyoto protocol is, in any case, to establish the architecture and general rules of an international framework on climate change: for example, binding emission targets, the flexible mechanisms for achieving those targets, a compliance regime, support to developing countries on which further decisions can build.
besides its importance in addressing one of the biggest global challenges – climate change – the kyoto protocol will establish a new major international market for emissions rights among industrialised countries.
this will include a council decision on the burden sharing among the member states of the communities, overall a 8% emission reduction target on the basis of the political agreement of the environment council of 16 june 1998; secondly, a communication on a cost-effective implementation strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the eu based on the final report of the commission's european climate change programme, the eccp; thirdly, a proposal for a framework directive on an eu-wide emission trading scheme as a core element in a cost-effective kyoto implementation strategy.
i would like to express my appreciation for the ongoing support of the european parliament for the eu's position in the international climate negotiations and your continuing interest in this issue.
- commissioner, if we measure what we achieved in bonn by what we wanted to achieve five years ago in terms of climate change, the result is weak and poor.
i also think it is a good thing that nuclear energy has been excluded as an alternative to reducing greenhouse gases.
we have made no secret of our reticence in relation to emissions trading and control or the use of sinks.
we are particularly concerned that the report by the european environment agency says that if no decisions are taken immediately, emissions will have increased by 6% by 2010. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of the member states.
it is imperative that we ratify the protocol and go further in reducing emissions than is provided for in the agreement.
the dossier on passenger protection is, along with the dossier on the single sky, safety and environmental protection, an important dossier for air transport, for passengers and also for the image of european construction in the eyes of the citizens.
- madam president, if there is one thing that has characterized the preparation of this report on terrorism, it is not only the rigour and the expertise of the rapporteur, whom i would like to congratulate, our dear colleague mr watson, but also the willingness and the understanding of almost all the political groups in this house to reflect not only the rejection and condemnation of terrorism, its environment and the means it uses, but also to agree on the legal instruments that we must have at european level to combat and prosecute the crimes of terrorist activity and organized crime.
question no 7 by mr gerard collins (h-0601/01) subject: shannon airport as the european union's headquarters for response to natural or ecological emergencies at its meeting on 28 and 29 may 2001, the council agreed to improve and coordinate the european union's civil protection response to major natural, technological, radiological or ecological emergencies by establishing a common emergency communication system, common training and a rapid mobilisation system for assessment/coordination and response teams.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 june 2001 the council gave its political agreement to a common position on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the sixth action programme on the environment.
the text, the final version of which has been formally adopted and will be sent to parliament for second reading at the end of this month or the beginning of next, shows that the council intends to give strong support to renewable energies.
- according to the information provided to the commission and its competent services and also received by the council, olive oil from olive waste was withdrawn from the market in spain after the spanish government had activated the system for the rapid exchange of information in emergency situations on 4 july 2001 because polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs) had been found in the oil.
- the next item is the report (a5-0271/2001) by mrs ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the restriction of the placing on the market and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations.
it poses a risk to the environment, is bioaccumulating and has been found in human breast milk.
i would stress that the proposal will not result in greater risks from fires or greater risks to the environment.
the proposed directive provides not only for the protection of the environment, of consumers’ and workers’ health but would also preserve the internal market.
the commission can accept in principle to delete the derogation on pentabde in concentrations of less than 5% in technical grade octabde from the ban (first part of amendment no 2 and amendment no 5 of the environment committee) as new information from producers indicates that octabde can be produced without pentabde.
- the next item is the report (a5-0272/2001) by mr nisticò, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the quality and safety standards for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components.
i work a lot in the committee on petitions on environmental problems; that is normal, because i also work in the committee on the environment, and what sometimes happens with environmental problems is that if it takes too long to give an answer, the decisions taken in the country that gave rise to the petition are already irreversible for the natural environment and the petitioners lose their patience.
the use of this fruit supposes and makes possible the production of a healthy product of high quality and food safety for the consumer, as well as the absorption of surplus agricultural raw materials, which avoids a great deterioration and environmental pollution.
- mr president, i shall not waste any of the minute i have to convince the honourable members of the very serious consequences of the sequence of natural disasters which have occurred in central america.
i'll just waste some of my time saying that that had short-term consequences.
to put it very briefly, 1.5 million people are hungry in the region, not to mention the long-term consequences for sustainable development and climate change.
secondly, that it should take action to accelerate or promote a sustainable development policy in the field of agricultural development, to prevent drought and the long-term consequences i have mentioned above.
only by investing in sustainable development in the most vulnerable areas of the world will we be able to prevent and mitigate as far as possible the effects of natural disasters, because we will have invested our aid and our resources in the backbone and strengthening of the population, we will have made them stronger to withstand the consequences of some phenomena that even we, the first world, cannot avoid.
i believe that we must provide two types of aid: immediate aid, to prevent hunger, and longer-term aid, to work towards sustainable development, because the intergovernmental panel on climate change believes that, increasingly, earthquakes, floods and droughts are going to be commonplace, and this precisely in the poorest part of the world, where it can bear them the worst.
and in the service of each of these priorities, there could be a financial instrument, some financial instruments in the service of some strong objectives that you call your wishes: helping regions with sustainable natural handicaps, helping urban policy, helping cross-border cooperation.
in contrast, in recent years the space between london, paris and hamburg has been strengthened, a large central region which, occupying only one seventh of europe's surface, has one third of the population and enjoys almost half of total economic income, in an urban concentration and employment that endangers the european union's own sustainable development.
the aid has been used to set up infrastructure and transport projects and environmental projects.
the balance between railway and road infrastructure investment in the environment has come close to the parliament's recommendation.
secondly, the balance, which i also want, as do you, between transport investment and environmental investment.
finally, as regards evaluation and monitoring, as you know, the ex ante, mid-term and ex post evaluation exercise has been fully integrated into the programming cycle for the new period 2000-06. the commission has just launched the ex post evaluation exercise for objectives i and ii for the period 1994-99, as well as the thematic evaluations on the information society, sustainable development and small and mediumsized enterprises.
i regret that in the version of the sixth environmental action programme which has come to us from the council, and on which we made proposals on the urban environment and inhabited areas, certain aspects which our group considers important have been omitted.
we believe that it is urgent to establish environmental strategies, to launch risk studies, including on industrial sites, to create specific industrial areas away from cities, to penalize those builders or those municipalities that allow themselves to build anything and everything and, of course, to set up risk indicators that are incorporated into a european policy.
- mr president, noise pollution is a reality, and it is increasing in most countries of the european union.
the mediterranean countries are noisier in this sense, we have a climate that allows us to be outdoors, and in this sense, 8 p.m. is for us an hour of social exchange, of being outdoors and professionally active.
i would like to begin by thanking mr lange and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for a comprehensive and well-covered report.
the emissions of air pollutants from normal motor vehicles have been regulated within the european union for more than three decades.
as a result, emissions are now less than 10 percent of what they were before we put these limits in place.
consequently, the relative importance of other emissions has increased.
the proposal we are discussing today concerns emissions from engines used in lawn mowers, chainsaws, leaf blowers, pumps, generators and similar equipment.
although the statistics are somewhat incomplete, it seems that these machines account for about 10 to 15% of total hydrocarbon emissions in the community.
these emissions contribute to ozone formation, which is one of our hitherto unsolved air pollution problems.
it is obvious that we must do something about the emissions from these types of machines.
the commission has found that the harmonisation of legislation has been an important element in facilitating the rapid introduction of legislation, provided, of course, that this can be achieved with a high level of environmental ambition.
we believe that it meets the environmental needs well and it has also had a major influence on the formulation of our proposal.
in my view, the commission's proposal is a great example of a 'win/win' situation in that we are meeting the needs of industry while, by not having to split up industry's resources on different legislation, we have achieved environmental gains that would not otherwise have been possible.
in order to achieve the necessary environmental impact, it is important not to exclude products that could actually meet the requirements.
through averaging and banking, we have introduced a flexible system that puts the administrative burden on the producers who want to use it, a system that has a good environmental impact.
on the other hand, if the possibility of exempting certain products is used, there is a risk of drastically reducing the environmental impact, since these exemptions are not compensated, as is the case with the averaging and banking system.
at the same time, i would like to emphasize that the important thing is not the averaging and banking system as such, but the flexibility, the harmonization and the environmental benefits that the system brings.
exemptions for certain types of equipment should therefore only be accepted after a careful analysis of the environmental and other consequences.
the commission is prepared to study the need for further legislation in this area, especially with regard to particulate emissions from two-stroke engines, and would like to coordinate this with the corresponding request concerning particulate emissions from motorcycles and mopeds.
the commission can accept, or in principle accept, amendments nos 1, 10, 11, 13, 14, 18 to 28 and amendment no 30. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 12, 15 and 17, but is open to considering solutions that can achieve flexibility, harmonisation and environmental gains.
finally, i have taken note with particular interest of your request that environmental considerations should be given priority in the operations of this coal and steel research fund.
i am pleased to say that current research projects financed under the ecsc treaty already put much emphasis on cleaner technologies, energy saving and the protection of the environment in both the coal and steel sectors.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
we are talking about costs such as congestion, accidents or some obviously definable and quantifiable environmental costs.
in addition, in that proposal we will introduce the possibility that in some cases - i repeat, not as a usual system, but in some exceptional cases, such as the brenner tunnel or some large projects involving very costly works which, in addition, have a strong environmental impact that must be reduced to the maximum - the so-called swiss model can also be applied in the european union, that is to say that the tolls, or part of a toll, of an existing infrastructure can be used to create a fund to finance the construction of alternative railway infrastructure.
secondly, the environmental impact.
in your 1999 appearance, at your hearing as a candidate for commissioner, you said that you would pay close attention to the environmental impact.
does it intend to maintain this level in these projects and, of course, not be mechanically subject to the will of the states, which usually have really harmful effects on the environment in some of their aspects?
as for the environmental impact, i stand by my words.
we have prepared all this in agreement with mrs wallström's office and the commission's directorate-general for the environment and we have agreed that we will continue to work together on its development and promotion.
in the present situation, given the climate we are living in, the commission does not think it is appropriate, or even helpful, to make any further comment on this situation, since it is the choice of the governments of the nationals concerned, but we know, of course, that both the commission and the european union states as a whole will continue to follow developments carefully and attentively.
question no 36 by mr gary titley, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology (h-0714/01) subject: ignalina nuclear power station (lithuania) what is the commission's present position on the closure of reactor ii at the ignalina nuclear power station in lithuania?
as a result of studies carried out much earlier, in the early 1990s, a list of nuclear power stations has been drawn up, as you suggested: these nuclear power stations, which the european union considers to be non-renewable, that is to say, that cannot be made safe, are located in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria.
the commission is aware of the importance of a proper definition of the concept of sensitive areas, particularly as regards the environmental integration of transport flows in the alpine region.
at present, there are a number of definitions of sensitive areas drawn up, in particular, by the united nations and the alpine convention, as well as by community legislation on environmental protection.
the commission considers that sensitive mountain areas, especially the alpine region, as they are usually defined, are clearly priority areas for the implementation of community measures aimed at reducing the environmental impact of transport and disconnecting the growth of transport flows from economic growth.
and where concepts such as external costs, among others, and some perfectly quantifiable environmental costs can be incorporated into the tariffs.
in the light of the disaster which led to its closure, what technical guarantees has the commission obtained as regards compliance with european standards (environment and sustainability of transport) in respect of the 'new' tunnel?
thirdly, sustainable mobility is the objective of the white paper i presented, which the commission adopted on 12 september.
meanwhile, road traffic places a heavy burden on communities in terms of health, economy and environment.
these considerations apply particularly to mountain areas, where the pollution rate is three to six times higher than in other regions.
what concrete measures have been taken to accurately assess the cost of road transport, taking into account socioeconomic and environmental aspects?
what initiatives have been taken to adopt, following the example of switzerland and austria, specific taxes to finance the repair of the socio-environmental damage thus caused and to make rail transport, which remains rich in opportunities, economically competitive?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the alpine regions is a very good one.
we believe, mr president, as i have said on many occasions, that the modal rebalancing of transport in europe is a key element not only for the quality of life of our citizens, for the protection of the environment, but also for economic development, because without this modal rebalancing we will be faced with a situation of collapse of our road networks and of our transport axes.
it seems to me that something so important has not been taken into account in this analysis, namely that over the last 30 years public investment levels in the european union have been declining to 2% of our gnp in the year 2000, whereas in the united states they have been on a sustainable trend and represent 3% of their gnp.
as regards the handling of new cases, our work is focusing in particular on the recently liberalised markets, referred to in particular by mr konrad, mr evans and others, such as energy, air transport, telecommunications and postal services, precisely in order to prevent the former monopolists from abusing the position of strength they traditionally enjoyed.
large-scale harmonisation may waste time, prove unnecessarily bureaucratic and divert political goodwill and attention away from the key issues that member states should agree on.
the proposal enables the eib to finance, under community guarantee, basic investments in the transport and energy sectors, investments much needed to rehabilitate infrastructure damaged by the recent conflicts and by lack of maintenance in the past decade.
finally, i would also draw the attention of the council to the fact that it must now have the capacity and the courage to support and take the decisions which will ensure that civil aviation remains safe, reliable and sustainable in all respects.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports by mr von boetticher, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs: - a5-0339/2001 on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a general framework for community action to facilitate the creation of a european judicial area in civil matters (com (2001) 221 - c5-0254/2001 - 2001/0109 (cns)) - a5-0333/2001 on an initiative by the kingdom of belgium and the kingdom of sweden with a view to adopting: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment from harmful substances, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of certain substances, and the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of certain substances.
a5-0321/2001 by mrs korhola, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive providing for public participation in the drawing up of certain plans and programmes relating to the environment and amending council directives 85/337/eec and 96/61/ec (com (2000) 839 - c5-0027/2001 - 2000/0331 (cod)).
if we want to become a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, capable of sustainable economic growth, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion, and thus again achieving the conditions necessary for full employment, we must encourage cooperation on employment policies between the member states - while maintaining, of course, the right to take decisions corresponding to the particular circumstances of each member state - the exchange of good practice, including those relating to the forms of participation of the social partners and also of local and regional authorities, without forgetting the need for coordination of policies aimed at job creation.
the daily life of the enterprise in our time is a global one; globalisation would be the hallmark of its environment; globalisation, globalisation, is not exclusive to large or very large enterprises, but affects small and mediumsized enterprises, because they also live in this environment.
i am convinced that all employers and workers have the same objective: to improve working conditions and the working environment, to create a suitable working environment.
(applause from the centre)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
- mr president, the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on whose behalf i am speaking, has tabled a dozen amendments to the draft budget relating to the four community initiatives (urban, interreg, equal and leader), to the safety and sustainability of transport and to tourism.
the green group/european free alliance was fortunate to be able to table an amendment again in the plenary to ensure that resources are allocated at european level to promote, monitor and evaluate a policy of ecologically and socially sustainable tourism.
a5-0350/2001 by mr seppänen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council decision granting a community guarantee to the european investment bank against losses resulting from a special lending operation for the implementation of selected environmental projects in the russian part of the baltic sea basin falling within the 'northern dimension' (com (2001) 297 - c5-0307/2001 - 2001/0121 (cns)).
this will extend a community guarantee for eib loans, worth eur 100 million, for environmental projects in russia, as you have indicated.
it is true that, given the threat that the current chernobyl situation poses to the environment throughout europe, it is of the utmost importance that the shelter or protection system project goes ahead with its corrections and is completed and meets its objectives between now and the year 2007, as envisaged in the initial project of the european bank for reconstruction and development.
the european union's overriding objective, set at the lisbon summit, is to make the european union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic development, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
we are still waiting for the final adoption of the asset freezing regulation, incorporating, of course - as the european parliament has called for - a list of european terrorist organisations, without ignoring the environment of operational financial support or propaganda for terrorists.
because we want to achieve a balanced outcome between the opening up of trade and the subjecting of trade to rules, rules of internal democracy, of external democracy, of respect for fundamental social norms, for the environment and for the safety of our consumers.
- mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i should like to thank you first of all for the efforts you have made and the strategy you have followed in preparing for the doha summit to promote a more just and balanced sustainable development worldwide, which contributes to respect for fundamental social rights and to the protection of the environment, and whose benefits also reach the least developed countries.
on the one hand, your group, mrs lucas, is in favour of stronger rules governing trade - particularly from the point of view of taking the environment into account - but on the other hand, it is not in favour of opening negotiations.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0331/2001) by mr désir, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on openness and democracy in international trade (2001/2093 (ini)).
it is not a weak institution that should borrow from a strong wto an energy it does not have.
it is clear that this work has been achieved only thanks to the energy and dynamism of both the high representative for security and cooperation, mr solana, and commissioner patten, who, in a spirit of perfect agreement, both manage to represent us in an excellent way on all the world stages, on all the crisis stages on our own continent or in places much further away.
finally, i would like to say - and the commissioner knows this very well - that this sector makes an important contribution to the articulation of the territory and to all the environmental functions which we say we will defend in this new future community agricultural policy.
it is also true that the white paper presented by mrs de palacio is intended, firstly, to clarify these competences, and secondly, to make transport safer and to reduce the environmental impact of transport so that no new damage is caused to particularly sensitive areas in the european union.
this misunderstood approach to development cooperation would also lead us to prevent the developing countries from exporting their mineral products to us or to ask european energy companies to leave these countries, so that exploitation is carried out by local companies and we do not pay gabon or nigeria the international price per barrel of oil.
all this is done within the framework of the sustainable management of resources to which the cfp aspires.
that respect and consistency with our goals of sustainable development for all must prevent selfish or overbearing actions on our part, as well as those of others, equally irresponsible, who with our fishing activity in the third world made the spanish saying that we were bringing those peoples bread for today and hunger for tomorrow come true.
the following needs are in particular addressed: the fishing opportunities for the community fleet must not lead to the decimation of local fish stocks and fisheries agreements must only be signed if they are compatible with the sustainable development of the sector in the developing country concerned.
the commission also expressly shares the view that the principle of sustainable management of natural resources needs to be applied more vigorously.
the vote will take place this afternoon at 6.30 p.m.
- the report (a5-0316/2001) by mrs attwooll, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposals for: council decision amending decision 97/413/ec on the objectives and arrangements for restructuring the community fisheries sector for the period 1 january 1997 to 31 december 2001 with a view to achieving a sustainable balance between resources and their exploitation (com (2001) 322 - c5-0308/2001 - 2001/0128 (cns)); the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following areas:
- mr president, i would like to thank mrs attwooll for the excellent work she has done on this report which will be so useful to us.
the presence of the european union itself provides an important component of control and guarantee of a greater sustainability of the resource.
so if we want to create a positive environment for the development of electronic commerce and third generation mobile services, now is the time to make sure that the uptake of wireless internet services is not hampered by huge amounts of junk mail which the consumer is paying for against his will.
moreover, from lapland to the canary islands, europe is very large and very diverse in climate, population density and socioeconomic conditions.
question no 29 by mrs nuala ahern (h-0849/01): does the commission intend to put in place the appropriate institutional instruments to prepare within six months a full analysis of the range of options for reducing the threats to nuclear installations from possible deliberately caused aircraft accidents and other malicious acts, including the potential benefits of dry storage of irradiated fuels in installations which can withstand acts of sabotage, the suspension of the removal of stocks of highly radioactive liquid waste until they are vitrified, or the use of vitrification in a programme to render plutonium excessively dense?
subject: serious side effects of the consumption of energy drinks in the european union it has been observed in several member states that the consumption of energy drinks (including red bull) can have serious side effects and even lead to the death of the consumer, as was the case in ireland and sweden.
it has noted that the possible interaction of the constituents of energy drinks has not been well studied, and considers that the possible interactions between caffeine, taurine and alcohol in humans may warrant investigation, particularly under conditions of exercise and consequent dehydration through sweating.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the directive on the protection of the environment.
question no 35 by catherine stihler (h-0790/01) subject: the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'sustainable' subject: electroshock devicesthe recent amnesty international report torture - to end the trade in suffering (2001) states that the use of electroshock devices to torture or ill-treat people in prison, detention centre or police station has been reported in no less than 76 countries worldwide.
(the sitting was suspended at 7.40 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
i would like to congratulate the commissioner and the rapporteur on this report because the green paper on the security of energy supply is a magnificent document and has been accompanied by a great report.
this document represents the first major step in europe's energy strategy; it offers a global perspective of the situation and puts all the relevant issues in this sector on the table, without complexities or conditions.
but we must not forget the environmental issues, which are inseparable from the use of energy.
in this respect, the adopted directive on renewable energy sources and the proposal on the promotion of biofuels will be a major step forward in diversifying the supply of clean energy, but they are not the solution in the short or medium term.
we must not restrict any type of energy, especially if it produces no co2 emissions.
the solutions, as the commission rightly points out, are to diversify sources of supply, especially clean sources - which do not produce greenhouse gases.
we must insist on technological research into energy, energy savings and the liberalization of the gas sectors, if we are to have a genuine internal energy market.
it would also be good if the treaties included a chapter on energy.
- mr president, if a good policy consists in making thorough and accurate diagnoses and devising and implementing the corresponding solutions, then there is no doubt that the commission's energy policy, promoted by the commissioner de palacio, is an example of good policy.
the green paper gives us four key messages: the message of excessive risk associated with reliance on external sources beyond a reasonable limit; the message of the impossibility of meeting the objectives of the kyoto protocol if we are driven by inertia and do not introduce corrective measures; the message of the narrow margin of manoeuvre we have in supply policies and the need to concentrate our efforts on demand policies; and the message of the need to give energy policy a genuinely european dimension.
this is certainly good policy and it does not stop at the diagnosis, because the commissioner has shown that analysis and action can be combined; and at the moment we have in parliament the directive on energy efficiency in buildings, the directive on transport, the directive on the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets and the regulation on crossborder exchanges in electricity.
the modes of procedure presented in the white paper are well balanced, and i believe they involve a step forward in the direction of sustainable development.
we wish to maintain a high level of protection for the environment and human health, but we also need to try to make use of the advantages presented by chemicals.
what we now have to do is find a suitable balance between, on the one hand, the advantages of chemicals and, on the other hand, the unacceptable risks they involve for human health and the environment.
if there are reasons to suspect that a substance has harmful effects on health or the environment and if our scientific and technical knowledge is not sufficient to provide a clear appreciation of the risks, we must take no chances and restrict or prohibit the use of the substance until we know more.
if the desire is for the european chemicals industry to hold its own, sustainable development must be worked for.
it must be possible to guarantee that what is produced is safe for use in terms of human health and the environment and that it corresponds to the requirements of consumers.
we have tabled a balanced proposal which takes account of the needs of industry but which also states that what is most important is to bring about a high level of protection for human health and the environment.
an appropriate pricing policy for irrigation water will play an incentive role for sustainable water use in agriculture, the main consumer activity, and will free up resources for other uses by reducing environmental pressure.
the pricing policy must be heterogeneous, taking into account the polluter pays principle and the social, environmental, economic, geographical and climatic diversity of the regions which will undoubtedly be most affected by this pricing policy.
the financial, environmental and resource costs of irrigation require differential treatment to achieve gradual recovery objectives.
the review of agenda 2000 on the development of agri-environmental measures should include the objectives of water policies.
this will require the review of certain types of aid and the application of cross compliance and the recognition of the right to adequate compensation of certain more vulnerable farmers, such as those working on family farms, in order to promote sustainable water use and integrated rural development.
- mr president, the price of water is a factor which undoubtedly has an effect on its consumption, but it must be approached with due caution, so as not to create counterproductive economic and environmental effects.
if time permits i could go on to list examples of economic activities, both agricultural and industrial, which, far from representing a threat to our water resources, are a clear benefit to the environment.
it is therefore important that water be priced and that it reflects as accurately as possible its environmental costs, supply costs and resource costs.
i would conclude, mr president, by saying that it is not surprising that in this context of which we are speaking there is clear opposition in spain to the national hydrological plan, approved by a majority, that is true, in the house of our country, because it is based mainly on reservoirs and the transfer of water from a river like the ebro, and this can terribly affect an ecosystem unique in europe.
we think it is appropriate, that it criticises a water plan of a european union country which is unsustainable from the economic, social and environmental points of view and which is certainly in contradiction with the european union's strategy for sustainable development.
commission (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament for the resolution on the commission communication on pricing policies for enhancing the sustainability of water resources.
the european parliament's draft opinion covers all the relevant issues affecting water pricing, from the coverage of environmental costs to transparency and consumer participation.
moreover, emphasis is given to areas in which more research and analysis are required in order to ensure that future water pricing policy also embraces environmental, economic and social aspects.
the views of the european parliament will form the basis for future work at eu level aimed at implementing a more sustainable pricing policy.
the group of the european people's party and the european democrats would like to see the following: firstly, that the objectives of prevention and reduction of packaging waste should not be binding and should not be limited to materials, in order to maintain competitiveness between them.
because we must not forget that the legal basis of this directive is the environment and, moreover, the internal market.
secondly, the responsibility for the prevention and disposal of packaging and packaging waste must be shared by producers, retail packagers and consumers, and not just by the producer, as the draft report claims.
thirdly, life cycle analysis is a highly valuable method from an environmental point of view, which must be taken into account, but it cannot be proposed as a standard standard for establishing that the requirements of annex ii are met.
i would thank her for her work on this own-initiative report including a resolution on implementation of directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste.
we have also noted that the european parliament would like to carry out a more extensive review of the issues affecting packaging waste.
i anticipate the commission will be able, before the end of the year, to take a decision on the promised revision of the directive on packaging and packaging waste.
the second revolves around the thematic strategies we have promised under the sixth environmental action programme.
in connection with these strategies, there will be the opportunity to review the whole of our policy in terms of looking at each individual waste stream.
before the end of the year, the promised revision of the specific targets for packaging and packaging waste will take place.
cultural heritage belongs to the world of non-renewable resources.
in this connection, our group in the european parliament, the greens/european liberal alliance, has tabled a number of amendments aimed at preserving environmental and sustainable aspects of the transport market, such as the rational use of energy and compliance with the rules on the control of air pollutant emissions, greenhouse gases, noise, etc., and at giving priority to transport alternatives which best contribute to the expected reduction of traffic congestion.
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the environment, and i am sure that the council will be able to take a number of decisions on this matter.
these strategies covered the transport, energy, agriculture, industry, the internal market and development cooperation sectors.
in parallel with the cardiff process, it is worth noting the existence of the lisbon process, which integrates the 1997 luxembourg social process on employment and the 1999 cologne economic process, which was itself enriched in gothenburg with a third dimension, the environmental dimension, constituted by the strategy for sustainable development, also aimed at integrating the environment into sectoral policies.
the union should present all this at the world summit on sustainable development, which will take place, as you know, in johannesburg in september 2002. in creating this strategy for sustainable development, the european council gave priority, in the environmental part, to climate change, environmentally sustainable transport, responsible management of natural resources and, finally, the management of risks to public health.
the implementation of the sustainable development strategy must, as agreed in gothenburg, be based on four points.
first, an annual commission synthesis report which will now cover the three dimensions of the lisbon process, including the strategy for sustainable development.
thirdly, structural indicators of sustainable development which will be endorsed by the council on the basis of a commission communication before being submitted to the european council in laeken.
fourthly, a commission communication on better regulation, which states that all major proposals from the commission will be assessed beforehand for their impact on the strategy for sustainable development, including the integration of the environment.
i take note of your suggestion and request that this transparency and participation be increased for all those who contribute to the development of sustainable development strategies on the ground.
i hope that, in the interests of transparency, the council will also be able to incorporate the elements you have mentioned to ensure that these sustainable development indicators, which are being prepared and will have to be submitted to laeken, can, in the further course of the process and in the perspective of barcelona, be improved in terms of both transparency and their impact or in terms of taking account of what can come from all those who are actually working on the ground in the field of sustainable development.
- mr president, your concern both for transparency and for correspondence or consistency between the outcome of the doha summit, the final elements of which we are awaiting, and the strategies for sustainable development is very interesting.
it is true that, as we saw in doha, it is difficult, but nevertheless interesting, to put environmental policies in a more multilateral context.
i think this is a very positive element and that now, in the wake of doha, we must take advantage of the gains made in doha and use them in the framework of the actions to be implemented at european union level to ensure that sustainable development not only continues to be a generous and courageous ambition for all, but above all translates, in compliance with the principle of transparency and after constructive dialogue, into concrete actions on the ground.
i therefore believe that the correspondence between the two sides, what has been achieved in a wider forum and what has been or is being achieved at the level of the european union and, in particular, what will have to be achieved at the laeken and barcelona councils, should be coherent and should mark the milestones of a structural framework, concrete and conducive to the integration of sustainable development into all the policies implemented at the level of the council and the european union in general.
while there are radical nationalist groups - supporting terrorism - there are also violent groups with unionist or ecological ideology, which also commit violent acts.
in view of the climate of insecurity created by the uncontrolled flow of immigration into the european union, which is still being fuelled by the terrorist offensive in the united states, what is the council's position on the question of illegal immigration from turkey?
what contingency plans has the council envisaged to deal with the threat of terrorist attacks against nuclear installations in the eu and in particular against the sellafield facility also in view of the totally unacceptable decision of the uk secretary of state for the environment to give the green light on 3 october 2001 to the opening of the mox (mixed plutonium-uranium oxide) facility at sellafield, the formal approval of which had been delayed due to falsification of documents by the bnfl?
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the work of the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
the £470 million mox plant, built five years ago by the state-owned british nuclear fuels plc but not yet operational, has yet to demonstrate that the economic benefits of such a plant outweigh the health and environmental problems, in accordance with community legislation.
as requested by the european council, that report will assess the progress made on the economic, social and environmental dimensions of the lisbon strategy.
i mention the environmental dimension in particular since the göteborg summit.
the objective of sustainable development will underpin the assessment of each strand of that strategy.
at the recent informal summit in ghent, heads of state and government and the commission renewed their commitment to pursuing the lisbon strategy of structural and economic reform and social renewal with determination as a response to both those factors, the new environment and the introduction of the euro.
a number of commission services are therefore contributing to its preparation and this work is being monitored at political level by a group of commissioners dealing with growth, competitiveness, employment and sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
for example, to clearly define street violence as one of the forms of expression of terrorism, or to incorporate a reference to victims and their families and to offer political encouragement and legal support in order to identify and prosecute terrorism and its environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
a very common mistake is that projects have been approved without any environmental impact assessment.
it is not financial damage, but perhaps it is environmental damage because the environmental impact assessment has not been done.
a5-0389/2001 by mrs hautala, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending directive 98/70/ec (com (2001) 241 - c5-0197/2001 - 2001/0107 (cod)).
i agree with her that it is important to have low sulphur fuels available as soon as possible, because technological advances in the automobile sector allow for fuel savings and, above all, lower pollutant emissions.
but it is also true that to produce these fuels, refineries must consume more energy and emit more polluting gases and that, as long as the car fleet is not renewed, the environmental benefits of low sulphur fuels will not be effective.
it is a question of balancing emissions, so we must be practical in terms of timetables and adjust the pace of introduction of new fuels to the pace of vehicle fleet renewal.
i used to be an environment minister in the country i know best.
can i say as a non-official admirer, as it were, that i recognise that the report by mrs hautala contributes significantly to a commission proposal which will, i would judge bring a combination of environmental and economic benefits to our citizens.
the availability of fuels with a maximum sulphur content of 10 parts per million will remove any remaining technical barriers to the introduction of the most fuel efficient vehicles, which will in turn provide a basis for further reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide.
when used in older vehicles, there would also be substantial reductions in emissions of conventional pollutants leading to better air quality.
the commission chose the date of 1 january 20ll, with the date for diesel subject to confirmation by 31 december, five years before in 2006, so that all member states would enjoy a mix of air quality benefits and some reductions in co2 emissions resulting from 10 parts per million fuel.
the commission acknowledges that the relative importance of emissions in this sector continues to grow as the environmental performance of engines used in on-road applications improves.
i therefore would like to thank the rapporteur once again, for her efforts, her professionalism and her dedication and i would like to thank the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy for its input, as well.
these photos were taken in the hospital and show the marks ... (the president cut off the speaker)
president of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is a political success because it is rigorous and accompanied by guarantees of more effective implementation, and these are inexcusable conditions for ensuring healthy and sustainable economic growth.
the dialogue structure which was established at the time certainly includes the transatlantic trade dialogue, but also a transatlantic consumer dialogue, a transatlantic labour dialogue and a transatlantic environmental dialogue, and so the commercial side is one of the pillars of this dialogue, which includes three others.
in the case of the trade dialogue, part of the commission's contribution was to cover the costs of organising annual conferences, although the majority of the costs of these events are now covered by trade sponsorship, which is why the commission's financial support for the trade dialogue is substantially lower than the financial contribution it offers in support of the consumer dialogue, the labour dialogue and the environment dialogue.
commission - on the first point, i would like to say that, like the dialogue on consumers, the environment or labour, the transatlantic trade dialogue is designed to make wishes, recommendations and views which help to feed our own work.
as regards participation in the summit, as i said earlier, the parties involved in these dialogues - on business, consumers, the environment, work - are invited to come in turn and present their recommendations to the leaders of the two parties, that is to say, essentially to the american president on the one hand, to the council presidency and to the commission on the other.
i would add that the means have also been put in place to ensure that their destination is sustainable growth which also benefits the poorest countries.
question no 2 by nelly maes (h-0862/01) subject: regional competences in a globalised environment a supplementary declaration on the future of the european union was annexed to the treaty of nice.
question no 3 by mr camilo nogueira román, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, to the commission (h-0863/01): subject: informal european council in ghent on the laeken declaration on wednesday 4 july 2001, the belgian president of the european council spoke in favour of the constitutional regions playing a role in the process of european integration.
above all i would like to thank him for what he said about the external aspects of sustainable development.
i hope in particular that parliament will take a special interest in some of the issues he raised, which are of fundamental importance if we are to be credible on sustainable development.
the second objective of our communication is to raise the effectiveness of our actions in tackling 'cross-cutting issues' such as trafficking in drugs or arms, the trading of illicit goods, environmental degradation and so on.
once we have a contractual basis for our relationship, we will be in a much better position to develop exchanges not just in the economic area, but also on matters such as migration, drugs, energy and the environment.
the potential for eu/iran cooperation in trade, energy and economic matters is enormous.
the erika i package and the future approval of the erika ii package will make it possible to create a genuine european maritime safety area and should ensure an optimal level of protection of the european maritime and coastal environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
by fighting it, and eventually eradicating it, we will have taken a giant step towards a sustainable global fishery.
we are already engaged in such broader clearance activities in countries such as laos and the federal republic of yugoslavia and kosovo, where the anti-personnel landmine problem is very clearly connected to unexploded ordnance pollution.
the polls show that our citizens are in favour of more resolute european action in various fields, such as social policy, foreign and defence policy, environmental protection.