agriculture needs to be sustainable, especially with regard to generational change.
sustainable development must be a reality now.
no more damage to the environment and no more suffering to animals.
environmental taxes are a clear example.
the programme for the swedish presidency is full of ambition and it is indeed time that environmental issues in the broader context are finally brought into the centre of the debate in the european union.
the eu's sustainable development agenda, adopted as part of the rio+ process at the gothenburg summit, should include all the sustainability elements that have been prioritised for the eu presidency.
how is it possible, in this timetable, for the european parliament to be able to participate fully in the preparation of, for example, the sustainable development programme?
the report does not address the issue of whether peat is renewable or fossil fuel.
wood is a renewable resource.
there are many options for its use, including in the energy industry.
the report endorses the principle that forest products should be used for energy production only at the end of the production chain, after they have no other useful use.
the multiple use of forests, their role as carbon sinks and their preservation for future generations are best achieved by applying the subsidiarity principle and there is no justification for increasing the commission's powers in forestry.
in our own opinion we would like to stress the importance of profitability in the whole forestry chain, including forestry and logging, as the raw material base of the forestry industry, since the european sustainable forestry economy is still based on the so-called 'family forestry' and the activity of 12 million private forest owners.
the international climate conference in the hague has failed.
the committee on agriculture has followed the climate change process very closely, as we believe that the importance of forests is not being taken into account enough in the review of the kyoto protocol.
forests and all wood products are huge carbon sinks; their importance in this respect must be acknowledged.
the environment has been increased in staffing, but the directorate-general for agriculture, which is responsible for forestry, is operating at a very low level of resources, as is the directorate-general for industry.
i think that when we calculate the amount of carbon that is bound to forests, we must also take into account the amount of woodland that was planted and managed before 1990. otherwise, this decades of work is not taken into account when calculating the greenhouse gas emissions counterweight.
forests and seas are the main sources and stores of carbon dioxide, and it has been found that the soil in the forest is even more capable of absorbing carbon than the forest itself in the north.
it's an increasingly entertaining factor, and i think it's going to do well for nintendo, and it's going to create an ecological balance.
at its best, the forestry sector can serve as a model for other sectors in how to exploit renewable natural resources, how to tie climate carbon to products and how to supply the chain in an environmentally sustainable but economically viable way.
as a member of the committee on the environment, i am particularly encouraged by the way in which the report has taken account of the ecological and, in some cases, even socioeconomic conditions in a market-based industry.
as regards the eu's energy policy, it supports the achievement of a number of objectives which the union is seeking to pursue and which it has just expressed in the green paper on energy.
turf strengthens our alarmingly declining energy security and energy independence, promotes combined heat and power generation and brings with it synergies in the energy use of wood and peat.
insofar as peat grows annually, it is clearly also a renewable energy source.
due to its origin and renewable nature, peat is a biomass fuel, but because it is renewable at a much slower rate than other fuels, a new third category should be created between fossil and rapidly renewable energy sources.
it's a slowly renewable biomass fuel.
burning peat, like wood fuel, is undeniably responsible for greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere.
the kyoto protocol does not include emissions from wood burning in the country's emission ceiling because carbon bound to the wood would be released in any case when the wood is decomposed.
studies on the carbon balance and gas cycle of peat have also emerged in recent years, the results of which suggest that a reassessment of peat combustion emissions should be carried out, taking into account the overall gas balance of peat.
the area under energy use is very small compared to the area under forestry and agriculture use.
as has been noted here, environmental considerations also strongly favour the development of rail transport.
however, the current trend in energy efficiency is not always the best possible.
many devices have a small red light that keeps on flashing, indicating that the device is still running some kind of circuit and that the device is also consuming some energy.
the general objective should be to promote the use of less energy-consuming technologies, for example, the use of incandescent lamps should be avoided whenever they can be replaced in the equipment by leds, for example.
it is difficult for consumers to think that the purchase price is cheap, but the 'energy-saving' device becomes expensive over time.
energy labelling must be standardised so that all consumers, from children to the elderly, understand how much energy a device consumes.
in particular, manufacturers of appliances shall specify in the instructions for use how the appliance can be used to save energy.
mr president, commissioner, the issues of maritime safety and the protection of the marine environment have been very much in the spotlight since the erika accident a little over a year ago.
the union already had a very comprehensive legal framework for safety on board and prevention of pollution from ships before and, in particular, after the erika.
the development of rail transport is also a step towards more environmentally sustainable transport.
president prodi called for sustainable environmental development.
the leningrad region waste water treatment plant would be a good concrete example of the northern cooperation area which should now be launched.
mr president, sustainable development was mentioned in the opening speech by president prodi and this is the very central objective of my group.
if we fail to achieve a real sustainable development agenda in gothenburg, we will have missed an opportunity that may not come again.
this is something we cannot accept, since we are talking about sustainable development.
environmental competitiveness is something that should be taken seriously and the commission should rather listen to companies and economic operators who have realised that sustainable development can also be good business.
the areas where the legislative framework is intended to achieve environmental objectives more rapidly and perhaps more effectively need to be clearly defined.
now this proposal extends the 1993 scheme to include various organisations with an environmental impact.
environmental activism is important not only for the environment but also for the companies themselves.
today's consumer is increasingly focusing on the environmental impact of products in their own consumption decisions.
it is essential that joining the environmental management system requires a commitment to regular environmental declarations, certified by independent experts, and to their publication.
the measures to promote employment must therefore be concentrated where the greatest added value can be achieved, namely in education, research and the introduction of new technologies as a means of growth, and in particular as a means of sustainable growth.
however, i share that concern and i believe that the time for the gothenburg meeting is not too long, given the preparations that have followed the helsinki summit's decision to integrate environmental issues into the various policy areas.
some who have spoken of sustainable development believe that the aim is to put the environment in a kind of relative position by putting the economy ahead of the environment.
the sixth environmental action programme is currently being prepared by parliament and this should be the ecological pillar of this sustainable development programme.
are you going to insist that this is really the way it is, or is this ecological part just a conversation?
at most they can contribute to a better climate in economic life.
the committee on the environment has extended the concept in the light of recent developments.
the directive on access to environmental information was already a good and ambitious proposal when it left the commission.
i also thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their attitude, i was very pleased that all 25 of my own amendments were adopted in the name of the committee, and that the committee members also made important additions.
this is a report which is relevant not only to the individual citizen but also to the community's environmental policy.
access to information is a major horizontal tool in eu environmental policy and the directive has been long overdue for reform.
i have tabled an amendment to require that emissions be reported even when other types of data are protected.
the harmfulness of emissions does not depend on the nature of the activity which generated them: for the health and safety of citizens, there is no difference between the source and the public or commercial entity.
i thought it necessary to make a whole new article on the quality of environmental information.
in my examination of this directive i have come across the fact that comprehensive harmonisation of emissions measurements is not required in this respect.
of course, it does matter whether you measure emissions at the end of a pipe or a mile away with a butterfly's-eye.
taken as a whole, this directive can be considered to set the standard for member states in terms of transparency of environmental information.
the rapporteur has now drawn up a report on the implementation of the first task of this treaty, which relates to the right of citizens to information on the environment.
i myself have been closely involved in the preparation of the cashman report and, having read the korhola report, i have wondered whether it would be appropriate to add a clause to the cashman report stating that environmental and health data cannot be classified even if they are treated as trade secrets.
it is possible that much environmental and health information will be kept secret from the public if such a restriction is not made.
- mr president, the directive is important for the eu, both in terms of the environment, energy production and competitiveness.
in my own country, for example, this might be an ecological step backwards.
in finland, concern is shared by several different bodies, including the ministry of the environment.
the amendments by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection would mean investment that is cost-effective in relation to the ecological benefits and would make it more difficult to use energy-efficient wood and peat together and to produce electricity and heat together.
it could even be said that, in some of the amendments, the report is guilty of environmental greed and is therefore in danger of choking on many important environmental objectives.
however, it is important that the report is adopted and the directive is put into effect, because it will help to prevent the long-range transport of emissions and the acid deposition in the nature of another member state.
once again we are in a situation where the legislator is faced with the fact that different environmental conditions also mean different environmental impacts.
this directive aims to reduce emissions of certain air pollutants, namely sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and ammonia, so as to achieve a long-term level of safety for human health.
this is done by setting intermediate targets for 2010. these intermediate targets will result in a halving of the areas where critical acidification loads are exceeded, a reduction of two thirds of the health-related ozone load and a reduction of one third of the ozone load above the critical level for vegetation.
the greatest threats and therefore the most challenging issues for the member states are emissions from energy production, and in this sense the oomen-ruijten report just discussed was the most relevant and i really hope that we will get the best possible result in the vote tomorrow, because it has a direct impact on how the emission ceilings of this directive can be achieved.
industry is the only one of these that has been able to reduce its emissions over the last decades, while transport seems to be only increasing its emissions.
- mr president, mr president of the commission, i fully agree with the previous speaker that acidification, fertilization and the increase in soil ozone levels are problems that we must tackle effectively throughout europe.
a common position in the council would mean a significant reduction in emissions.
unfortunately, our committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has come up with some proposals which are so significant and ambitious that if they were to be implemented they would jeopardise the consensus reached.
it is important that environmental objectives are achieved as cost-effectively as possible.
as valuable as the committee on the environment's tightening of the emission limits are, we should be aware of the possible adverse effects of our wishes and our voting behaviour.
delaying this directive and having to go through a lengthy mediation - a poker game like the one we were talking about - would certainly be the worst option for the environment.
moreover, the environmental benefits of the restrictions would be very small compared to the costs.
this is a very important issue, since we are talking about protecting the environment and at the same time ensuring energy supply.
a member state which wishes to steer its emissions in a cleaner direction by means of taxation must be considered as being in solidarity with the union as a whole and with our common environment.
we must ensure that the distortion of competition is not encouraged in the name of free competition at the expense of environmental protection.
a member state that manages its co2 emissions responsibly, for example, must not be in a situation where those producing energy from fuels that are correspondingly more polluting are given a competitive advantage over it.
on this basis, the harmonised environmental taxes are justified.
this scenario may lead in the long term to the fact that environmental considerations do not become a determining factor in energy policy decisions.
the co-generation of electricity and heat is an important issue in terms of energy efficiency.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr lindh, mr president of the commission, mr prodi, the objective set for the union in lisbon a year ago of becoming the most competitive and dynamic economic area in the world, capable of sustainable growth, creating new and better jobs and greater social cohesion, is certainly not without ambition.
the council must deliver swift results in continuing liberalisation and improving the business climate, especially now that we are clearly moving towards a us-led period of uncertainty with falling stock prices and a weakening of confidence among businesses and consumers.
i have taken as a starting point the positions adopted in the report by mr elmar brok on enlargement, which, in paragraph 56, reiterates the idea of a new european area based on a market economy and free trade, environmental protection, democracy, human rights and security.
in addition to improving human rights and the rule of law, i also want to raise energy issues.
the community's energy financing must be conditional on a level of safety corresponding to western standards and proper environmental management.
ukraine also needs a comprehensive energy plan, to which the government and leadership of the country are also committed.
it allows for the use of fewer pesticides and achieves positive environmental effects.
our committee welcomes the work of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and purvis, which took account of our amendments in committee.
we would hope that the commission would read carefully the requests made in the report, for example, to measure the net environmental impact.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted an opinion.
mr president, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy is specialised in industrial, foreign trade and scientific research.
as regards the proposed ban on the marketing of products by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the findings of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy suggest that the ban on the marketing, or sale, of cosmetic products tested on animals may be contrary to wto rules.
as a special committee on the subject, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy does not propose a ban on sales.
as the draftsman of the committee's opinion, i see the problem that may arise, but i also understand the position of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection: the limits of the wto must be tested.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted an opinion.
mr president, the majority of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has a different view of the many pvc problems and how to combat them than the committee on the environment.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy strongly believes in the self-monitoring of the pvc industry and its ability to respond to the adverse effects of pvc throughout the life cycle of the substance.
the committee on industry, trade, research and energy has made an assessment of the green paper which i believe has been largely influenced by the aggressiveness of industry in this area.
mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr saccon, for the excellent report he has produced on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the health and environmental problems of pvc are caused by the chlorine released, the stabilizers and the plasticizers.
the long life cycles of these products and their long persistence in the ecosystem mean that the extent of the environmental problems can only be estimated at present.
however, the amount of pvc waste continues to increase.
the magnitude of the problem is illustrated by the fact that the incineration of pvc can generate even more hazardous waste than the original amount of waste, and because pvc remains in the ecosystem for a long time, the landfill is also a poor alternative for this waste.
parliament wants to make eu governance more efficient and simpler, to emphasise the personal responsibility of public officials, to improve budget implementation and to strengthen economic development and to promote sustainable agriculture.
the committee also felt that the impact of subsidies granted to the coal industry by some member states on the competitive situation between the different forms of energy should be examined.
the united states' own carbon dioxide emissions account for about a quarter of the world's present carbon dioxide emissions.
the united states produces more than ten times the amount of carbon dioxide per capita that would be sustainable on a per capita basis.
to avoid further confrontation, bush must reverse his decision and engage in an active dialogue with the eu and other parties to the climate agreement to ensure that we take sufficient action together to combat climate change.
europe and presumably the united states already have the technical capacity to reduce industrial emissions by one third by 2010 compared with 1990. the energy and transport sectors now need to be given a major and even greater focus.
sustainable development does not threaten economic well-being, but on the contrary promotes the wise use of natural resources and ensures well-being and jobs for future generations.
mr president, the social democrats in the european parliament want to make a strong appeal to the council to step up and not weaken the fight against climate change and to ensure that the gothenburg summit sends a clear message of the will of the europeans.
- mr president, although the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection did not treat the rapporteur, mr roth-behrendt, with kindness this time, i would nevertheless like to thank him for the good work he has done at various stages of the report.
this model should allow national support to be granted, aimed primarily at promoting food safety, environmental cleanliness and regional policy objectives.
i think this is one possible and seriously to be taken way forward from the current system which is bad for the taxpayer, bad for the consumer, bad for the environment and especially bad for the farmer.
like von wogau, i have been tired of talking about the far too slow opening up and competition of the energy sector, the transport sector and the postal service in several different member states.
he could really be called mr producer responsibility, because this was already the second historic directive, the second historic achievement in which producer responsibility is coming into the european union's environmental and product legislation in a significant way.
this is how we are entering a new phase in environmental policy.
the point is that environmental requirements can be taken into account even in the design of products.
i have noticed that there is already a debate in large companies because of this directive about how, for example, gsm phones could be lighter - although they are lighter - how they could be more easily dismantled, and how all these harmful substances could be separated and then delivered as waste to be treated responsibly.
it has a major impact on the quantity and quality of the electrical and electronic waste generated, greater than any other possible decision that parliament could take on scrap.
it creates incentives for greener design and innovation even before products are on the market, thereby reducing the environmental impact of a product throughout its life cycle.
this is a big change from the previous way of thinking, which focused on repairing and preventing environmental damage only at the stage of the product when it was waste.
annex ii on waste treatment requirements should be treated in the same way.
only this approach will really encourage ecological design.
similarly, incentives should be provided for the development of alternative waste management methods, which should also have the least possible environmental impact.
my amendment to that effect was already adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection in the annex, but the corresponding amendment to the article is contained in amendment no 76 tabled in plenary.
mr president, the european union is enacting legislation that clearly shows the rest of the world that the conflict between environmental considerations and economics is not inevitable but can be reconciled by deliberate legislation.
this is where the real potential for sustainable development arises, where the eu can be a global pioneer.
how will sustainable development come to the summit talks with putin and the eu?
have you touched on the subject of energy saving?
zult u het hebben over the sensitive new energy extraction in the arctic areas?
russia promised, among other things, to protect the environment in the finnish bay and the sea in primorsk.
zult u eis dat rusland the esbo convention concerning the effects of environmental pollution in transboundary context is not a valid one.
i also realise how important the future erica ii package is to the biggest, open and independent environmental risk that the finnish bocht faces, namely the harbour building in primorsk.
we also know that pollution is probably always the greatest source of pollution, although accidents get the most attention.
i believe that in the future, the transatlantic relationship should continue to focus on developing solutions to the problems of social inequality in the world and on jointly seeking instruments for sustainable development.
in this respect, the council and the commission should also be commended for the fact that, during the stockholm summit, prime minister persson and commission president prodi sent a letter to the president of the united states in which they stressed the importance of the kyoto protocol and in particular stated that the climate policy of the kyoto protocol is an essential part - and not a side issue - of our understanding of the transatlantic relationship.
i would think that this tanker of ours should be the best environmentally friendly technology in the world, and as mr cox said, it should have at least a double bottom and its engine should be very efficient and its fuel the cleanest - preferably solar energy, if possible, mr commissioner!
i would also like to say that if the united states wants to become the last outpost of old technology in the world, that is to say, the outpost of 'old' technology, because it refuses to go out and develop climate-friendly solutions, which we cannot do anything about, then the european union must nevertheless become the world's leading region in this respect, and we can still invite the united states to join this climate policy, which also generates good business.
we see that it is likely to increase threats globally and that the european union should refrain from participating in this and instead convince the united states that security in the world is promoted by solutions based on the global promotion of socially and ecologically sustainable development.
o group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, to which i belong, defends that crimes against the environment should be included among those applying this proposal.
unfortunately, we know that intentional discharges of oil constitute a source of pollution significantly greater than accidents.
- mr president, commissioner wallström, representatives of the presidency, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on the environment.
it is thanks to your flexibility that we are now adopting parliament's position on the sixth community action programme on the environment.
but when we wanted to make our own contribution to the gothenburg summit, the first summit devoted to environmental issues, there was no escaping the rush, nor the vote in committee, which was struck by the dark emotions.
in the course of preparing the environment action programme, we have been able to reach a broad consensus on the correctness of the priorities proposed by the commission.
the main environmental concerns are climate change, biodiversity loss, health threats from environmental problems, the availability of natural resources and the sustainable management of waste.
the commission has wanted a more descriptive programme and i, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, have chosen a line which, where possible, sets concrete quantitative and qualitative targets for the priority areas selected, and also sets clear timetables for those targets.
although the environment action programme is designed for a period of 10 years, i have also set out objectives for a longer period.
for example, tackling climate change requires a time perspective of several decades.
when the environment council gave the commission instructions for the preparation of the programme in march last year, it also called for concrete objectives and timetables to be set.
how far the environment ministers will reach a common position in a week's time on the building remains to be seen.
it would be a very strong message to the european citizens about the eu's environmental policy if parliament and the council took a common position on the objectives at the gothenburg summit.
i think it is essential that the eu environment programme should contain clear objectives and timetables for achieving the objectives, because only such a programme and its implementation can be assessed with sufficient unambiguity.
achieving environmental objectives requires cooperation.
environmental issues must be integrated into all community policies and decisions.
we will not prevent climate change or the possibility of healthy air for our citizens unless we limit emissions from energy production, transport and industry.
however, decisions on what is done in the different policy areas and how to enable environmental issues to be integrated into policies are taken within these different sectors.
therefore, they must also be equipped with a stronger environmental awareness.
environmental assessment must also be included in economic decisions.
the commission and the council must change their working methods in order to integrate environmental issues into all community decision-making.
enlargement is both a challenge and an opportunity for europe's environment.
the programme should set out ways in which enlargement can be seen as a great opportunity to improve the state of our environment.
we must also take a bold lead in international environmental policy, both in trade policy and in development policy.
this requires clear and visible communication on environmental issues.
these programme objectives, which are set out in the report, are mainly taken from the commission's communication section, but they also contain many of the same objectives as those set out by commission president prodi in his own presentation on sustainable development at the last strasbourg session.
in the only animal waste facility in the country, it is still possible to separate different categories of waste, but it seems very difficult to separate waste from different animal species, since the volumes involved are so small.
the administrative burden is particularly heavy on small and medium-sized enterprises, which, due to their small size, have to use relatively more energy to comply with the regulations than large enterprises.
mr president, for my group, göteborg is above all the summit on sustainable development.
the issue of sustainable development must not be overlooked by the top brass, but must now be taken seriously.
i was a little impatient when the commission seemed to be failing to complete its own proposal on sustainable development, and at the stockholm summit i said that commission president prodi was ecologically illiterate.
i now have to withdraw this statement because i have read the president of the commission's ideas on sustainable development and i consider them to be very valuable.
there is no technology more outdated than that, and i would like to warn that under the shadow of climate policy nuclear power is indeed making a comeback.
- (fi) in addition to the fact that i voted in favour of the declaration on the meeting of the european council in gothenburg, i should like to make the following points as explanations of vote: environmental issues will be the main theme of the european council in gothenburg this week for the first time.
the sustainable development strategy gives concrete content to community policy by combining the economy, employment and the environment.
it will be necessary to ensure that the sustainable development strategy does not remain in the shadow of the other topics discussed at the summit.
the overall union strategy shall aim at reducing europe's dependence on energy imports.
the gas and oil resources of the barents region, among others, also constitute an important reserve for europe's energy supply.
the union must also make more determined efforts to replace oil with other energy sources.
in particular, renewable energy sources and biofuels can replace part of oil consumption while contributing to the kyoto objectives.
this requires the union to devote more resources to research and promotion of renewable energy.
nor should we underestimate the importance of local renewable fuels, which can be scientifically proven to be renewable, such as peat in some areas, cork waste in others or olive seeds, for example.
energy conservation is also an important means of reducing dependence on oil.
one example is the increased emphasis on energy in construction and transport.
the simplest way to save energy is to improve the energy efficiency of buildings by harmonising the building code towards energy efficiency.
at the same time, oil-based raw materials can be replaced by renewable materials such as wood.
transporting energy is one problem.
i support local energy.
renewable energy is not moving fast enough.
i thank the honourable member for the energy dialogue with russia, but we must give it a boost.
that cooperation would work, and we would have energy security.
- mr president, i would like to thank the swedish presidency in particular for its consistent efforts to promote environmental issues and for having placed the environment, along with economic and social issues, at the centre of political attention during its six-month presidency.
unfortunately, only the council as a whole has not been able to achieve the level of progressivity on environmental matters that the presidency would have deserved by its own actions.
sustainable development is an important step towards integrating the environment into european policy.
the strengthening of the ecological pillar of sustainable development is also necessary because, when sustainability is monitored on an annual basis, the ecological pillar must be able to set clear objectives in order to allow this traceability.
we must have measurable objectives, quantitative and qualitative objectives, sufficient perspectives on how the state of the environment is monitored, so that we are able to tackle the threats we face adequately.
whether in future, for example, the stability and growth pact, the employment guidelines, and other somewhat more binding documents of this type could also address pension policy issues, and for example give warnings to those member states which do not manage their pension policies properly and ensure that in the future, with reasonable funding, good quality pensions can be paid to european pensioners in a sustainable way.
the sustainability of pensions will be one of the biggest challenges which our societies will have to face in the coming decades.
- mr president, the most important renewable energy source is hydroelectricity.
without it, the share of renewable energy sources in the eu's energy production would be very small, although the significant share of wind power in denmark cannot be underestimated.
other renewable energy sources are already harder to find.
the council's position that the incineration of mixed waste should be counted as renewable energy is not sustainable.
hydropower needs to be supplemented by other forms of energy than waste incineration.
parliament also called for the eu to take action to combat climate change, and for the eu to take action to combat climate change.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted some of the amendments tabled by our committee, but not all.
i also mention the forthcoming climate negotiations which will begin in two weeks' time in bonn.
my group will give you all the support you need to continue the work that sweden has started on sustainable development.
i believe that you will understand that the environmental problem of transport and mobility is one of the issues on the belgian presidency's agenda.
article 2 (b) on definitions should read as follows: 'biodegradable fraction of products, waste and waste products from agriculture, including plant and animal matter, forestry and related industries, and biodegradable fraction of industrial and municipal waste from biomass'.
- mr president, we have just voted on the definition of renewable energy sources, which also clarifies the concept of biomass.
although parliament has unfortunately not repeated the definition we adopted last time, which states that peat is counted as renewable in so far as it is renewed annually, i would point out that the version now adopted includes peat implicitly.
i hope so, in the name of environmental protection.
the environmental groups, who based their position on outdated knowledge about the carbon cycle of soybeans, paradoxically opposed my formulation against the prevention of the exploitation of soybeans, and here's the result: greed has a sad ending, probably also greed for the environment.
to remind us of what we are dealing with, let us recall a few facts about global warming.
i would point out that there is already ample scientific evidence for this, that global warming is a cold fact.
if we allow warming to continue, the worst-case scenario feared for northwest europe could occur: warming could reverse the north atlantic ocean currents so that the climate in northern fennoscandia would become the opposite, freezing, again as a result of warming.
recently, the red cross also confirmed what other aid agencies have said: experience with increased natural disasters shows that change can be attributed to global warming.
i think that this proposal, together with the improvements we are introducing, will reduce emissions significantly.
at least in the case of the baltic sea, this is one of the most problematic environmental issues relating to the shipbuilding industry.
it is important for the improvement of the quality of the aquatic environment.
i would like to stress here that my group is stressing that the european model of society, which we hope the applicant countries will also pursue, is a sustainable model of society, which includes the idea that sustainable development must be sustainable not only economically but also ecologically and socially.
we must emphasize that the applicant countries must take very seriously the community legislation which seeks to strengthen these sustainable characteristics.
we need a political response on a global scale to this unprecedented challenge in order to weed out the real roots of terrorism which stem from political, social and environmental conflicts: this concept underlies the report of mr watson, which this parliament adopted last week.
- mr president, commissioner, the aim of this directive was to achieve the strictest possible emission ceilings for air emissions from acidification.
acidification, ozone in the lower atmosphere and soil erosion are interrelated problems caused by emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and ammonia.
it makes sense to look at the problems together, because that is the most cost-effective way of reducing emissions.
in its own proposal, the commission had calculated on this basis the ceilings to be reached by each member state by 2010. the community - the european union - has set itself the objective, both in its fifth environmental action programme and in its strategy for acidification, of ensuring that people are protected from all known air pollutants.
these reviews shall also take into account the extent to which the long-term objectives can be achieved by 2020. the result of the conciliation was that the commission was given the means to tighten up the target level of the directive and the requirement to consider reducing emissions also in the long term as an objective to ensure that critical levels and loads are not exceeded and that people are effectively protected from all air pollutants.
the most difficult of the sources of acidification emissions is to deal with the emissions from aircraft and ships.
we now have a revised directive which can be expected to have a significant impact on reducing emissions from large combustion plants, while taking account of the realities of everyday life.
these amendments are reflected in this directive even after the conciliation and will, inter alia, allow for the production of combined heat and power, which is essential for sustainable development.
national emission limits and emissions from large energy installations are areas where member states have traditionally controlled their own interests and sought to prevent the setting of targets that could jeopardise their own competitiveness and that of the eu as a whole.
the commission is expected to make a number of important proposals this autumn on the fight against climate change.
in the face of the realities of climate change, we can afford no less.
secondly, creating an environment that is creative and rewarding is essential, and it's difficult.
the situation is further aggravated by the proposal for a european investment bank loan to russia for environmental protection investments in the baltic sea basin, which the commission has sent to parliament.
the council decision shows that there are member states which want to make environmental cooperation with russia more difficult.
- mr president, we are now discussing a directive on public participation in environmental decision-making.
the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection last week led to an embarrassingly illogical result which must now be corrected in plenary to correct the embarrassing situation for the reputation of parliament.
such a restriction is strange in terms of citizen participation and also takes up unnecessary time and energy from the authorities themselves.
i would also like to thank the opinions of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs and the committee on petitions, which encouraged and supported my work in the committee on the environment.
– mr president, may i begin by saying that this proposal deals with the second pillar of this convention involving public participation in environmental decision-taking.
in addition to this proposal on access to environmental information, there are other pieces of community legislation which already incorporate the principle of the aarhus convention.
public participation has to become a fully integrated part of environmental decision-taking.
on a more practical level, the definition of "public concerned" has been used without major problems in existing legislation – for example the environmental impact assessment directive – for a number years.
in short, this approach will give those affected by new developments the right to influence decisions which will not just affect their environment but which may also affect their economic and social conditions.
amendment no 26 seeks to extend considerably the scope of article 1, so as to cover plans and programmes not only in the environmental field but also in other sectors.
in particular, for plans and programmes in other sectors that may have significant environmental effects, directive 2001/42 on strategic environmental assessment already incorporates measures of particular relevance.
the directive provides for environmental assessment of relevant plans and programmes in many integration sectors and envisages public participation fully in line with the aarhus requirements.
the aarhus convention does not explicitly require this, neither does the directive on strategic environmental assessment of plans and programmes provide for access to justice.
this is also the case with the loan guarantee for environmental investment loans granted by the european investment bank to russia.
the loans are intended to improve the environmental situation in the whole baltic sea region and thus also in the eu member states.
the decision is to be taken this year, because there are so many commitments for next year that there will be no room at all in the guarantee fund for new guarantees - in this case, no room for loans for russian environmental investments either.
so if we want to secure european investment bank loans for environmental projects in the russian baltic sea basin, we will have to make a decision this year.
i can agree with everything per-arne arvidsson said about the importance and environmental significance of this decision.
i would point out once again that the northern coast of the gulf of finland is the one that receives all the waste coming from st petersburg, which leads to a particularly large algal bloom.
i therefore want to declare that i have a great interest in this matter and that the waste water from 3.5 million people has a tremendous impact on my finnish environment and my finnish archipelago.
these funds will be used for selected projects with a clear environmental objective and which are of significant interest also to the eu.
it is in our interest, and eventually we will open the doors to a better environmental awareness in st petersburg, something we must be constantly aware of.
the chernobyl reactor safety fund was established in december 1997 to finance the implementation of the reactor safety plan to protect the population and the environment from new radioactive contamination.
the new round of negotiations on the liberalization of world trade and the development of the rules of the game must deal with matters on a broad basis in order to boost sustainable economic growth, to strengthen, develop and renew the trading system based on global rules and to ensure the fair distribution of its benefits.
it must also be about working for a better environment, social development, poverty reduction and human rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
deputy draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
- mr president, the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, mr philippe herzog, is a member of the parliament's delegation to the wto in qatar and has therefore asked me to present the opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
this is particularly true in cities, where solutions to environmental problems and congestion problems must be found.
it must be possible to choose the most appropriate solutions for different circumstances and for each operating environment.
- mr president, public transport must be developed for environmental reasons and for reasons of social equality, among other things, and, as has been said here, it must be made attractive.
as stated here, the eu has limited powers to intervene in energy supply conditions.
the possibilities for influence are limited to demand and thus to promoting energy savings in the construction and transport sectors.
it is therefore essential to ensure the diversity of energy sources and the equal distribution of energy suppliers.
local energy increases energy security, reduces dependence on energy imports and creates jobs.
in particular, research into and use of renewable energy sources must be promoted.
responsibility for maintaining the security of energy supply falls primarily within the scope of national energy policy.
energy projects serving europe's common objectives are also an excellent way of giving substance to the eu's policy on the northern dimension.
i would suggest, commissioner, that the commission take swift action to bring this northern gas to the balance of our energy situation.
forty percent of the energy is used in buildings, for heating, water, air conditioning and lighting.
we in finland had to make changes to the buildings during the last energy crisis and we have achieved good results in the tough conditions.
we need to make buildings very energy efficient, because we have a lot of things to fix in buildings.
with the cuts in funding, this important project will be delayed and will delay the transition to fusion energy, which is already 50 years away.
the amendments adopted by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy to continue the existing arrangements such as the craft programme are therefore necessary.
the only way to reduce crossborder bank charges in a sustainable way is to enable the euro area to develop technical standards for the automated processing of payments.
the european parliament was involved in the drafting of this legislation, which was originally adopted in 1998, that is, more than three years ago, and it did quite well in the co-decision procedure to push through cleaner fuels which help to reduce transport emissions considerably.
on the other hand, we can say that the automobile and catalytic industry felt it was absolutely essential that these low-energy cleaner fuels should be brought to market, because otherwise they could not have produced cleaner, better and more advanced engines with lower emissions.
the commission proposes that by 2011 both petrol and diesel fuel should be virtually free of emissions.
this is essential because it has been found that fuel consumption also decreases as sulphur levels decrease, and in the meantime climate policy has become a key objective in the european union.
the committee on the environment proposes that member states be given the possibility of certain transitional periods or derogations when this directive is next revised.
parliament proposes that this revision should take place a year earlier than the commission has decided; we want the revision to take place in 2005. contrary to what some have demanded, the committee on the environment has decided that nothing but the bankrupt is to be touched in this context.
sustainable development and environmental consideration in trade policy decisions were adopted as the overarching objective of the forthcoming negotiations, something which is certainly of central importance to us as a union country.
compliance with environmental legislation is also very important.
we have had a number of projects in europe since the erica disaster to improve environmental legislation on oil tankers.
yesterday an oil spill was detected in finland, in the turun archipelago near a nature reserve, apparently due to some kind of environmental law violation, or at least the cause is not yet clear.
i would like to hear from the commissioner what action can be taken also in the field of environmental legislation to bring the perpetrators to justice and whether it is possible for the commission to take action also in the case of such oil accidents as those which occurred last year in gotland and the erika accident off the coast of france and now in turku, finland.
the safety of navigation and the prevention of marine pollution can be promoted by the mandatory implementation by flag states of existing conventions in force.
the environmental benefits of water transport make it particularly suited to heavy goods transport.
however, in the event of accidents, waterways are very vulnerable and environmental damage knows no bounds.