it is part of their daily environment and their own identity.
the protection of heritage is therefore a vital necessity because of the damage it suffers from the effects of time, but also because of the new forms of aggression to which it is subject, such as air pollution, disorderly urbanisation, population pressure and, unfortunately, others.
it is the feeling, the happiness, that we feel when each of us, on our travels through the european union, marvels at the treasures we encounter and feels the pride of having become, thanks to the existence of the european union, a modest owner of them, and also the guardian of their sustainability.
for example, the regular sme guarantee facility, the growth and jobs initiative, the growth and environment initiative, the eif technology facility etf, the eif start-up programme, new sub-programmes on innovation, e-europe, e-learning etc.
the growth and environment initiative has not received any more funds.
it also aims at a completely outdated form of environmental protection.
however, we will make a reservation on european regulation which, under the guise of protecting the environment (a term which is too exclusive), will only erase local traditions and customs which are an integral part of the culture of our lands, which is the opposite of the aim of this report, which we support but on which we will abstain for this reason.
you may for example be aware of the initiatives taken by the mediterranean environment agency or by the landes general council, acquitaine region, which recently organised a meeting on how to manage the primrose willow.
i would also like to know whether we could not give this species the status of 'pests' or 'non-commercial', because the problem with the jussie is that it is a plant that is sold for aquariums, that it is for sale over the counter and that when you get rid of your aquarium, it goes into the natural environment, which causes problems.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the effects of the nuclear accident.
in no document or other place have i been in favour of increasing the use of nuclear energy.
the green paper - which is available to the honourable member - clearly shows the increase in support, incentives and all kinds of support for the use of renewable energies.
the consequence of this is the discussion on the directive on the use of green electricity - electricity from renewable sources - or the collaboration we have had with the directorate-general for competition on the question of the treatment of aid to such sectors.
secondly, the green paper also raises the possibility of using types of compensation or cross-subsidy which, from conventional or traditional energy sources - coal, oil, gas, nuclear energy, or all of them - can serve as support for renewable energies.
finally, apart from the support for renewable energy, which i consider essential and which is not just a declaratory statement but an objective - and remember that for the first time specific and differentiated objectives are being set for each state, and this is done in the directive on green electricity - i consider it essential to maintain support for research in the nuclear sector, especially in the areas of safety, storage and treatment of waste, because burying it is not a solution, or in alternative issues such as the fusion system.
- mr president, commissioner, i asked you this question because, in fact, for the last 15 years or so, members of the european parliament have been working to ensure that renewable energies are taken into account.
the commission is beginning to integrate them, but it still seems that renewable energies are not the energy of the future, that they will remain an energy of the future.
and we see, we think that there is not enough investment, especially compared to what has been invested in the past for other energy sources.
on the other hand, compared to nuclear power, to nuclear-based electricity, which does not produce greenhouse gases, there has been a huge push for the fight against the greenhouse effect, which has been to say that nuclear power could indeed be an alternative against the greenhouse effect.
so it is in this sense that the question has been asked, to see if the commission is still on the same wavelength, namely to continue to develop renewable energies in the european union, but also elsewhere in the world, and not just as an energy supplement.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we are not in favour of subsidies which encourage over-industrialised fishing, fishing which takes everything without discrimination, even if it means wasting species and damaging food security and biodiversity, fishing which allows for the excessive increase in fleets, etc.
the information on the health risks to the population and to personnel on peacekeeping missions in the balkans and on the possible environmental consequences that depleted uranium could entail has caused great concern in europe.
last november, representatives of the un environment programme (unep) and the international atomic energy agency (iaea) visited kosovo.
this also reminds us of the importance of discussing the environmental and health impacts of military crisis management operations as the eu builds its crisis management capacity.
the question of the possible environmental consequences and health risks of depleted uranium also draws attention to a very important issue: the general environmental problems in the balkans.
the eu, through the commission's assistance programmes, supports the countries of the region in their efforts to cope with their environmental problems.
it was also agreed to make all information on this event available to the united nations environment programme.
the alliance has also made it quite clear that it is a military organisation and not a medical one and that it must therefore provide - and that is its intention - all the information needed by the european union so that the most qualified organisations, namely the world health organisation, the united nations environment programme and the international atomic energy agency, can draw the appropriate conclusions.
i am thinking here of the systematic destruction of the economic potential and ecological heritage not only of yugoslavia but also of the neighbouring countries - see the danube - and the confirmation of the massive use of weapons and ammunition in these conflicts, which not only cause countless innocent victims immediately, but also pose a lasting threat to the people who frequent the bombed areas.
far from being "marginal", the maintenance and enrichment of biodiversity (and thus of the diversity of ecosystems) is a major political issue, as it has global implications for our living conditions (including climate change).
if it had simply been a question of ensuring that european funds do not finance projects which destroy these remarkable ecosystems, i would have accepted it and voted for it, but it is unacceptable and unprecedented that one union policy is made conditional on respect for another and that environmental conditionality is, for example, made conditional on social conditionality.
this clearly indicates who it is in his interest to eliminate "infrastructure bubbles", including "transport and energy infrastructure", make the "financial system efficient", or ensure "a transparent and accountable institutional environment", a euphemism for standing up against what in the corruption environment bothers western investors.
- if the directives on the conservation of natural habitats, the disposal of pcbs and pcts and the protection of waters against nitrate pollution are only insufficiently applied in the member states, this does not in any way mean that these directives are bad and need to be changed, as some in this house are trying to make us believe.
these directives are in line with the aspirations of european citizens, who are demanding greater consideration for their environment and are calling for the european institutions to act as arbiters.
the numerous complaints and petitions registered by the committee on petitions concerning breaches of the environment and these directives bear witness to these expectations.
the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must, on the one hand, show its firmness towards the member states in order to ensure that they apply these directives and, on the other hand, stand firm against attempts to amend these directives before they have been able to show their full relevance, particularly in the fields of water pollution by nitrates and the protection and development of remarkable natural areas.
the priorities expressed by the commission are: better coherence between the different objectives of the cfp, in particular between conservation of resources, economic efficiency and employment in areas dependent on fisheries; better account being taken of the economic dimension of fisheries; better integration of environmental and fisheries policies; improvement of management tools, including the integration of multiannual tools; a more transparent decision-making process and the maintenance of the external dimension of the cfp.
there is a waste.
to deal with this diversity of problems, the european commission has used a good method by consulting widely with fisheries, environmental or producer organisations.
the effects of these weapons on military personnel, civilians, and the environment are still unknown.
moreover, even depleted uranium (20% less radioactive than natural uranium) is still a nuclear waste whose use is dangerous.
we all know that these weapons, used by nato in the gulf war (1991), in bosnia (1994-95) and in kosovo (1999), have had serious consequences for the civilian populations first bombed, for their environment, for the military, whether they belong to nato, the iraqi, bosnian, serb or kosovar armed forces.
on the union's comprehensive agenda, we will prioritise three areas: enlargement, employment and the environment.
unemployment is a gigantic waste of economic resources and, what is worse, of human knowledge and ambition.
it also covers investment in education and research, new technologies and entrepreneurship, environmental investment and gender equality.
the third important area is the environment.
the major environmental threats cannot be averted without active international cooperation.
eu cooperation in the field of the environment must be deepened.
the ecological perspective is often seen as backward, and the vision of a sustainable society as one that conflicts with goals of justice and increased material well-being.
i want the eu to lead the way towards a development where ecological, economic and social considerations interact and reinforce each other.
environmental concerns must be integrated into all areas of eu cooperation.
the sixth eu environment action programme must be considered further.
it will be valid for the next 10 years and should focus on clear and well-reasoned environmental objectives and environmental indicators.
the programme should be one of the cornerstones of the overall strategy for long-term sustainable development to be adopted by the european council in gothenburg.
last but certainly not least, the climate issue.
few things are as worrying as the risk that environmental degradation is about to create far-reaching and dangerous climate change.
climate change is at the heart of the eu's agenda.
the climate negotiations must be resumed.
environmental issues have a deep moral dimension.
the task of our generation is to leave behind a europe where the major environmental problems are solved.
we want to see more cooperation to meet the common challenges facing our continent, including threats to the environment and from international organised crime.
the traffic environment must be developed to be as safe as possible, but the driver is always responsible for his own safety and that of other road users.
the work we have undertaken has confirmed that knowledge, systems and technologies exist in europe to enable this type of activity, which facilitates the transport of goods in a safe and sustainable way.
firstly, i think it is essential to recall that the main objective is to promote sustainable transport, which is a long-term means of protecting our environment and avoiding congestion.
the road is thus a burden on all the costs borne by society: environmental costs and accident costs.
the question of infrastructure pricing is probably one of the most difficult to explain to the general public, but it is probably also the key to our goal of sustainable mobility, given the considerable growth forecast in the movement of both goods and people within the union.
the report is therefore well done and makes a solid contribution to the understanding and implementation of infrastructure charging policy, a key issue in guiding transport policy and in being able to put forward a policy which guarantees transport, sustainable mobility in the future, and to deal rationally with the extraordinary demands we are going to have to meet in the coming years.
the commission's infrastructure charging policy provides a framework for the reform of transport tariffs and taxes, in order to reflect environmental, infrastructure costs and manage transport demand.
and while i remain convinced of the validity of this approach to the cultivation of northern forests, i think that the report should have taken into account forests where biodiversity, such as in france, remains, as well as industries other than the paper industry.
similarly, we need to consider strengthening the link between the environment and road safety (to lead us, for example, to reconsider road signalling equipment to make it safer).
but we have to read between the lines to understand what it is exactly, and we come back to two of the weak points of this institution: the creation of an environmental tax and the war on road transport and the car.
it is obviously useless, since in france, for example, taking half of the national wealth for public authorities does not provide for the security of citizens, the realization of a collective well-being, the preservation of a living environment, or a coherent and effective transport policy.
this region is stagnating, sclerosized by theoretical political, economic and energy transition processes.
the economic and social situation is also fraught with dangers, and this was already a favourable environment for the rise of islamism in the 1980s.
we attach particular importance to the development of endogenous and sustainable development actions not mentioned in the feira conclusions, as well as to a gradual evaluation in this field, the implementation of substantial programmes on the environment and water, the relaunch of the start programme, and the participation of mediterranean third countries in the sixth framework programme for research and technological development.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy delivered a unanimous opinion on these various questions.
a decompartmentalised and open market with a sound and predictable legal and administrative environment is the best way to ensure that the very low levels of local, european and world-wide investment will increase.
good examples of this already exist in our sectoral regional cooperation programmes, for example on the environment, the cultural heritage and meda democracy.
the opening up of the service to passengers, which some are considering in the future, will also be an important, if not a crucial, test for the sustainability of this concept of public service.
the time has come to invest in real and practical ways to ensure that rail can live up to expectations and find its true place as the least polluting means of transport and one that contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i will not stop mentioning the alarmist forecasts of scientists on climate change, which are largely due to road transport.
- mr president, we all know the importance of rail transport for the proper development of human activities, for respect for the environment and for sustainable land use.
the choice of sites is made at the request of the public authorities without consulting the population, without environmental impact studies, or risk assessments.
we will need a lot of courage to set up a sustainable agriculture, which is concerned with the quality of the products, their safety and the environment.
mr president, the concern for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy stems from the disputes with the usa and canada over the european union's obligations under the wto and the implementation of the precautionary principle, which we hold very dear.
i would stress that these proposals are aimed at promoting european agriculture which respects the environment, animal welfare and human health.
europe has everything to gain from the sustainable economic and social development and political stability of this region on the other side of the mediterranean, europe's inland sea.
it only proposes an extremely dangerous solution, a genuine plan of military intervention under the guise of combating drug trafficking, criminalising small producers, destroying their crops by fumigations dangerous to man and the environment, condemning them to leave the land they exploit.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i hope therefore that we will soon be voting on a genuine framework text which will include all the measures necessary to safeguard our environment.
protecting against 'garbage ships' also means protecting the marine environment and the living and working conditions on board ships.
i therefore hope that the european parliament will follow this recommendation and give this committee on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships the opportunity to refer also to the community provisions governing these other two areas.
this will enable industry and environmental organisations to reach a consensus.
european citizens suffer daily from pollution, congestion and the risk of accidents resulting from an excessive reliance on the road, a reliance that has only worsened over the last thirty years.
the objective of sustainable mobility is thus closely linked to the revitalization of railways.
the european union already has a stockpile of 12 directives and three regulations aimed at ensuring stricter enforcement of regulations in the areas of ship safety, protection against pollution from ships, seafarers' training and qualification criteria and working conditions on board.
- the proposal by the rapporteur, mr bakopoulos, to set up a 'committee on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships', which would replace the existing committees, is a further step towards renationalising the community's maritime safety policy, but also an additional asset for improving the control of community and international enforcement.
the member states must therefore be required to apply the legislation in force, in particular that which regulates protection against pollution, the control of the training and qualifications of seafarers and the working conditions on board.
there is therefore urgency, especially as this directive is a decisive element in the fight against piracy (a fight which is particularly close to my heart) and as piracy is a real scourge of the information society, which is all the more evident in the digital environment as copies are and remain of an equivalent quality to the original.
this new and ever-changing environment raises many questions and concerns.
- mr president, commissioner, yesterday at the meeting of the environment and foreign affairs committees we just heard mr haavisto report on the findings of the experts.
the final compromise does not address the concerns of consumers, who want food safety to be guaranteed and the risk of gmos being released into the environment to be fully assessed.
only then can the release of gmos into the environment be authorized.
- mr president, the presence of gmos in our food, the uncertainties about their consequences for man and the environment are now public issues, and that is good.
this is due to the regulation of this instrument, but the funds programmed for 2000 will be fully depleted in the course of 2001. but we don't have any household waste there.
firstly, i believe that the european union's strategy for sustainable growth, full employment and greater social cohesion cannot be considered as already set.
i would also point out that if the objective of the internal market is not achieved for essential services such as energy and transport, it is not because of deregulation, but because of the lack of common infrastructure and public regulations.
– madam president, following yesterday's constructive debate, we meet today for parliament to vote on this directive which will be a cornerstone in the establishment of a harmonised legal framework on copyright in the digital environment.
we have no confidence in the agri-food trusts, whose action is motivated exclusively by the pursuit of maximum profit, even at the expense of consumer health and ecological balances.
- the new directive on the deliberate release of gmos was intended to 'include all direct or indirect ecological aspects'.
the question of environmental liability covering damage caused by gmos is thus postponed, as is the consideration of the potential long-term cumulative effects of the interaction of several gmos.
this is particularly the case for the restructuring of agriculture, the development of rural areas and the protection of the environment.
in addition, europe has signed up to the kyoto agreement, which requires it to reduce its output of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by an average of 8% by 2010. in other words, this international agreement becomes binding in 7 years.
today i am speaking on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, which voted unanimously on a report which is partly taken from the report of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy; i would like to end with the words 'in part'.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
the bullmann report soon dug in and proposed a host of other gaps in the areas of public spending orientation, quality, environment, productivity, employment, youth unemployment, social exclusion, poverty by age and sex, and so on.
the priorities cannot be confined to biotechnology, genomic research, ict and nuclear energy, and parliament should instead take action to ensure that knowledge is part of the common heritage, outside any cost-benefit criteria.
the civilian population, which is already suffering economically and health-wise - particularly in the suburbs of kinshasa - must not become the victim of the political indifference of our continent, nor of the total disinterest of investors and companies in the democratic republic of congo, especially in the areas of human rights, the environment and the rule of law.
is global warming an important issue from the point of view of global balances?
finally, in order to allow time, the report of the delegation to the conciliation committee on environmental inspections would be withdrawn, as would the report by mr wijkman, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on an action plan to improve the energy efficiency of the european community.
in the medium term, my group is certainly in favour of a thorough reform of the common agricultural policy, so that it no longer depletes the budget by illegitimately supporting the productivist agribusiness which is dangerous for human health and the environment.
we want a cap which no longer drives millions of animals to the stake, but which reserves its credits for genuine farmers by paying them a fair price for their products, so that they can live off sustainable agriculture, sustainable development and healthy food.
the report by mr gemelli rightly denounces the deterioration of the economic, social and environmental situation in developing countries, the increase in poverty and the negative impact of globalisation on these countries.
however, the basic principle of a sustainable development policy must be borne in mind.
consumer confidence has been lost, and it will only be restored by the development of sustainable agriculture.
a5-0040/2001 by mr hatzidakis, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the communication from the commission on the report of the standing working party on the safety of the transport of radioactive materials in the european union (com (98) 0155 - c4-0034/1999 - 1998/2083)
- mr president, commissioner, once again the european parliament has missed the opportunity to speak the truth on nuclear energy.
once again, the debate on the safety of dangerous goods is being avoided, as if nuclear energy in europe were the preserve of experts and nuclear democrats and that debate necessarily meant passion and controversy.
while much of the radioactive waste is small packages destined for laboratories and medicine, it is not the most dangerous.
the transport of radioactive waste is the most dangerous because of its radioactivity.
this is where the question of the nuclear industry comes in, and particularly the question of the reprocessing of nuclear waste, since it is the reprocessing in the hague and sellafield plants that causes the most radioactive transport.
without reprocessing, no more transport of radioactive waste.
this is the simplest solution, and it is possible because we know that reprocessing is an economic and ecological aberration in the present state of knowledge.
the latest upsurge in the transport of highly radioactive materials concerns waste from nuclear power stations fed by mox, which is being stored in the hague illegally.
the greens do not want to understand the undeniable environmental benefits of nuclear power.
the transport of radioactive materials shall comply with the rules of the international atomic energy agency.
nuclear power is a necessary energy solution because it promotes prosperity and cleanliness.
it is part of the commission's leadership's major efforts to redefine our trade policy and put trade at the service of sustainable development.
this time it is not about negotiating trade concessions in return for environmental or social clauses, but rather about negotiating trade differently so that it better respects societal models and public regulatory requirements.
for example, i am struck by the fact that among the new concerns to be taken into account, product safety, environmental protection, food quality, animal welfare are always mentioned, and rightly so, but never food independence.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
- as we know, any debate which touches on nuclear energy, whether directly or indirectly, tends to become very emotional and to become a debate on principles.
and even though several eu member states have decided to stop reprocessing or to 'get out of the nuclear business' gradually, transport to countries that have signed reprocessing contracts still needs to take place in order to repatriate their waste currently stored at reprocessing sites.
my group is of course aware that a report on the transport of radioactive materials is not a report on nuclear energy in general, but the safest thing would be to have nothing to transport.
it is certainly important, considering the time and energy we and the commission have had to devote to it, but certainly not in relation to its importance.
- mr president, i fully support the objective of promoting transparency and public access to environmental information.
in august 2000, i was so desperate that i called the director-general for the environment and the secretary-general of the european commission to obtain information on the life programme - the preservation of lake grandlieu - apparently marked "defence secret".
the commissioner suggested that i should go directly to the project manager, who was under no obligation to inform me, and who did not inform me, which is not surprising, given that the programme has led to a real ecological disaster.
- it is the responsibility of the european union to regulate emissions from combustion plants.
the wind knows no borders and emissions from large combustion plants cross all member states and the candidate countries.
although i am in favour of reducing emissions, we must be pragmatic and not impose criteria which the industry cannot meet at the moment.
the prevention of conflict cannot therefore be separated from a policy of sustainable development, aimed at a better distribution of wealth and the establishment of genuine democracy at world level.
sense of proportion in the media playing "apocalypse now"; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the foodstuffs and the quality of the environment.
i believe that we are here to try to provide some answers and above all to be able to dialogue with the commission on a particularly important subject, which concerns the imbalance in water resources in the european territory, an imbalance which is linked to the different geographical, geological and climatic situations, but also linked to the result of human activity: urbanization, deforestation and pollution.
world hunger, climate change, environmental protection, all of these would be solved tomorrow by the benefits of biotechnology.
- mr president, biotechnology is indeed an important means of combating certain diseases, reducing the use of chemicals in agriculture and protecting the environment.
biotechnology, viewed from a strictly industrial and commercial point of view, risks aggravating all the current problems: trade imbalances, damage to the environment, industrial concentrations and unemployment, the strengthening of the power of multinationals.
it is preparing a strategic communication on biotechnology by the end of 2001. i call on the commission to do everything possible to take full advantage of the contribution of biotechnology to economic growth, to environmental protection, but with full regard for ethical, environmental and societal issues which i believe require a dialogue between politicians, scientists and citizens.
we can only welcome it as a recognition of the economic, social and environmental impact of biotechnology.
in its report to the stockholm european council, which takes place next week, the commission underlines the importance of biotechnology as a frontier technology for growth and employment, and as a tool for sustainable development.
the aim of the text is to "create a favourable business climate".
as a gesture of devotion, the eu is preparing to offer new public contracts in energy, transport and even intellectual property.
in agriculture, on the contrary, the target is extremely broad, even indeterminate and infinite, since it is a question of implementing productions that may affect the environment in general or the health of millions of consumers.
it seems that today the benefits are for the benefit of the firms alone, while the risks remain the liability of the citizens and the environment.
- mr president, commissioner, under the rules of procedure of the european parliament, the committee on employment and social affairs is responsible for 'protecting living and working conditions, including the working environment'.
– mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank mrs roth-behrendt and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for their support and also for the discussion today.
i would like to congratulate mrs roth-behrendt and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for the many suggestions made in their report which aim to improve health and consumer protection not least by providing consumers with more relevant information.
- the next item is the report (a5-0092/2001) by mr sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission green paper on the environmental problems of pvc.
compensation must also cover downstream and other rural activities, such as poultry and game farming, and the many tourist activities which, although not affected by the disease, are losing markets because of the psychoses in the environment.
- mr president, commissioner, on the occasion of this debate on foot-and-mouth disease, i would first of all like to express my deep solidarity with all the actors in the livestock sector, who are already severely affected by the bse crisis which has upset the markets, and in particular with all the cattle farmers who, for the vast majority of them, work well, with rigor, according to practices which respect both the environment and the animals they rear, and who are now being hit hard by this new crisis which is plunging them into disarray.
- ladies and gentlemen, very soon the white paper on the common transport policy will open a new debate on sustainable development.
a communication on biofuels is being prepared to see how they can provide answers to key policy issues such as transport dependency on petroleum products, security of energy supply, greenhouse gas emissions and pollution.
many of our citizens are interested in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and they even send us very interesting projects, but we are not able to understand and analyse them technically.
the stockholm council thus focused on the sustainability of social protection systems, a subject which the previous council, the council of nice, had expressly reserved to national competence.
the effect would also be beneficial for the environment, since we now know that in this area, the jackfruit tree is often harmful.
the compulsory complementarity of cereal crops with leguminous and fodder crops for the purpose of obtaining subsidies can thus contribute to the establishment of ecological sites and contribute to soil improvement.
mr bush, jr., is not so much a man about the kyoto protocol on climate change!
the committee on agriculture and rural development as a whole has therefore proposed a compromise for you, commissioner, for the year 2001: it does not only concern organic farming, but also any farm which is implementing an agri-environmental programme.
the second is the environmental benefits of oilseed protein crops: biodiversity, crop rotation, nitrogen balance.
the means are there: support for biofuels, the safety net for oilseeds, supplementary aid for protein crops, the intensification of public research efforts and agri-environmental aid for farms which include fodder legumes in the rotation.
the use of european public funds for the development of public facilities with the aim of improving the planning of the territory, rebalancing transport modes and combating pollution is undoubtedly a priority.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the whole of parliament wanted to go further, that is to say, to give a positive signal to farmers in general and, at any rate, initially, to those who also do agri-environmental work.
if it had not been for the announcement of the joint franco-german decision not to set a deadline for the full liberalisation of energy markets in order to better control all its consequences and effects, it would certainly not have been mentioned in the newspapers and on television.
(the sitting was suspended at 1.25 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- mr president, commissioner, while it was regrettable to see in the hague the failure of the signatory states to the convention on global warming to implement the kyoto protocol, it is also welcome that there have been healthy political reactions condemning the shameful provocation of president bush, who, in trying to undermine the commitments to combat greenhouse gas emissions, is merely rewarding the american oil lobby which financed his election campaign.
we must show and prove to the world that we, as co-responsible for the current pollution of the planet, are actually and concretely engaged in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions.
- mr president, in view of the unilateral decision of the united states, i would like to recall the conclusions of the experts of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, who tell us that if nothing is done to curb the current trend, temperatures could rise by 1.4 to 5.8 degrees by 2100, with disastrous consequences for the planet - sea level rise, more intense droughts, more sudden floods, disappearance of islands, coastal regions and deltas, famines and epidemics, disappearance of species - affecting the poorest populations first and foremost.
at a time when people are rightly concerned about the prospect of climate change, with its disastrous consequences, the united states, the world's largest consumer of energy, is taking a totally irresponsible and dangerous step.
as we know from experience, verbal protest will not be enough, it would be wise, commissioner, for effective pressure to include environmental clauses in international trade negotiations.
i do not think that employment is at odds with the environment.
once again, it is the rule of the primacy of money, which is opposed to human and sustainable development, which is the indispensable ambition affirmed by the european union.
- the decision of the president of the united states to reject even the timid commitments of the kyoto protocol on the emission into the atmosphere of six greenhouse gases is obviously totally irresponsible from the point of view of the environment and the interests of humanity.
have they been able to stop their national trusts from dumping their waste in poor countries?
are they even capable of forcing industrial firms to respect the working environment and the health of their own workers?
the media are reporting that the water level has dropped since yesterday, but this is not true everywhere and the most difficult part is still to be done, because then we will have to deal with the problem of restoration due to the subsidence of the land and the pollution problems already present.
i would add other sorts of disabilities which, in a very poor environment, are often totally ignored.
after 14 years, however, it is the responsibility of the european union to act differently, because in the face of this human tragedy, interventions remain largely focused on the technical level of energy.
this self-serving collusion between political elites and nuclear lobbies ignores the total disapproval of ukrainian citizens and the potential for renewable energy and energy savings in ukraine.
this moral and humanitarian duty must be fulfilled with resources and a budget commensurate with the ecological disaster.
it is also the responsibility of the who, which is directly complicit in this tragedy, by virtue of the incestuous agreement ratified in 1957 with the international atomic energy agency, which is of course pro-nuclear and has since become its legal censor in nuclear matters.
passivity in the face of a deteriorating economic situation and passivity in the face of the conditions that should be created for the sustainable development of the european union.
in other words, monetary and fiscal policy must not serve either to regulate the economy or to promote sustainable development.
what is predominant are structural reforms conceived only as deregulation, as a kind of panacea, when in reality the new problem, and this is the new economy, is a market organization designed for sustainable development and social cohesion, and this presupposes strong elements of public economics.
we have no policy in this area: political aid, energy, everything has to be done, transport policy, the same thing, industrial policy, there is no such thing.
as for the air interventions on serbia and kosovo by the major powers, especially the european powers, they did not diminish but, on the contrary, aggravated the climate of interethnic hostility developed and maintained by the nationalist organisations.
- the resolution on nuclear safety presented to the european parliament 15 years after chernobyl underlines the seriousness of this major accident and its consequences for health and the environment.
it is careful not to endorse the replacement of nuclear energy in ukraine ("russian and old") by nuclear energy ("western and modern").
it advocates a sustainable policy, including energy savings and the use of renewable energy sources.
nuclear-powered states act as if our societies could manage for centuries an energy with immeasurable risks and never go through a crisis.
there is a complacency, which i find rather disconcerting, in the face of the deterioration of the economy and a refusal to think about the conditions to be met to be part of sustainable development.
once again, the economic policy thus presented is not in keeping with the ambition of sustainable development, which would presuppose a dynamic of public investment, a market organization with strong industrial ambitions.
that is why my group is returning to the economic policies of the union in this report with the proposal to introduce a tax on speculative movements in order to control them, to reduce their volatility and above all to raise resources to be invested in the social and environmental fields.
in article 5 you speak of 'the political priority of improving the quality and sustainability of public finances'.
is there a public finances which is not sustainable because it is ephemeral?
- mr president, by imposing standards for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment, the european parliament is making a major contribution to the 'greening' of this industry.
in the end, the environment won the battle, with the proponents of an innovative industry in electrical and electronic products opposing traditional manufacturers who were working hard to delay the deadline for taking charge of the recycling of this waste.
while the rapporteur is to be congratulated for choosing the clean products route, it is to be regretted that the commission has not dealt with electrical and electronic waste and the accompanying chemical substances at the same time.
environmental considerations are gaining ground in this report and are evidence of a growing political awareness of the danger of industrial waste, especially electrical and electronic waste, proliferating.
in the end, this forced passage will be a win-win for everyone: the manufacturers, the consumers and the environment.
the florenz report on waste electrical and electronic equipment has therefore benefited from significant environmental guarantees which prove that european industry must be designed, for citizens and politicians, with an eco-culture in mind.
even with amendments such as those expressing environmental concerns or the one proposing "the introduction of a tobin-type tax on capital movements", the text remains a glorification of pro-employer, anti-worker policies pursued by the states and an endorsement of the current functioning of the economy.
- the next item is the report (a5-0150/2001) by mrs stihler, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council recommendation on the consumption of alcohol by children and adolescents (com (2000) 736 - c5-0020/2001 - 2001/0801 (cns)).
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mrs stihler, and the committee on the environment for their constructive work.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0133/2001), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on general product safety [14614/1/2000 - c5-0045/2001 - 2000/0073 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs gonzález álvarez).
this goes hand in hand with the re-cultivation of the proteins in the greenhouse, in a good way, although in our view the green group's approach is still timid.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
- the agenda calls for the commission communication on the strategy for sustainable development.
secondly, products destined for industrialized countries should benefit from access to guaranteed minimum prices, not be subject to price fluctuations, whereas ldc economies are too often dependent on the international environment and dependent on the export of one or two basic products.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- mr president, the scrupulous care taken by the ecofin council to anticipate the long-term impact of pension funding on public finances makes one wonder whether an equivalent concern for sustainability will be mobilised to avoid the regrettable long-term effects, for example, of non-harmonisation of taxation or investment in the nuclear industry.
in line with these political objectives, the council is willing to contribute to the process and to help create a climate of trust and confidence between the parties concerned.
this path is not a smooth one, but the prospect of future membership of the european union multiplies the sorely needed pro-reform energy.
i want to assure you that we have no shortage of this energy.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which will be presented to the european parliament in the autumn.
the most affected are those who were already the most deprived and who cannot find financial and psychological support in their family environment.
the european union must make every effort to meet and enforce the kyoto commitments within the time limits and to implement a sustainable development policy.
europe must not slacken its efforts to convince its partners that disregard for nature can have terrible social, environmental and economic consequences.
this is the priority demand of our group's resolution, which also stresses the need to strengthen action to protect ecosystems and to combat pollution which may be partly responsible for the increasingly frequent climate disasters.
many infrastructures have been damaged or destroyed, businesses have lost their means of production and have to be relocated, not to mention the degradation of the natural environment itself.
finally, action must also be taken to combat the consequences of climate change.
we are facing a sustainable disruption in the sense of sustainable development.
but it is absolutely imperative that the new elements of environmental consideration and sustainable development be integrated into future spatial planning policies, particularly in the context of the structural funds and the common agricultural policy.
but this is no different from the position of the german government, and this was expressed at the stockholm european council, which wanted to show that it was concerned about developing in europe an alternative to what we would call here the industrial scheme of extreme liberalisation of the energy sectors.
i am referring here to energy policy, environmental protection, sustainable development, security, social and territorial solidarity, as well as local development, geographical equalization and the right of everyone to energy.
for all these reasons, commissioner, i ask the european commission to carry out a rapid progress report before we even start the second phase of market liberalisation, so that we can preserve the european public energy service.
the opening up of the energy sector to competition is strongly opposed by the trade unions, who refuse to allow the right to energy to be regulated by money.
energy plays a strategic role in the economies of the member states and should not be regarded as a commodity like any other.
the commission communication, which will be delivered by mr busquin, will deal with the specific programme implementing the 2000-06 framework programmes of the european community, on the one hand, for research, technological development and demonstration activities, and of the european atomic energy community, on the other hand, for research and training activities.
as regards the joint debate on environmental policy, the council has informed us that the swedish minister for the environment, mr larsson, wishes to be present at the debate on mrs hulthén's report.
it would be put before mrs myller's report, also on behalf of the committee on the environment, on a community action programme for the environment.
there are also elements of clarification and clarification, since the new instruments require it, and we have also planned an information session with the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on 5 june.
developing technologies using smarter processes, materials that waste less energy and material, a large number of sectors will be affected, both the automotive sector and the aerospace sector and others.
as regards the problem of choice, i think i have told you that the main priorities, and i have already had the opportunity to answer this question in parliament, are, on the one hand, work by the ipts and discussions with the cres at the level of the various representatives of the scientific councils of the member states, and on the other hand, the general trend in the scientific and industrial community, whether it be the genomic position, nanotechnologies, the problem of the information society, food security, sustainable development, on which i agree with you that the issues of transport, the environment and energy need to be spelled out more precisely.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of innovation, this time in the field of sustainable development, in the specific programmes.
we invite all our colleagues to come and share their views on sustainable development, energy, renewable energy, the environment and ecology in particular, so that we can take them into account and make proposals in this area which is of great interest to us.
these institutional gestures of a 'federation of nation states' or, as the slogan heard during an election campaign, a 'united europe of states', cannot conceal the reality that today's europe is merely a market europe, sprinkled with some environmental concerns and dominated by media finance.
- mr president, a real environmental policy must be pursued in europe, to respect the environment, our environment.
however, we must ensure that environmental policy in europe is not ideological but is based on the notion of responsibility.
let us apply the principle of subsidiarity in the management of pollution problems.
for example, urban air pollution must be dealt with by local authorities with maximum freedom of action.
the pollution of a river's waters affects the river states.
on the other hand, global climate change is global.
it is strange that the concept of sustainable development has been around for 15 years now and has remained alive despite so many people criticising it over the years for being dull, difficult to put into practice, difficult to see concrete results, etc.
but it does offer us an opportunity to link economic, environmental and social policy together and to see not only the problems but also the opportunities that lie within this concept.
almost all environmental organisations, social organisations and even large business organisations have formulated their proposals and sent them to the commission.
it can be said that the commission's proposal for a sustainable development strategy has also remained the same during the examination of this proposal.
at the same time, our sustainable development strategy also emphasises, as marit paulsen pointed out, that we must ensure that we get rid of what is an inconsistent policy and get rid of subsidies that are actually not good for the environment and that do not promote sustainable development.
i also think that it is important, as was also mentioned in the debate, that we look at how the european parliament and our own institutions should be changed in such a way that we too can live up to the idea of sustainable development and create these links between economic and social issues and environmental issues.
i would like to say that i have, at any rate, from the outset, made it very clear that we have good legislation, solid legislation, as was also shown in the evaluation of the fifth environmental action programme.
finally, i would just like to comment on how we define sustainable development, because it was raised in the blokland report.
notice that in the commission's strategy for sustainable development we start by quoting the brundtland commission report and its definition of sustainable development.
several speakers have addressed the issue of economic growth and its impact on the environment.
there is a little outdated idea that economic growth always leads to environmental degradation.
however, we know, as has also been pointed out, that poor economic development entails great risks of environmental degradation.
the importance of being able to separate the curves of economic development from those of environmental impact, is becoming increasingly central to the environmental policy debate.
at the same time, greenhouse gas emissions have fallen by 4%.
this means that for every million euros of production, greenhouse gas emissions are reduced by about 35%.
at the same time, we must be even more successful and ensure that it is not just a marginal reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
the nox emissions in sweden per million euro produced are today about 60 per cent lower.
the corresponding figure for sox emissions is about 80 percent.
it is now time to step up our efforts even more, and to do so in those areas where we have not been able to detect a reduction in environmental impact today and where economic growth has been a contributing factor.
as i said in my opening speech, i regard it as a central issue in environmental policy thinking, now and for a long time to come.
at the global level, it is truly astonishing that we have today subsidies, by some estimates, amounting to 200 billion dollars a year to non-sustainable energy, i.e.
it is an unimaginably large sum, which shows that instead of internalizing environmental costs, we have actually externalized environmental costs and carried them elsewhere.
the main line of development in the eu, and indeed globally, must be to eliminate this type of subsidy and to focus instead on a real internalisation of environmental costs in prices.
biodiversity has also been mentioned here, and it is a little bit of a heart issue for me.
i would point out that we have major problems with biodiversity in europe too, something that very few people are really aware of.
the state of marine biodiversity is much worse than that of land biodiversity.
if european citizens could see with their own eyes what we are really doing to the seabed and to seawater and the effects this has on biodiversity, it would probably be a revolution in environmental policy in the eu.
it is therefore important to integrate environmental considerations into fisheries policy and to consider marine ecosystems as important components of the biodiversity we must work to preserve.
it has also been pointed out by jonckheer that sectoral focus is at odds with environmental policy in the eu.
a5-0175/2001 by mrs myller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a community action programme for the environment for the period 2001-2010 (com (2001) 31 - c5-0032/2001 - 2001/0029 (cod)).
mr president, on the eve of the gothenburg summit, it was necessary to reconcile environment and economic growth, that is to say, to combat environmental degradation while giving businesses the means to develop.
it suggests ratifying kyoto to combat the greenhouse effect effectively and insists on the need for greater protection of the cultural and natural heritage, as my colleague mr de veyrac has stressed in his report, on which we agree.
finally, the objectives of strengthening the protection of biodiversity through the natura 2000 network are of concern.
it is very likely that the environment will be one of the first areas to be installed, given the context.
is this the way to protect the environment?
there were actually two choices after i decided to say ‘yes’ to the question in the hearing about whether i wanted to present a sixth environment action programme: either the choice of being criticised for being too ambitious and thus unrealistic, or being too detailed and thus not visionary enough.
i have spent many sleepless nights thinking about whether it was a good answer to say ‘yes, we should make a sixth environment action programme’ since it has been heavily criticised.
we have a solid base of more than 200 legal acts in the environment.
there is a lack of understanding from different institutions and from member states in actually wanting to carry out the necessary work for the environment.
we would have added, and parliament and council would have added a number of details and included even more issues in the environmental programme.
we have so many good amendments that actually enhance this programme and we welcome those amendments that clarify the text and add some precision to the actions being proposed: i include amendment no 77 on allowing environmental criteria to be taken into account in public purchasing.
of course, we could have used concepts such as 'ecological footprint' or 'factor 4' or 'factor 10', but then the programme would have been slightly different.
we feel that it will be an invaluable contribution to creating an operational, dynamic and ultimately successful sixth environment action programme.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0177/2001) by mrs schörling, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a council directive on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment (c5-0118/01 - 1996/0304 (cod)).
it is indeed an important new instrument that will strengthen the integration of the environmental considerations into decision-making and i particularly welcome the agreement of the consultation committee on a joint text confirmed on 21 march.
some significant improvements have been made from the common position to the final directive, some have entered the directive, such as the introduction of monitoring or the strengthening of provisions on the quality of the environmental report.
this is proof of the contribution to environmental improvement that the european community can and should continue to make.
other steps will follow to further improve the protection of the environment and the road safety aspects of tyres.
finally, the dimension of a europe that is turning towards the countries of the south, especially africa, which is sinking into economic, health and ecological misery, which is not really a priority and nothing is planned for a pure and simple cancellation of the debt of the third world countries and an increase in aid, but also the absence of any thought on a rebalancing of the cfa franc against the dollar, the yen and our euro, will reinforce a growing imbalance.
- the french socialist delegation has always defended and encouraged the strengthening of the positive relations between agriculture and the environment.
this is the case with environmental responsibility.
- we shall vote in favour of mrs riitta myller's report, particularly because it sheds light on the fundamental problem posed by the council's proposals on the sixth community environmental action programme.
but the clarification of objectives (what is sustainable development?)
when it comes to dealing with the ecological crisis and defending the collective interests of the population, it is content with very general professions of faith.
the ecological crisis, now man-made, is fuelled by the predatory dynamic of this liberal capitalism promoted by the council.
the implementation of a sustainable development policy requires a radical change of direction in the economic field.
the choice is between defending the major shareholders and meeting ecological requirements (as well as the social needs of the majority).
- the three reports on environment and development, which will be voted on in plenary on 31 may 2001, will set the tone for the preparations of the european parliament for the gothenburg summit of the fifteen.
ten years after the concept of sustainable development was recognised as the development system that can reconcile economy and ecology, despite an armada of standards and regulations, globally, the environment has suffered more from development than it has benefited from it.
while the concept of sustainable development seems to be understood by the commission and some member states, it is not generally understood by the fifteen.
some members of the commission even continue to think of economic development in terms of duration, adjusting it to an environmental tip.
yet the european union is draping itself in terms of sustainable development, while its agricultural, economic, transport, energy, foreign and development policies are stubbornly proving the opposite.
the environmental aspect is always the last wheel of the cart.
the resolutions have been able to incorporate in concrete terms our responsibilities and obligations in the face of the continuing degradation of the planet, its warming and the disappearance of biodiversity, and they recall that only a reorientation of policies could attempt to reverse these trends.
in this sense, the abolition of subsidies with a negative impact on the environment, eco-taxes, environmental responsibility, the subordination of the wto reform to the environmental component, the annual assessment of policy progress and the use of credible criteria are in the right direction.
despite the great clarity of policy in dealing with the challenges of global warming and the oral and written commitments in treaties, directives and other international agreements, the actual achievement of these wishes remains very modest - for the record, it would require an 80 to 90% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions over 50 years to halt the warming process.
will they have the heart and courage to change course and bracket and dare to tackle the reorientation of the cap, polluting transport and energy?
otherwise, they will be faced with the economic, social, environmental and financial consequences of their political inconsistency.
mr president, since this morning we have been talking specifically about ozone and its serious effects on human health, but also on ecosystems and the environment as a whole.
i know that at that point there will inevitably be a breach of the limit values, what is commonly known as an ozone peak.
what can we do to meet the kyoto protocol and address the problem of climate change?
we know that it is human activity, industry, motor traffic, which are causing the exceeding of the limit levels of ozone in our urban environments, but this ozone then, with the winds, and depending on the terrain, spreads to areas which should be preserved.
early warning systems in the event of ozone levels exceeding the limit values which may be harmful to the health of vulnerable persons such as children, the elderly, and persons with cardiac or respiratory problems must be effective.
local authorities must take the right measures in terms of urban planning, in the context of sustainable development, without, however, undermining the competitiveness of our enterprises.
finally, there is an urgent need to recruit qualified staff in social and environmental matters, who have hitherto been the poor parents of the aid and development programmes developed in brussels.
and how can we deal with the sustainable development that you are promoting as president-in-office of the council, when we know what it is already costing the european union?
how much will it cost and how will we finance sustainable development for developing countries?
how are we going to finance renewable energy, how are we going to finance universal access to clean water, how are we going to finance, finally, the disposal of hazardous waste?
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0179/2001), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common positions of the council with a view to the adoption of european parliament and council regulations amending:
the commission.
these proposals for draft regulations to protect the community's forests against air pollution and fires have been the subject of negotiations and discussions within our institutions for almost two years.
the commission would like, in particular, to welcome the positive contribution of the rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mrs torres marques, as well as the helpful ideas put forward by mrs plooij-van gorsel, in her opinion on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
mrs lulling also referred to environmental issues.
the european commission, the committee on the environment and the committee on women's rights, which were asked for their opinions, opted for this third approach.
president prodi and others have today stressed the importance of tackling the really difficult issues and starting to deal with them, such as the environment, the free movement of persons and the free movement of capital.
we are done with the environmental issues with the four candidate countries.
many have also taken up sustainable development and environmental issues.
we'll be pushing the climate issues at the summit and discussing them with president bush.
we will do our best to make important progress on environmental issues in gothenburg.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after erika i, which initially tried to prevent environmental disasters by means of oil spills, erika ii, which complements it, also wants to be an instrument capable of properly assessing the consequences of such disasters and, in particular in the report which has been entrusted to me, of implementing better compensation for the victims concerned.
at present there is an international system of liability and compensation for damage caused by oil pollution from ships, as established by the 1969 clc convention and the 1971 fipol convention, both of which were amended by the 1992 protocols.
the united states, which has its own compensation scheme, the oil pollution act of 1990, is not a party to the agreement.
how can we not be in favour of, on the one hand, taking care of all pollution ... (the president invites the speaker to conclude)... and, on the other hand, financial accountability for all those involved?
we are thus protecting europe's marine and coastal environment, but we are also giving more rights to the captains and crews of the ship, including the most important right to avoid accidents at sea and thus protect themselves.
the extension of the fund's scope of action to include pollution caused by harmful and dangerous substances is essential.
we must no longer be satisfied with a fund for compensation for damage caused by oil pollution, as the sinking of the ivoli sun off the coast of brittany has tragically shown.
the proposal to make the owner of a ship responsible for marine pollution contribute to the compensation of victims seems to me to be a good one because it goes in the direction of making all the actors involved in maritime transport responsible.
it is a significant and positive change that may put an end to practices that are dangerous and harmful to our environment.
the french minister for the environment, for his part, had felt it unnecessary to shorten his holiday in réunion.
it is true that mrs voynet and her green colleagues have other concerns than ecology, the number of seats the socialists will give them in the next parliamentary elections, the legalization of drugs, gay marriage, abortion, the legalization of immigrants who have entered france clandestinely, the protection of the lives of murderers in the united states - all subjects which leave little room for the environment.
the 1996 conventions on compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea and the 2001 bunker convention on civil liability for damage in connection with pollution from oil-bunker bunkers are neither implemented nor ratified.
but this cannot lead to an obligation on our states to allow old ships with unskilled crews and serious environmental hazards to approach their coasts.
all these measures, even the wisest, fall short of the threats to our nations' coasts - ecological threats, of course - and perhaps some embarrassing questions should be asked to answer them.
but the threats are not only ecological.
the restoration of maritime security in our countries, as in many other areas, does not require new european regulations so much as governments whose policy is based on simple principles: energy independence, maintenance of a genuine national navy, reduction of the burden and protection of frontiers, including maritime frontiers.
the aim of this cascade regulation is to establish an effective legal arsenal to ensure maritime safety after the many disasters and to prevent pollution.
the extension of compensation to environmental losses is fundamental for us.
this would be the first time that a financial assessment of environmental costs would be quantified and that the damage would be compensated for the restoration of nature.
this economic and ecological disaster has caused many businesses to fail, unemployment to rise, and pollution to our environment.
- mr president, on the esclopé report, we are not opposed to a european compensation fund, in particular to ensure, and i quote: 'equitable compensation for damage caused by pollution in the waters of the european union, resulting from the transport of hydrocarbons by sea'.
i think it is absolutely essential that europe should legislate, with tough legislation on the practices of degassing which, as you know, are, in terms of the environment, even more aggressive than the accidents we have experienced.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that we woke up to the environmental and safety risks associated with shipping, and in particular with tankers.
while we europeans can have a very significant impact on the state of our marine environment, we must always remember that we are not alone in the world, even after enlargement.
- mr president, mr rapporteur, mr rolf, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the security of energy supplies is not new in the european union.
in the same vein, the initiatives taken by the european commission in the context of euro-mediterranean cooperation in the energy field are to be welcomed.
the european union has every reason to intensify dialogue through the euro-mediterranean energy forum.
the reduction of our dependence on oil-exporting countries also requires a diversification of energy sources.
i am thinking, of course, of renewable energy sources and biofuels.
but i am also thinking of nuclear energy, although i know that there are many opponents of nuclear energy here.
of course, we must insist on the need for research to limit as much as possible the production of waste and the risks to safety.
another part of our strategy must focus on the rationalisation of energy savings and i welcome the commission's proposal to submit to the gothenburg council a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources for more efficient use of energy.
this treaty recognized the specific nature of these regions and defined them both by their handicaps and their difficulties, linked to their remoteness, insularity, often hostile terrain and climate, and sometimes even economic dependence.
- while we abstain on the mastorakis report establishing a european maritime safety agency, we will vote for the sterckx report because it provides for concrete measures to limit the risks of pollution and the endangerment of the lives of crew.
the agency will be used to coordinate training, scientific and technical assistance to member states for the application of legislation, the collection of data on marine pollution, monitoring and possible proposals for changes to existing legislation.
the agency is also desired by almost all the actors in the marine environment.
it is perfectly legitimate for members of parliament, local elected representatives, associations for the protection of seafarers' rights and environmental protection to be part of the agency's board of directors.
- this regulation will allow the establishment of a fund for compensation for damage caused by oil pollution in european waters.
- i should like to focus my remarks on the question of compensation for victims of oil pollution, which our assembly has rightly proposed to extend to pollution by dangerous products.
the current system of limiting the financial liability of shipowners (which is scandalous in itself) and of self-limitation of the liability of oil charterers (in the framework of a fipol with capped resources and unrelated to the real cost of the pollution caused) results in tragically inadequate coverage of the damage caused to victims.
it is unacceptable that the victims, or more generally the taxpayers, should be forced to substitute themselves financially for those responsible for the act of pollution.
the commission therefore proposes the creation of a specifically european fund (cope) operating on the principle of member states' subrogation to the parties involved in oil pollution actions.
in these circumstances, victims may face the same difficulties as, for example, the erika victims, namely the problems of proof of pollution and refusal of payment by companies.
- it is important that member states give serious consideration to reducing their dependence on energy supplies from outside the european union.
on the other hand, the problem of climate change linked to the greenhouse effect has forced us to respect international commitments.
the european union has a duty to do more by increasing humanitarian aid, of course, and above all by closely associating itself with the efforts of the united nations to create a climate of reconciliation which, in my view, would be greatly facilitated by the deployment in the country of a peacekeeping force, similar to the one that had played a beneficial role between 1998 and last february.
in this context, the commission, together with the central african republic, has recently finalised a country support strategy aimed at promoting good governance and a more stable, social and institutional environment as prerequisites for sustainable development.
firstly, there is the climate of persecution against the opposition, trade unionists have been arrested, the ballot box has been inflated by a million votes.
from that moment on, the commission, the european union, commissioner, must denounce the responsibility of these international oil companies, which not only do not care about the environment, but also have no concern for the interests of the people, much less for democracy.
these concern not only some technical aspects of the directive, like disinfection of holdings, or other contaminated materials and sampling of suspected pigs, but also some more substantial and sensitive issues, like marker vaccination and the introduction of a ban on feeding pigs with catering waste.
i can fully support amendment no 2, but we do not think that it is necessary either, because the principles it deals with are already in line with the community's fundamental position on sustainable and responsible fishing.
- madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, in gothenburg there was a lot of talk about 'sustainable development', a nebulous concept, but a trend.
it is no doubt to be welcomed that the member states are willing to introduce public health and environmental concerns into all policies imposed by brussels.
i would also remind you that the draft directive aims to create a framework which will facilitate a significant increase in the production of electricity from renewable energy sources.
this directive addresses several major concerns: sustainable development, environmental protection, compliance with kyoto commitments, but also diversification of our sources of supply, reduction of the union's energy dependence and, finally, creation of new jobs.
on the other hand, the question of whether or not to include waste incineration in the definition of renewable energy.
it is to be feared that this use of waste will in fact justify its production, which does not seem to me to be a good solution.
in conclusion, mr president, as an activist and supporter of renewable energy, i welcome the progress made, but would like to point out the difficulties that remain in a world where the market and the search for low costs and low prices in the short term are the priority.
the only unresolved issue is whether waste incineration should be considered as a renewable energy source.
therefore, the incineration of unsorted household waste should not be encouraged by this directive or by any future support scheme for renewable energy sources.
one of the most profound disagreements between the two legislative bodies is whether national renewable energy targets should be binding or merely indicative.
the national indicative targets should be consistent with the overall indicative target of 12% of gross domestic energy consumption in 2010 coming from renewable energy sources.
- in january 2001, the swedish presidency of the european union modestly announced three priorities: environment, enlargement and employment.
similarly, the nine paragraphs on sustainable development - including a world summit in johannesburg in 2002 - barely conceal, without the obscurity of this smoky concept that has become a reference in catechism, the search for a global approach that would miraculously solve the problems, especially for developing africa, the aids pandemic, economic slavery or misery knowingly maintained by free traders who do not pay the real price for cotton, cocoa, coffee and all raw materials, that is, the price of the lives of the men whose work is exploited.
the lesson of the irish referendum is that a sustainable europe can only be built on respect for national democracies.
finally, we ask for cooperation with the other committees of parliament because, since the charter deals in particular with environmental rights and economic and social rights, the committees responsible for these matters must naturally have a say in the application of the charter in the european union.
we are concerned that staff will be subject to non-renewable statutes.
i would like to ask the commissioner to clarify very clearly the third part of amendment no 25, namely the point concerning the renewable contract.
we want the personnel working in this agency to be subject to renewable contracts.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the coastal regions are protected from the effects of the pollution of the sea.
these degradations have very serious consequences for biodiversity, for the conservation of species, whether it be fauna or flora, serious consequences for the quality of landscapes, very serious consequences for the quality of water.
there is no contradiction between economic development and protection: it requires a genuine desire to develop in a gentle way, while fully respecting the need to protect landscapes, biodiversity, etc.
i believe that our coastal areas represent a wealth of both environmental and economic resources which we must all protect in the spirit of a sustainable development policy.
the problem of tackling major ecological problems is totally incompatible with the private ownership of the major means of production and their use for the sole purpose of making a profit.
we have done this in france with the littoral act, and it has produced good results, even though our green environment minister, mrs voynet, has just allowed an exception to be made with the corsica act.
the transmittable diseases; the drug trafficking; the illegal trafficking in human beings; the transnational crime; the environmental degradation; and the sheer grinding poverty.
therefore, when we talk about the kyoto protocol at genoa, it is very important that we are able to do so in a way which leads to action on climate change and not the collapse of what has been an extremely important effort by the international community to address a major change.
mrs schreyer, however, can confirm that other servants will be recruited on renewable contracts.
large-scale urbanisation and development work can threaten the coastal environment if carried out without sufficient knowledge of coastal dynamics, accelerating coastal erosion.
in addition, pollution from land and sea is increasingly contaminating soil and drinking water resources.
the lack of integrated management of marine and terrestrial resources causes serious tensions between the different sectors of activity, such as fisheries, agriculture and services, which has the effect of undermining the sustainable development of coastal areas.
finally, i would like to join those who regret that the commission proposal does not take account of climate change, which seems to be having an impact on sea level rise and the frequency of storms, contributing significantly to the risk of flooding, coastal erosion and shoreline compression.
the commission also agrees that there is a need for a climate of greater security in south africa as a prerequisite for a peaceful society and for economic development.
the debate today has highlighted a further case: the imprisonment of professor bandashevsky, following his work on the alarming social and environmental consequences of the chernobyl disaster.
the main one should be to provide in the new common fisheries policy, alongside the abolition of pops, for the refocusing of sustainable resource management on a renewed, better-adapted, multiannual, improved tac and quota system, based on refined resource assessments through a substantial increase in scientific research and close involvement of professionals in the process.
- we shall vote in favour of the resolution on the european union strategy for the bonn conference on climate change.
it also includes positive articles, such as reaffirming the need to promote "clean development" by promoting technologies that exclude nuclear energy, the large-scale use of fossil fuels and the use of carbon sinks.
or as one that favours domestic policies and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, rather than the use of 'flexible mechanisms' (whose resolution calls for a 50% cap).
or one which demands, beyond the prudence of the formulas, that the wto submit to environmental priorities decided outside it by an international conference, by acting to prevent countries which would not respect the kyoto protocol from obtaining competitive advantages.
the protocol sanctions the successive setbacks in environmental policy since the rio conference, under pressure from established interests and supporters of economic liberalism.
- no one has been able to prove that the climate change we are concerned about is not the result of a natural climate cycle that has been evolving since the origin of our planet.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's environment policy.
in this sense, i support the idea of assisting developing countries to ensure that they respect the environment.
i do not share the idea of setting up a 'censor' which would sanction states according to criteria which i cannot accept and which would exclude nuclear energy amongst others.
on the other hand, if we are consistent, we should develop without delay, through tax incentives, clean energy sources such as biofuels.
- the two recent mining accidents mentioned in the explanatory memorandum were ecological disasters whose impact extended far beyond the regions where the accidents occurred.
- the report by jonas sjöstedt follows on from a commission communication and deals with a very important issue, too often neglected: the impact of mining activities on the environment.
in view of the flagrant inadequacy of the current rules and standards of monitoring, it is essential to revise the community's environmental policy so as to include mining activities (and in particular the management of their waste) systematically.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, i should like to begin by thanking mr menrad for having taken account of the main points of the proposals put forward by our committee, particularly - and i will not go into detail - the definition of information, consultation, strengthening of the procedure, strengthening of the role of trade unions, lowering of the thresholds for the establishment of these committees and reducing the time limits for the establishment of european works councils.
in a few examples, they say that the current legislation on the right to information and consultation, in the absence of a precise definition, is regularly flouted by companies; they do not have the administrative and judicial remedies necessary to verify compliance with this directive; that the law is applied only too 'sparse' or not at all in many transnational enterprises below the current threshold; whereas it is unthinkable that mergers should be authorised on the basis of criteria relating to competition law alone and that the social, territorial or environmental impact of mergers should not be taken into account; that they are deprived during the merger periods, during which the old concertation structures are no longer operational, while the new structures are not yet established; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
as for our socialist colleagues, there is really something impudent about rejecting the commission's proposals on the postal and energy sectors on the grounds that we must apply what already exists and, on the contrary, rely, as in this case, on supposed slowness to stir things up when it is appropriate.
- it is a sign of the impotence of the european authorities that after eight years of negotiations they are not even able to obtain reliable information on the production of waste, especially industrial waste, and on its treatment.
it is a way of confessing their inability to pursue a policy in this area that would limit the damage and prevent ecological disasters now or in the future.
neither of them intends to run afoul of the private interests of the large industrial groups, nor to impose on them, in order to safeguard the environmental interests of society, draconian measures which could reduce their profits.
the nice summit, however, changed the political environment in which this project is to be developed.
the european commission, however, wants to make use of their energy and commitment, and the white paper analyses the modalities of such cooperation.
we must of course condemn these acts which traumatize entire families and create a climate of terror in the regions most affected.
"alarming levels of corruption", "overcrowded prisons", "enormous trafficking of women and children for prostitution and sexual exploitation", "high unemployment", "poverty", "severe environmental degradation", "unpromising economic prospects", "accelerating hiv spread", oppression of minorities, discrimination against roma - these are some of the terms used to describe one eastern country or another, or, in some cases, all of them.
the european union is asking each candidate to prove his ability to cope with competition by destroying his environment, his social protection system and the means of a genuine policy of modernization and full employment, thus expanding poverty and unemployment.
instead of continuing to give satisfaction to those who have privatized the most and reduced their budgetary expenditure, we need an audit of the real socioeconomic effects, a moratorium on privatization, public development aid, the redefinition of a european project for society for the european union, open to the east and the south, protecting employment, the environment, health and living standards.
in some thirty chapters, from agriculture to taxation, the environment, smes, education and transport, the legislation of the candidate countries, their administrations, their sociologies and even their morals have been scrutinized by a police eye which must remind these former countries of the proletarian morality of the heavy practices not yet forgotten.
instead of enriching and preserving the heritage of plant and animal biodiversity of these eastern countries, not to mention their heritage of social ties not yet broken by ultra-capitalist savagery, the european commission is degrading this historic event to unconditional annexation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community with the european union.
agriculture is a major issue for the satisfaction of needs and fundamental rights, from the right to food sovereignty to health and environmental issues, to regional balances and jobs.
it is not our job to advise independent countries on how to deal with their energy problems, and we are eating our own credibility by dealing with nuclear power time and again in a populist manner and forgetting the facts.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this requires respect for the cultures of others and a balance between competition and social and environmental standards, including the service of general interest.
- we voted on this text as it stands after the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment and public health of the european parliament.
- i abstained on the joint resolution on the bonn conference on climate change.
it is hard to believe that the kyoto protocol "gives new impetus" to kyoto, is a "key instrument" in a "global strategy against global warming" and represents "an extremely positive message for all citizens concerned about globalisation".
the bonn agreement includes positive points, such as the refusal to present nuclear energy as a 'clean' energy.
paragraph 9 'regrets' the place given in bonn to 'carbon sinks' and 'flexible systems'.
but paragraph 6 proposes that the 2003 climate conference focus on these "systems" (the international emissions trading scheme) rather than the essential public policies required to combat climate chaos.
we believe that the statement made by the prime minister in august, mentioning the need to postpone the elections and proposing to amend the electoral code, to which many of you have referred, is not good news and does not contribute to creating a climate conducive to the holding of transparent, free and democratic elections.
we are doing rural, forestry, biodiversity, the environment, we are fighting against soil erosion; we focus on quality, honey, meat, fruit, tourism, we focus on quality of life, and most importantly, we don't focus on productivity.
i am referring to the possible blackmail by the commission - and i am not being too harsh - of making the granting of funds conditional on strict compliance with the environmental obligations it imposes.
i fully agree with the growing need to respect our environment, but i equally disagree with this pseudo-ecological dictate.
this is why this very well-researched and rigorous report is a very encouraging response and a strong signal for the working environment.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the accident at the azf plant in toulouse and the review of the union's environmental protection policy.
furthermore, the french ministry of the environment has provided information to the commission.
however, the exact causes of the accident are still unknown and the three investigations under way by atofina, the ministry of the environment and the attorney-general might take a long time.
azf was fully covered by the seveso ii directive, which aims at the prevention of major industrial accidents and the limitation of their consequences for man and the environment.
according to information received from the french minister for the environment, risk analysis, including possible accident scenarios, had been carried out by the site operator but these did not include a mass explosion of ammonia nitrate.
you also mentioned the debate we had on how to reconcile better urbanisation, environmental risk, industrial risk and employment.
the title of the statement that was asked for today, commissioner, was of course about the accident at the plant, but also about a review of the union's environmental protection policy, because i believe that is what is at stake.
i would not like to see unemployment added to their misery: let us not add the social crisis, the social breakdown to the environmental and human tragedy.
the european union has always been very sensitive to the question of solidarity and i think that the large groups are quite ready to relocate, but they are quite easily considering being relocated to the third world, where there is no environmental protection, no social protection.
all the rescue teams, the medical teams, the edf employees and all those who, with their competence, their good will, have given their energy to the service of the general interest.
let us learn from this disaster to strengthen safety and environmental standards.
once again, the logic of financial profitability, of reducing jobs and investment creates insecurity, causes ecological and human disasters.
member states must not only transpose european union directives, but also respect existing environmental protection directives.
thirdly, it is more than urgent that the commission should present as soon as possible its draft directive on environmental liability, which is the only way to force negligent or even unwilling manufacturers to apply binding standards.
- mr president, the totalfinaelf group, which was already guilty of a crime against the environment with the sinking of the oil tanker erika, is committing a tragic crime again with the explosion of the azf plant in toulouse: 29 dead, more than 2500 injured, a whole population in a state of shock.
the safety of people and the environment is too serious a matter to be left to shareholders and speculators.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0296/2001), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment and management of environmental noise (6660/1/2001 - c5-0245/2001 - 2000/0194 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr de roo).
- mr president, we all agree that noise pollution is disrupting the daily lives of our citizens.
here we fund activities creating environments conducive to a sustainable resettlement of returnees and activities aimed at persuading people to remain in their villages.
i would like to say, however, that at the moment, as you probably know, the public debate on the opening of the mont blanc tunnel is in full swing and that the citizens of europe, france and italy, are calling on us precisely to plead for another cause, namely that of genuine sustainable transport, which is not road transport.
do you really think, since you have presented road transport to us as a sustainable transport, do you really think, on the basis of the studies that have been carried out, that the opening of the mont blanc tunnel will be in line with the requirements, first of all, and the commitments, secondly, that we have made, in favour of kyoto in particular?
i think that with this conference the european union's presence has been elevated to a global level, because in a completely hostile environment it has managed to carry out important negotiations, always maintaining cohesion between the member states, but also maintaining a very good relationship and cooperation with the candidate countries.
in particular, it must be developed with a view to protecting the environment and ensuring its safety, protecting the lives of citizens and natural resources, and detecting at an early stage, or even preventing, natural or man-made disasters.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0298/2001), on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a community energy-efficiency labelling programme for office equipment (6760/1/2001 - c5-0246/2001 - 2000/0033 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs mcnally).
this proposal is part of the commission's action plan to improve energy efficiency in the european union.
office communication equipment accounts for a large share of the electricity consumption of the tertiary sector and we all agree that the use of efficient and environmentally friendly office equipment can contribute to the strategy for sustainable development decided at the gothenburg european council.
the proposed labelling coordination programme, the energy star programme, will bring about significant reductions in electricity consumption and co2 emissions, and will therefore be very cost-effective.
as mrs mcnally has very well said - and i want to stress that i agree with her entirely - energy efficiency comes first.
the first is to use energy well, and that is where we have the greatest margins, as we say in the green paper on the energy supply of the union.
after a long period of negotiation, the agreement with the united states of america on coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment was finally signed in december 2000. we now need this regulation precisely to implement properly what we signed with the united states.
this programme has already been a success in the united states and has resulted in considerable participation by manufacturers, the vast majority of whom have introduced energy-saving devices in their products, and has increased consumer awareness of the origin losses of standby office equipment.
the commission is convinced that the energy star labelling programme will, on the basis of the positive experience gained on the other side of the atlantic, naturally lead to the gradual elimination of inefficient equipment from the community market.
the energy star program is not exactly the right place to collect this incentive to renovate, to modernize, to retire less efficient equipment.
i have explained the commission's position in this speech and i hope that this will enable mrs mcnally to withdraw her amendment and that we can therefore, without having to go through a conciliation procedure, approve this report on the energy star programme today.
- the next item is the report (a5-0234/2001) by mr rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on innovation in the knowledgebased economy (com (2000) 567 - c5-0740/2000 - 2000/2336 (cos)).
but as mrs de palacio said, the commission is preparing a proposal to withdraw energy-inefficient products from the market and i am making it clear that this proposal will be submitted to you as soon as possible, that is to say, during the first half of 2002.
mr president, last night, at the end of the debate and in support of the inquiry, commissioner bolkestein clearly contradicted those who claim that prices have increased since the introduction of the community exhaustion system.
- mr president, the report by our green colleague, mr alex de roo, will undoubtedly make a mark in the environmental legislation of the european union.
until now, noise pollution in our environment has been reduced to almost complete legislative silence.
more than a quarter of them, 100 million, consider themselves victims and the economic impact of this environmental noise trauma is estimated at between 10 and 40 billion euros.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat noise pollution, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it.
noise pollution reaches us in a diffuse, sporadic and intangible way; in fact, we often incorporate them into our everyday environment.
the noise is not as black as oil, nor as harsh as chemical waste; but he condenses their harmfulness.
- we voted in favour of all the amendments which seek to limit noise pollution caused by road, rail and air transport or to impose binding and uniform noise ceilings for the whole of the european union.
- we know how much noise pollution can affect the daily life and health of our citizens.
the impact of aircraft noise differs from one airport to another and action to reduce noise pollution would be more relevant if undertaken at national, regional and local levels.
firstly, i think that this is indeed a balanced position which takes into account the well-being and health of citizens who are indeed increasingly exposed to noise pollution.
secondly, these common indicators and assessment methods will enable the collection of information on noise exposure in the form of 'noise maps' without, at any rate for the time being, setting limit values for noise pollution throughout the european union.
unemployment is rising, recession is looming, the conditions for sustainable growth are not met, but so far the council, the commission and the central bank have been using the language of wood and the coué method.
the spending must give priority to the conditions of sustainable development, people and activity, security and solidarity.
that is why, if we want to make our audiovisual sector sustainable, we must now extend the scope of the directive.
the minds are ripe for such a development and the withdrawal of the actions against south africa and brazil has created a very obvious psychological climate.
in the same vein, a more general reflection on the environment is needed.
we protest against the measures that restrict individual freedoms, which this war climate gives rise to.
the delays and the limited and ineffective measures in this area only prove that it is preferable to accept the money of terrorism, drugs and organized crime rather than to ensure full transparency, which risks exposing the multiple trafficking and ignominy of the capitalist system itself and the considerable waste it costs society.
we simply consider that this is a first step in the right direction and that it is now necessary to start, without delay and without taboo, a general revision of our legislation so that the intention expressed by the presidency of the council to pursue a policy against terrorism that is both 'global' and 'sustainable' does not remain incantatory, but is translated into fact.
it is in this spirit that i am presenting today, on behalf of the group, this resolution which calls on the member states to develop genuine strategies for equal access for all to fundamental rights such as education, housing, health care, culture and sustainable employment.
the analysis of the proposals of the associations and the work of the european fourth world committee intergroup clearly shows that the fight against poverty and exclusion must become a key element of sustainable development.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
substantial funds are reserved for social and environmental projects in medium income octs.
it is in the urgent interest of the octs that a favourable business climate is re-established as soon as possible.
i remind you that the deadline for applications is set for this evening at 6 p.m. i have received, in accordance with rule 62 (5), the objections of 95 members to the application of the procedure for delegating decision-making to a committee to mr corbey's report on packaging and packaging waste, which is currently scheduled for voting time at noon on tuesday.
the german authorities, like the vienna atomic energy agency, acknowledge that even the thickest of the reactors would not survive a crash.
- mr president, the promotion of transparency and public participation in the preparation of certain environmental plans and programmes is a laudable objective, which we fully support.
the report does, however, raise a number of substantive problems, namely: first, the possible overlap of texts providing for public participation, in particular the directives on environmental impact studies, pollution prevention and reduction.
in addition, the addition of environmental policies to plans and programmes seems premature at this stage, pending the ratification of the aarhus convention.
for future generations, the gigantic waste and the blatant stupidity of your economy will appear as the mark of the fact that, as far as the control of its own collective life is concerned, humanity had not yet emerged from barbarism.
- "public participation" in "environmental plans": we are of course in favour of this.
what control can he even exercise to prevent a disaster, which unfortunately is not only ecological, such as the explosion at the azf factory in toulouse?
with regard to europol, and the same applies to eurojust, all our energy must of course be mobilised in the fight against terrorism in all its forms, as our president, charles pasqua, has repeatedly done and stressed, but the indispensable strengthening of solidarity and police and judicial cooperation between our nations cannot be used as a pretext for a creeping communitization of policies and actions which are fully within the purview of national sovereignty.
trade agreements have also had, in recent years, an increasing impact on other international rules in areas such as public health, the environment, social rights.
for example, wto agreements or decisions have called into question the precautionary principle, environmental protection or access to medicines.
we believe that the european union should defend a true hierarchy of standards at international level, that is to say, recognize that business law, commercial law, cannot supplant the principles of environmental protection, public health and respect for the social rights of workers.
they do not guarantee food autonomy or the right to protect biodiversity for the countries of the south, and they block the taking into account of the specific nature of rural agriculture in europe, with its qualitative, social and environmental aspects.
the commission must press for this to change, for a thorough revision of the trips agreement, so that it is fully compatible with the rio convention on biodiversity and the cartagena protocol on biosafety, as the african group in the wto is calling for.
the promotion of short sea shipping is also widely welcomed, as it is essential to preserve the environment and to reduce significantly congestion on our roads.
universal responsibility is the best foundation both for our personal happiness and for world peace, the equitable use of our natural resources, and, through a concern for future generations, the proper care for the environment.
however, not the autonomy on paper imposed on us 50 years ago in the 17-point agreement, but a true self-governing, genuinely autonomous tibet, with tibetans fully responsible for their own domestic affairs, including the education of their children, religious matters, cultural affairs, the care of their delicate and precious environment, and the local economy.
this solution would greatly enhance the international image of china and contribute to her stability and unity –- the two topmost priorities of beijing –- while at the same time the tibetans would be ensured of the basic rights and freedoms to preserve their own civilisation and to protect the delicate environment of the tibetan plateau.
although the immediate reactions from the chinese side will be most probably negative, nevertheless, i strongly believe that expressions of international concern and support are essential for creating an environment conducive for the peaceful resolution of the tibetan problem.
when one looks at the situation inside tibet it seems almost hopeless in the face of increasing repression, continuing environmental destruction, and the ongoing systematic undermining of the culture and identity of tibet.
i have no doubt that your continued expressions of concern and support for tibet will in the long run impact positively and help create the conducive political environment for a constructive dialogue on the issue of tibet.
we conclude from commissioner lamy's speech yesterday that although he is trying to present a diverse range of objectives for future negotiations (liberalisation, regulation, integration of developing countries, taking sustainable development into account), liberalisation is still the number one objective.
i also regret that the joint resolution which this parliament has just voted is inconsistent in remaining silent on community preference, whereas it rightly stresses the right of wto members to apply agricultural policies adapted to their needs and conditions and in particular, for the countries of the european union, to defend a european agricultural model based on family farming, food safety and quality, environmental protection and territorial balance.
the committee on agriculture has voted in favour of the principle of a flat-rate basic aid, a rural premium and a supplementary flexibility premium based on criteria of product quality, the environment or economic organization.
in addition to the human and social tragedy it represents, it is also an ecological tragedy because sheep and goat farming is often the last line of defense against the barren land in areas where agriculture is difficult.
that is why it has been essential for your committee on agriculture to substantially improve the proposal for a regulation presented by the commission in order to simplify, make it more predictable and increase aid to a sector which is suffering badly, which has such a significant economic, social and ecological impact and which offers cattle farmers, if it is sufficiently strengthened, the possibility of conversion.
the issues raised in this context in the discussions concern a whole range of aspects and possibilities, ranging from extensification and environmental concerns to the development of quality products, the improvement of marketing structures and the creation of producer groups.
in motion no 8, it is proposed that this issue be included in the report on the environmental impact of sheep and goat farming due to be published on 31 december 2005. i understand that and i share your motives, but i think that this problem should be solved in the short term and that we cannot wait until 31 december 2005. the first step towards better tracing of origin requires the creation of a reliable labelling and registration system.
from an environmental point of view, the reopening of the mont blanc tunnel is contrary to the commitments of the european union and its member states to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
what good is it to vote for sustainable transport and the shift from road to rail if, at the first opportunity to show such determination to reverse the trend towards all-roads, this option is rejected?
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules.
i am in favour of a framework directive on services of general interest provided that it affirms the social benefits of services of general interest in terms of employment, security and sustainable development.
education, health, public transport, the post office, telecommunications, water and energy supply and waste disposal must remain public services which must not generate profit... (the president withdrew the floor)
- mr president, it is to point out two errors in the french version that we must correct.
as in other sectors (telecommunications, energy, postal services, etc.
we are told that there is an improvement, but, as is too often the case, there has been no prior study of the effects of this liberalization, particularly on such important issues as security, the environment and employment.
there has been no consultation of the parties concerned, especially the trade union organisations (we can still call them 'lobbies' if you like), who are aware of the needs in terms of safety for people and the environment and who have irreplaceable know-how.
in the present conditions of commercial fleets, this measure opens the door to insecurity, to the deterioration of working conditions, employment and environmental safety.
they should be seen, in my view, as full partners in the pursuit of sustainable development.
i believe that the european union should work towards harmonizing the working and employment conditions of workers in this sector, which is the only real guarantee of economic and social efficiency while respecting the environment.
and if we were to exacerbate competition, it would be your whole sustainable mobility policy that would fall apart.
we now have the opportunity to do a service to european employment and sustainable development.
in this respect, as the honourable members know, ports were first incorporated into the transeuropean networks a few months ago, precisely to integrate them fully into the internal transport chain of the union, thus playing a crucial role in making our transport system sustainable and competitive.
although the treaty does not in principle allow restrictions on market access, ports have their own specificities, such as the possible space constraints and the fundamental importance of safety and environmental issues.
of course, local specificities must be taken into account, particularly in matters relating to safety, the environment and social aspects.
other amendments, while not introducing changes, provide useful clarifications, particularly as regards the continued application of the existing safety, environmental and social standards.
this is of course only the beginning of the legislative process; during this long process the commission will be open to finding constructive solutions with the european parliament which will allow the widest possible support to be given to this proposal which seeks to ensure that a mature industry, an industry which has much to gain from the reorientation of the european transport industry, can meet the challenges we face and make a crucial contribution to ensuring that we have a sustainable transport system which serves economic development, job creation, respect for the environment and the quality of life of our citizens.
i think, and i must say with great satisfaction, that if we look at the past, the dynamics that have been there, poland has entered this race, this path towards enlargement, towards accession, with extraordinary energy and capacity.
mr president, allow me to congratulate our rapporteur, mr chichester, on his excellent work of analysis and proposal, and to say that i fully agree with his realistic and pragmatic approach, which maintains a balance between the various sources of energy, which is essential in the establishment of a european energy supply strategy.
this strategy is based on three complementary objectives, which i support: reducing the european union's energy consumption by increasing the efficiency of certain sectors, particularly the building and automotive sectors; strengthening cooperation and investment with the supplier countries; diversifying energy resources with an objective which i consider essential; reducing dependence on oil.
i am also pleased that this report sets out the means of achieving these objectives, in particular through the liberalisation of the energy sector, and i would like to stress the need not to give in to demagogic talk, particularly with regard to renewable energy and nuclear energy.
we must remain realistic and understand that without the contribution of nuclear energy, the european union will not be able to achieve the objectives it has set itself on the reduction of greenhouse gases.
instead of encouraging debate, they exclude several possible energy choices from the outset and i think they must be rejected for the sake of the coherence of this report.
mr president, the successive oil shocks and the political and social fragility of the main oil-producing countries underline the importance of the notion of energy independence for our economies.
but if we do not have the political will to achieve this independence, we are on the road to energy dependence.
if we let things go on as they are, within 25 years the external energy dependence of the countries of the european union will reach 70%, instead of 50% today.
we must, on the one hand, promote energy saving everywhere.
in this context, as the green paper and our rapporteur suggest, the question of the development of nuclear energy must be approached in a realistic and not ideological way.
this implies recognition of the fact that the waste is unimpeachable in terms of greenhouse gases, but also that intensive research efforts are absolutely essential to achieve complete safety of the final waste, even if the latter represents only small volumes.
the same research effort must be pursued in the field of biofuels, which have the merit of representing for us an important, non-polluting indigenous source of energy and offering promising outlets for our agricultural production.
first of all, i too want to stress the importance of energy for europe, at a time when dependence on it is forecast to reach 70% by 2030, with obviously very little room for manoeuvre.
secondly, i would like to stress that i support mr chichester's approach in general, which proposes both a diversification of energy sources and the development of all the current offers, without exclusive.
the water requirements vary according to agricultural production, soil quality and climate.
on the contrary, it is by preserving the multifunctional nature of our agriculture, which contributes to land use planning and environmental management, that we will achieve better water quality.
i would mention the swedish and belgian presidencies, the european commission and commissioner busquin, mr westendorp and the secretariat of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, the itre committee, the group administrators, my assistant, gaëlle le bouler, the fellow non-permanent rapporteurs of the itre committee, the opinion rapporteurs and the non-permanent rapporteurs of the committees whose opinions have been requested, and the group coordinators.
secondly, land and sea transport in the interests of intermodality, fluidity, safety, efficiency and coherence with a strong focus on quality and a better environment.
as regards the euratom aspect, the majority of the itre committee agreed on the principles and the architecture of the commission's text, with particular regard to the security of our energy supplies, risk reduction and the treatment of nuclear waste.
we need to do that if we're going to have a chance of ensuring our energy security in half a century.
thirdly, we want a better balance between renewable energy and nuclear research.
i will say, as my colleague eryl macnally has said, that we are not in favour of further enlargement of the nuclear budget or of the iter project, which will not be done for a very long time, and we want the research appropriations for renewable energy and nuclear energy to be more balanced.
the general approach to liberalization is opposed to improving service for users, improving working conditions, respect for the environment, road safety and a land-use planning policy that is not imposed by market constraints.
but also, and above all, because the indiscriminate liberalization of all port services is a dangerous threat to safety, the environment and employment.
the environment, because liberalisation does not allow it to be taken into account in a satisfactory way.
on these two points, the report and the directive are in contradiction with the policy of strengthening 'maritime safety' and reducing environmental risks launched by the union in the wake of the erika disaster.
but it is simply incomprehensible to me that the fishermen, for example, who provide a service of general interest recognized internationally, in particular by providing essential aid both for prevention in environmental protection and for the implementation of the best possible safety, should now be subject to competition.
the economic logic in favour of the user-users must in no way take precedence over safety in the broad sense, safety of persons, the environment or equipment.
the logic, always the same, is that the liberalization of telecommunications, transport, energy and the postal services is a direct consequence of these processes.
but these results are not satisfactory and because we demand the maintenance of public service obligations concerning safety, regularity, continuity, quality and price, the harmonization of the social rights of port workers with the most favourable regime and respect for the environment, we have rejected the jarzembowski report.
the permanence of the service, the professional qualifications of the staff, the mastery of local specificities, the essential role played by the management in port and maritime security make this activity an essential and determining element of environmental protection.
- this report is in line with the policy of the european institutions, in that it emphasizes aid to employers under the pretext of research and aims to link research and private interests ever more closely, even if it sometimes disguises it as a trendy, whether ecological or regionalist, dress.
women's participation is the key to a sustainable reconstruction of afghanistan.
- in referring to europe's energy dependence, the report conceals the fact that the main dependence is less on other countries than on the big oil trusts which often also control other energy sources.
it is not the unequal distribution of energy resources on the planet, a geological fact, that threatens the rational use of these resources in a way that respects the natural environment, but the fact that their management is carried out by large private groups, exclusively concerned with their profit rate, when they themselves do not suffer from the erratic fluctuations of the market, or even from stock market speculation.
- i said in the plenary debate on tuesday evening that i supported the 'chichester package' on energy security, despite the demands for liberalisation of the energy sector which i could not have supported if they had been put forward in isolation but which, in this case, were part of a comprehensive, diverse and courageous 'package' which is advancing european thinking in this field.
i still cannot understand how anyone can defend liberalisation which aims to bring down prices and which is expressed in the promotion of 'cheap' energy sources, and then complain about dependence on outside sources which increases as consumption increases (or does not decrease) because prices are very (or too) low!
- the chichester report aims to present a 'european strategy' on the security of energy supply.
can we restructure the energy sector without a real, sustained and concerted public policy?
is energy a "common good" or just a commodity?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the renewal of the nuclear fleet, and that appropriate measures be taken to ensure the disposal of radioactive waste and the safety of the plants.
paragraph 18 wants to 'promote further market opening in the eu' and paragraph 42 considers that 'it is essential to complete the liberalisation of energy markets'.
only a public service policy can meet social and environmental requirements and ensure 'sustainable development' in this sector of the economy.
- the question of the energy supply of the member states is a fundamental element of their security which naturally falls primarily within the sphere of national sovereignty.
however, given the important interactions of energy choices, it may be worthwhile, as the green paper does, to take a forward-looking approach and to study this issue at european level.
this examination must, of course, be approached without any ideological prejudice which would demonize or romanticize any particular energy source.
this is the approach adopted in the chichester report, which, like the green paper, stresses the need for the member states to maintain a balanced mix of energy sources, thus giving full play to nuclear electricity.
it is also the only way for the european union to meet its international commitments to limit co2 emissions into the atmosphere.
research and development in nuclear energy must therefore continue in order to make the most of the scientific and industrial advances we have in this field, to ensure that our countries have maximum autonomy in energy resources, to preserve the environment and to achieve satisfactory disposal of final waste.
the rapporteur, drawing on this system, envisages the 'sustainable management of water resources' in terms of pricing and taxation.
this means, once again, that those who can afford it, individuals and especially industrial groups, will be able to continue to waste and even pollute, while others, the poorer, will continue to be deprived of it.
the current profit-driven economic system is fundamentally incapable of ensuring 'sustainable management of water resources' and is thus a threat to the future of humanity in this and many other fields.
firstly, i think that this is a balanced approach which improves the protection of the environment and the health of citizens on the one hand, and maintains the competitiveness of the chemical industry on the other, while at the same time being in line with the sustainable development strategy adopted in gothenburg.
the report's approach also seems to me to be balanced in that, in addition to purely environmental considerations, it takes into account certain socioeconomic aspects of future legislation (in particular the fact that workers in the chemical industry are more exposed, or the specific constraints on small and medium-sized enterprises).
the substances produced in smaller quantities are often the most harmful to health or the environment.
- the few sentences in the report on 'health, education and the fight against extreme poverty', 'the fight against drugs' or 'environmental protection', some of the objectives which the european union claims to defend in this region of the world, are only a facade of much less admirable intentions.
the insolvency directive has proved to be an invaluable instrument for protecting employees in cases of economic downturns and it will be a key legislative instrument to respond to the present climate of closures and redundancies.
the tragedies in the tunnels demonstrate the practical and ideological dead ends of the entire highway, which clogs some transportation routes, suffocating our entire environment.
but for decades, it has been allowed to develop a climate of violence against democrats.
the military government, by failing to take any preventive action, has allowed a climate of ethnic conflict to develop, and one of these conflicts, between the tivs and the jukuns in the east of the country, has just resulted in 200 civilian deaths, who were massacred by the military.
as far as nigeria is concerned, it is through a fight against the application of islamic sharia law - for example, a woman was allowed to be stoned in front of tv cameras, no country reacted, it was a few weeks ago - and in the same way, there is also a climate of islamophobia that is developing, there are mosques that are being burned, and there too it is happening in general indifference.
these natural disasters are a further reminder that climate change and unsustainable development are and will continue to exacerbate already considerable devastating effects.
this is no longer the case and we must reaffirm the need to conclude a cooperation agreement with cuba on environmentally sustainable development as soon as possible and to review the european union's position.
this is not just a health catastrophe, but an ecological and economic one.
- we are obviously in favour of improving the quality of petrol and diesel fuels in order to protect the environment.
this fuel standard issue should be an opportunity to introduce specifications favourable to biofuels much more vigorously; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the fuels produced by our agricultural production are unimpeachable in terms of the greenhouse effect, make an important contribution to europe's energy independence and provide a very important outlet for some of our agricultural products.
it will take place in plenary, just before the south korean president's speech, which is at about 11.50 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0416/2001), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the european food authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety (1088/1/2001 - c5-0414/2001 - 2000/0286 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr whitehead).
i would simply like to mention the areas in which the union, with the decisive contribution of the commission, achieved its greatest successes in 2001: preparation for the changeover to the euro; progress in the enlargement negotiations; relations with the balkans; the dialogue with russia; the opening of a new round of trade negotiations in doha; the adoption of a sustainable development strategy, which goes far beyond the mere adoption of a series of specific measures and will gradually lead us to a review of all our internal policies; finally, the reinvigoration, particularly visible since 11 september, of the work to create a common european area of justice and security.
from the outset, this commission has indicated, as one of the four main lines of its action, the ambition to reorient the union's action, which up to that point had been essentially economic, in a broader sense, to economic, social and environmental action.
in two key stages, both in the first part of this commission's mandate - in lisbon in march 2000 and in gothenburg in june 2001 - the member states committed themselves to sustainable development, combining competitiveness, social justice and respect for the environment.
the same is true of the efforts to prepare for and make a success of the johannesburg meeting on sustainable development.
but thanks to the european union, and i think we can thank pascal lamy for his firmness, we have a broad agenda to start with: the environment, investment and competition will be negotiated on the basis of an explicit consensus.
- present on 30 000 farms in the european union, the cultivation of grass and legume seeds, the main species covered by this common market organization, is of great importance for employment, the income of producers, the socioeconomic balance of many regions, biodiversity and security of supply.
however, europe has won a victory over the environment and the social.
on the environment, the united states, which is not a party to kyoto, is not bound; the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the social dimension.
however, the work programme falls short of the ambitions we set ourselves on several major issues, such as the environment, the singapore agenda or social standards.
the priority for european agriculture today must no longer be export competitiveness at any cost, but the satisfaction of social demand in terms of food security, rural development and sustainability.
the community added value should be expressed upstream in the form of a reduction in health risks arising largely from our environment in the broad sense: transport, pollution, chemicals, food, etc., but also from our behaviour and social, economic and environmental inequalities.
- the common position (a5-0440/2001) by mr watts, on behalf of parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 95/21/ec on the application to ships calling at community ports or in waters under the jurisdiction of member states of international standards for ship safety, pollution prevention and shipboard living and working conditions (port state control) (pe-scon 3657/2001 - c5-0525/2001 - 2000/0065 (cod)) - the report (a5-0441/2001) by mr ortuondo larrea, on behalf of parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 94/57/ec laying down common rules and standards for ship inspection and survey organisations and for the relevant activities of maritime administrations (pe-cons 3656/2001 - c5-0526/2001 - 2000/0066 (cod)); - recommendation for second reading (a5-0344/2001) on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the accelerated introduction of double hull requirements or equivalent design standards for single hull oil tankers and repealing council regulation (ec) no 2978/94 (10221/1/2001 - c5-0389/2001 - 2000/0067 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr hatzidakis)
- mr president, a coincidence of timing means that today we are sadly commemorating the second anniversary of the sinking of the oil tanker erika.
in europe, the member states are very unequal in the risks of marine pollution, and it would therefore be perfectly legitimate for the countries which are in the forefront in this respect to take the necessary initiatives themselves.
intermittent pollution and garbage ships, such as the one that was recently said to have sunk off brest, are still too much of a news story, and the union's credibility is at stake to put an end to this situation.
and in the end, if we can be satisfied today with a good result in terms of european legislation, we still do not know what will happen, and in what time, with the implementation of all these measures, which are much awaited by the victims of these pollution and accidents.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
as regards the proposal for a regulation on the community fund for compensation for damage caused by accidental pollution, it is true that we are once again waiting for things to move in the international maritime organization.
the european union has shown this time that we are serious about combating marine pollution.
a tribute to all those europeans who, over the years, have seen the systematic repetition of catastrophes with very serious pollution without really taking the appropriate measures, with sufficient rigor and sufficient demands, and, in the end, also to those of us who are true lovers of the sea and the environment and who are thinking not only of today but of future generations.
finally, and this is where i should have started, i bring greetings from angola to the historic city of strasbourg, home of the european parliament, a city i met when i was young, attracted not only by its cultural climate but, above all, by the memory of the many alsatian missionaries who, alongside portuguese missionaries, evangelized our land.
in this climate, talk of tolerance is seen either as a betrayal of these most voted parties - and ironically belligerent - or as a backward reaction if it comes from an independent person.
in this climate, to speak of change would mean alternating power with the rival; but for us, as church and civil society, the shift for now would be to accept tolerance as a matter of survival, which therefore imposes itself from the grassroots to the top, from political parties to government, from civil society and the churches themselves to the national project.
we are in a crucial area for the preservation of our environment, of our biodiversity.
nevertheless, there is more to it than that: partnership with countries of origin and transit, a policy of sustainable return for illegal immigrants and the fight against undeclared work are all essential in this regard.
– the european commission is concerned by the political climate in togo.
the european union has several times conveyed its concern about the political climate to the government of togo.
in view of this climate of cooperation, i would only like to make a request - indeed, to reiterate an invitation i have already addressed to the council - to my friend guy, that we may work together in these months to reform the institutions with permanent treaties.