the european committee for standardisation, for example, recently did work on the packaging of waste directive, which the press has described as "fundamentally flawed, undermines democratic accountability and fails to meet the demands of the directive or, for that matter, environmental protection".
it can only devalue our work in the european parliament if claims can be made, for example, that the end-of-vehicle-life directive will cost us £400m a year in terms of the cost to the producers and the consumers but will only deliver £100m a year of benefit to the environment.
in response to the call for a coordinated policy to simplify the regulatory environment launched at the lisbon european council, the commission is currently undertaking a thorough review of its position on regulation in general in the broadest sense of the word.
i am convinced that the current political consensus in favour of a better regulatory environment within the european union will lead to real and lasting improvements.
in an increasingly flexible or precarious working environment people will be thrown back on their inner resources at many times in their lives and social cohesion is partly dependent on such personal resilience.
it is also very important that all of us secure the right climate for enterprise, with less red tape and less bureaucracy, to encourage smes and risk-takers to actually consider taking out risk capital in the first place.
despite this long delay, there was further incompetence, dare i say, within the secretariat because the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy under mrs flesch as the rapporteur had produced some very useful amendments to the report which only came to the committee on employment after we had voted on the report.
this initiative aims to provide financial assistance for innovative and job-creating small and medium-sized enterprises as a step towards the development of a business climate conducive to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship.
(the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, parliament's committee on the environment is increasingly concerned that we are adopting european environmental legislation and then neglecting to implement it properly.
opinion polls show that the majority of people support the idea that environmental issues are important and should be dealt with at european level.
in fact, in all too many cases, environmental laws are ignored, targets are not met, reports are not sent in to the commission on time and those countries which break the law go unpunished.
the committee on the environment has put together three reports, we call them ‘insight reports’, basing ourselves on the model of the us congress.
it is highly likely that these shortcomings are repeated throughout the canon of eu environmental law.
we hope firstly that in the environmental action programme, which the world is eagerly awaiting, the commission will key in adequate resources for following up what has happened to legislation.
there needs to be a much more honest debate secondly – nationally and at the european level – about the real possibility of achieving the environmental objectives set out in draft legislation.
a good example of the failure to do this is the urban waste water directive which the government of brussels cannot afford to comply with.
we suspect that the same thing will happen with the national emissions ceiling directive.
my colleagues and i were desperately disappointed that the council felt it could not agree to our proposal to transform the environmental inspections recommendation into a directive.
last week the greek government, which can ill afford to do so, paid the second instalment of a fine, now totalling over eur 2 million for failure to comply with a judgment of the court of justice over the dumping of waste in crete.
this was thirteen years after the commission received the first complaint about the dumping of that waste and no less than nineteen years after the directive concerned came into force.
apparently the environment council was somewhat surprised and even disapproving that we had intruded into their territory and that our intention was to take the environmental inspections recommendation very seriously.
the public tends to complain to us, not to the environment council.
in the interests of the people of europe and their environment, we will pursue this issue and we will not let go.
mr president, my assistant, vikki phillips, has just handed me a note which says that denmark spends 15 times more than greece in carrying out environmental inspections and making appropriate assessments.
i am very pleased to support most of what the chairman of the committee on the environment has said, although i have some trepidation in doing so being conscious that the next ecj fine may well be against the uk for its failure to comply with the bathing water directive, despite the fact that a great deal of money has been spent and effort made in recent years to reach such compliance.
i want to make it clear, though, that i do not believe that we should be using the failure of some member states to achieve compliance with environmental legislation to justify weakening our ambitions or claiming that too much legislation is impractical.
let us name and shame at every opportunity and bring the public alongside us in ensuring that this environmental legislation is enforced and that member states recognise their responsibilities.
sadly our own environment agency does not appear to be up to the job yet.
i tabled a question to the commission in october on the environmental hazards posed by du, depleted uranium 238, shells in the balkans and suggested that some of the emergency aid package to serbia should be dedicated to investigating and, if proven, making good the toxic and radioactive damage possibly posed to the people of kosovo.
the eu's contribution to conflict prevention is greatest where we can use or adapt our different instruments, especially trade and cooperation agreements, development assistance and social and environmental instruments, to tackle causes of conflict.
i challenge the commission and the council to look seriously at zonal management within a framework of community-wide objectives, of course, but so that interested parties can participate more fully and so that the new cfp, once agreed, can actually achieve its purpose, namely the long-term sustainability of european fisheries.
european companies must also make certain that they do not exploit the cheap labour and do not continually perpetuate the working environment in factories, where the women suffer and work very long hours for very little money.
as mrs wallström has said: the real and immediate danger in the balkans comes from general environmental degradation following years of neglect, corruption and war.
there are a lot of other issues to do with the balkan war which we should be investigating, like unexploded cluster bombs and the environmental damage which the commission has outlined, but let us stick to the facts.
if we can find a solution, we can help the people of the dprk to help themselves with food aid and assistance in restarting and rebuilding agriculture, mining and non-nuclear energy projects.
i am also opposed to these weapons because of their unacceptable effects on man and the environment in general.
i would particularly like to take note of my deep concern at the environmental damage which is very likely to be caused by the firing of the dundrennan firing range in the solway firth.
this is really something that is quite unnecessary i would have thought in the post cold-war environment.
in the speeches, several members also spoke about the environment.
i believe that environmental issues should not be seen as a brake on economic development, but rather as a driving force.
all the big environmental problems we see today, we're solving with new technology.
when our citizens see what is happening, for example on climate, and we cannot come together to some kind of common response, this will naturally affect the confidence in our institutions.
see the environment as a driver, not a brake and a dream of times gone by.
see the environment as a visionary contribution to a better and more modern europe.
we should be able to take this approach together with the meritorious work of commissioner wallström with her environmental action programme on chemicals and their regulation.
i take note of what you have said on the environment and i share your views to a large extent.
i am sure that the dg on transport and energy has a copy of the uk's road safety strategy that was published in march 2000. it makes it very clear that the new government in the united kingdom is committed to a solution within a european context.
congestion, pollution, gridlock, global warming, floods, freak weather.
we must all accept the fact, for example, that the fastest growing source of global warming gases is the transport sector.
i can refer to a letter from the organisation that represents the motoring clubs across europe, including, for example, the aa and rac, who are broadly sympathetic and supportive of our work, because they know that unless europe takes a lead on this issue, unless we begin pulling together the best of the ideas from across the european union, then the cities, towns and rural areas, will continue to suffer from unacceptable levels of congestion and pollution.
like the rapporteur and other colleagues i recognise that forestry is a very important industry, important for the economy and important for the environment.
in itself it has made quite a contribution towards the consumption of paper and this is to be welcomed, even if our colleagues on the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy had to make it a little bit longer than he would wish.
this is a valuable, sustainable industry, very important to the economy of europe and to our environment, and this is a very timely report.
we could continue the dialogue, mrs darras, but what i want to observe is that when we work from the standard of living, from the gdp per capita, we are not far from the truth because we observe that with the lowest standards of living we have the highest unemployment rate, we have the most degraded environmental conditions, we have the lowest internet access rate.
– mr president, this report concerns the proposed adoption by the european union of the united states’ energy star programme as it applies to office and communication technology equipment.
our irresponsible and profligate use of energy, with its consequential emissions of c02 and other environmental hazards must stop.
ironically enough, it is in the united states, where the energy star scheme originated, that we have recently seen the absurd spectacle of power cuts in california, largely because of the incredible increase in the use of computers and other office equipment with the accompanying need for air-conditioning within a framework of quite bizarre and unwise deregulation.
things would have been even worse without the energy star programme.
members may in fact have seen the energy star logo on computers bought in the eu, although this means nothing yet since the technology has to be specially activated, which is done only in the united states.
it is a voluntary scheme and it is hoped that between now and 2015 savings of 10 terawatt hours and 5 million tonnes of c02 emissions will be achieved in the eu through this scheme.
i now enter the world of science fiction and explain that to be energy-efficient, computers must go to sleep, but they must wake up instantly when they are required to do so.
until now, the european union has produced its own energy efficient standards, often mandatory and the european parliament has taken seriously its responsibility as a co-legislator to see that such standards are sufficiently stringent.
that is why there would be very serious reservations from parliament about adopting this us energy star scheme if that were to be our only measure and especially if there were no provisions in the agreement for regular review of the results, with the objective, of course, of always being at the leading edge of the relevant technologies.
i am quite sure that the council will see the wisdom of these amendments and of the regular and earlier monitoring of the energy star scheme as one, but only one, component of our energy efficient action plan.
as rapporteur, i would like to thank the commission for their cooperation and help and of course thank my colleagues, especially mrs müller, who drafted a very useful opinion from the environment committee.
we all hope that the energy star scheme is a success and we look forward to watching computers throughout europe going to sleep at the correct time.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
after years of sustainable fisheries in these waters people fear that the adverse effect of these protective measures will be a decimation of their own stocks.
we have to get the balance right between sustainability and a successful industry on the other hand.
i am glad that mr prodi emphasised the overriding importance of sustainable development, which has implications well beyond the natural environment.
we welcome the acceleration of the energy market, though there is a risk of that aim clashing with the aim of sustainable development.
i hope you will pursue rigorously a policy of encouraging renewable energy sources and rational use of energy.
as far as trade is concerned, we agree that a new wto round is desirable, again subject to the constraints of sustainable development.
i agree with what i was told about sustainable development.
in fact, many times, with this expression, we simply want to save our souls, and instead sustainable development means making decisions that are terribly complicated and difficult, decisions that affect industry, our daily way of life, homes, energy use.
the problem of the major political decisions - agriculture, the environment, the structural funds - is coming to a head at this very moment, and it will be a time of terrible difficulty, a time when political wisdom will have to emerge most strongly because this will be the final blow to the great process under way.
this directive will be a cornerstone in the establishment of a harmonised legal framework on copyright, in a digital environment in particular.
finally, i will again reaffirm the commission's intention to present before the end of the year, a proposal for a directive on environmental liability which will include gmos.
advances in engine technology for cars and trucks coupled with a 6% rise in motorcycle mileage in the 1990s have meant that the proportion of pollution from bikes is increasing.
the same model could be reversed to help improve american knowledge of language learning methods and working in a multicultural environment.
i particularly welcome the recognition of the direct and indirect effects and potential risks of the release of gmos into the environment.
in this area, the needs of our environment and biodiversity should take precedence over everything else.
the targets set at last year's lisbon summit were a key step towards establishing the conditions for full employment, with heads of state and government setting the eu as the world's most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion.
the stockholm council next march will continue to develop the european agenda for the creation of a flexible economy, the liberalisation of gas and electricity markets, the liberalisation of the postal sector, the reform of the financial services sector, proposals on telecommunications and e-commerce, measures to create a favourable environment for smes, and employment targets for the benefit of all citizens of the european union.
i would like to point out that the new corporate operational plan, covering the period 2001-2003, redefines our priorities in the sense of recommendations 3 and 5. we have included among the five priorities adopted by our board of directors, i quote, 'the promotion of environmental protection and sustainable development, particularly in the implementation of the kyoto protocol'.
this trend was already present, as last year the amount of funding for projects directly contributing to the improvement of the environment reached eur 6.4 billion for eu funding, an increase of 39% compared to the previous year, and eur 740 million for funding in the candidate countries.
in addition, we have reorganised our project management to ensure systematic environmental impact assessment of projects for which our funding is sought.
however, as mrs peijs has very aptly pointed out, this emphasis on the environment must not make us forget other priorities.
from the commission's point of view, it is true that we must do our utmost to make the instruments at our disposal for facilitating investment effective, but it is equally true that there are actions, such as in the field of the environment or the candidate countries, which, given the interest rate levels with which we are currently working, could be solved more efficiently by means of cofinancing schemes, for example through some of the current programmes.
the council is pleased to inform the honourable members that environmental protection requirements under article 6 of the ec treaty are to be integrated into the formulation and implementation of community policies and activities, in particular with a view to promoting sustainable development.
the strategies for integrating environmental aspects into the council's activities will be defined by the european council in gothenburg in june this year.
in december 1999, the helsinki council set the timetable for the gothenburg european council and invited the council to complete the integration of environmental aspects into the council's overall activities by presenting overall strategies, accompanied if possible by a timetable of the measures to be taken and a number of indicators for the sectors concerned.
the council, it should be stressed, shares the view of the honourable members and is ready to work with all the political and economic actors in this field to ensure the success of a comprehensive approach to environmental issues in the various policy areas concerned.
as regards the integration of environmental aspects and sustainable development into all sectoral policies, much can be said about how and to what extent the council applies the provisions of article 6 of the treaty.
firstly, energy policy, which the council considers to be one of its highest priorities.
in this regard, the council reminds the honourable members of the council conclusions of december 1999, which already contain a detailed preliminary set of indicators covering the energy sector in general, including environmental impact, the energy market and energy efficiency.
the commission is also expected to adopt a final decision on the directive on the promotion of electricity from renewable energy sources later this year.
in preparation for the european council in gothenburg in june, the council will examine a communication on the integration of environmental and sustainable development aspects in energy policy and the proposal for a sixth community action plan for sustainable development.
a number of actions will be launched under the action plan for energy efficiency on the basis of the priorities set by the council at its meeting on 5 december 2000. as regards the industrial aspect of this overall strategy, the council recalls that the report to the helsinki european council stressed the need for a strong contribution from the industrial sector to strengthen sustainable development in the economic field.
in order to demonstrate in concrete action the extent to which the council is seeking to maximise the integrated strategy on environmental issues, the council intends to draw up some conclusions at the council meeting in may, where both energy and industry ministers will meet to take this work forward.
finally, on economic and financial matters, the council would like to inform the honourable members that the council submitted to the nice european council a first report on the integration of environmental considerations into the economic policies of the union and its member states.
the gothenburg summit will again follow up this report and in particular examine how to develop a european strategy for sustainable economic development which takes environmental considerations into account.
i therefore ask for your indulgence and for the opportunity to return to this important debate, which concerns one of the three priorities of the swedish presidency, namely the environment.
the honourable member is referring to the council configuration where it is perhaps most difficult to find the concrete action that sustainable development requires.
i am very confident that we will be able to come back and be even more concrete about the possibilities for the general council to integrate environmental aspects and the principles of sustainable development into its work.
the commission is to present the action plan for sustainable development.
but since the issue is such an important part of the swedish presidency, i cannot refrain from giving the swedish presidency's views on what components the sustainable development strategy should contain.
i think it is extremely important that in the strategy which we hope to adopt in gothenburg we clearly include three elements which should be included in the concept of sustainable development.
it should be the ecological element, the economic element and the social element.
it is clear that two of these elements, namely social and economic sustainable development, will be discussed at the stockholm summit.
we are thinking of supplementing the discussion in stockholm on these two aspects of ecologically sustainable development, so to speak, and then turning this into a common strategy which can be adopted at the gothenburg summit.
we have full confidence in the commission's ability to produce a sustainable development strategy that makes europe even greener.
as a co-sponsor with my colleague, mr watts, of amendments which were put forward in the trans-european networks on a strategic environmental impact assessment some four years ago at least, i find it quite surprising that it is said to be too early to talk about a comprehensive strategy in this particular direction.
such measures are essential if transport is to be fully taken into account in the enlargement process which, it is to be hoped, will result in environmentally sustainable policies.
- the next item is the report (a5-0036/2001) by mrs lucas, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision adopting the position of the community within the ec-mexico joint council with a view to the adoption of a decision implementing articles 6, 9, 12 (2) (b) and 50 of the economic partnership, political coordination and cooperation agreement (com (2000) 739 - c5-0698/2000 - 2000/0296 (cns)).
it is therefore of considerable concern that in a significant number of places the agreement is likely to hinder, rather than to support, poverty eradication, human rights and sustainable development.
this clause only applies to discriminatory measures and therefore does not exclude the possibility of adopting new, restrictive, non-discriminatory rules in order, for instance, to protect the environment further.
– mr president, as mrs plooij-van gorsel has said, research has consistently been identified as the key to improving economic growth, creating new jobs, a cleaner environment and better health.
we are seeing moratoria on crop trials and new product approvals; deliberate damage to trial crops; delays in transposing essential legislation; verbal and even physical attacks on healthcare researchers; environmental scare-stories that are unfounded and unsubstantiated; harassment of researchers – even threats to life by animal liberation extremists; and the use of emotive and inaccurate terms such as "frankenstein foods" by antagonistic spokesmen and in the media.
only within such a positive environment will it be possible to realise this potential and be competitive in the industries of the future, in the agriculture of the future, in the highest standards of healthcare, in our contribution to third world development and the elimination of starvation and disease.
this is the case for environmental protection, reconstruction aid and development aid, which require more money, especially in view of the forthcoming enlargement of the union.
moreover, although we are concerned about the socioeconomic role of cotton in certain regions, we totally reject the rapporteur's position that cotton is less harmful to the environment than other crops.
it is well known that a whole range of chemicals are used in cotton production, and we therefore agree with the commission that the member states must take the necessary environmental measures to regulate the use of agricultural land for cotton production.
more specifically, the british conservatives fully agree that member states should remind their producers of the need to comply with environmental legislation.
such people need to have a modern working environment and progressive career prospects in order to enable them to do a good job even better, with more explicit recognition of their capabilities.
how much more urgent are the objectives we are setting for the agricultural sector in terms of conservation of the countryside, cultural heritage, animal welfare and environmental protection?
the combination of the objectives of agricultural policy with the objectives of consumer protection and the objectives of animal welfare and environmental protection.
- the following three reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0061/2001 by mr brunetta, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on access to and interconnection of electronic communications networks and associated facilities (com (2000) 384 - c5-0433/2000 - 2000/0186 (cod)) - a5-0053/2001 by mr paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (com (2000) 393 - c5-0428/2000 - 2000/0184 (cod)); - a5-0062/2001 by mrs niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services (com (2000) 386 - c5-0440/2000 - 2000/0188 (cod)).
this house’s objective is to encourage incumbents to continue to be major players, yet there is a danger that their over-dominance will discriminate against new entrants, when one of our key priorities is to create a climate in which new entrants are allowed to flourish.
going back to my original point, what this is really about is making sure that the european union’s telecommunications industry has a climate in which it can thrive and survive and remain competitive.
poor people frequently depend on fragile ecosystems and therefore conservation and sustainability should be prime objectives of our policy.
in with practical ideas to promote real development: development of human resources, so that indigenous people acquire technical skills; development of vocational skills for rural production, so that people can grow, harvest, process, package and sell their goods for added value with which they can then buy their education, health and homes; building capacity through transfer of technology to smes, promoting use of sustainable energy, application of information technology, enhancing awareness of social education, health and human rights.
deputising for the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
– mr president, i am standing in for my colleague, mr mombaur, who is unable to attend as he is unwell, to give the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
it is a response to the commission's communication on recent changes to the international atomic energy agency's transport regulations.
sadly, in the former rapporteur's report, she took a position which included all dangerous inherent radioactivity, went against reprocessing of radioactive material and recommended that the euratom treaty be withdrawn and the nuclear sector be covered by a chapter about energy in the treaty.
i am angry with the outcome of this report and concerned that the unanimously agreed view of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy was ignored by the committee on agriculture and rural development.
– mr president, one major contribution which the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights made to this report is the emphasis on access to environmental information as a right, not a concession.
the contribution from my committee on practical arrangements incorporated in the final report includes a number of amendments which i am glad were taken up by the environment committee.
i am talking for instance about the inclusion of nuclear fuel and energy and of financial as well as economic analyses, the establishment of accessible registers or lists of available information, the idea that the applicant cannot be charged more than a reasonable cost, which is the actual cost price of collecting the information, and the insistence that there must be a harm test for exceptions, i.e.
but as far as the scope of the proposal is concerned, i am rather disappointed, if not surprised, at the suggestion that the uk government, british labour and conservative members sought to exclude private companies whose activities affect the environment.
does the commissioner think the amendments on article 2(2)(c) that were adopted by the environment committee ensure that privatised companies which supply gas, electricity, water and so on will still be under the obligation to supply this information?
we shall be discussing the economic exploitation of a sustainable growth zone in central and eastern europe, stretching from the baltic to istria.
we will talk about the implementation of eu standards in the candidate countries, which are in the interests of all eu citizens, for example in the field of the environment, road safety, competition law, internal security, food hygiene and many, many other areas.
it will affect our air quality, our water quality, the general quality of our environment throughout the whole of europe and beyond in the coming years if we bring it to fruition.
we have insisted very strongly at first reading that the most stringent measures are taken to control gaseous emissions from large combustion plants throughout the union because of the acid gases that are formed, because of the effects upon the environment, and because of the effects upon human health.
i understand the council has worked very hard to achieve this and it does propose new and better levels of emissions.
that cannot be a bad thing in terms of the recognition of the ability of this parliament to achieve a high level of environmental protection for the people of europe.
it seems to me that what we can do tomorrow in the vote is to take a few more steps forward to achieve a little bit more in terms of benefit to the environment.
that has to be balanced against the possible consequences for the energy strategies and the energy industries of the european union.
we must take this step forward, but inevitably we must also allow for the fact that this step needs to be accommodated not just by the environment but economically as well.
for example, the inclusion of an end date of 2012 will result in old plants being run harder to use up the time remaining and will increase pollution during those four years.
we should not destabilise the delicate compromise package by seeking to further amend this directive, which already delivers substantial and very real environmental improvements.
– mr president, air pollution remains a real threat to citizens' health and well-being in many parts of europe.
our ecosystem continues to suffer from acidification and eutrophification.
it is an issue where europe can and must act since air pollution knows no borders and this directive will make an important contribution to reducing atmospheric pollution.
it now includes significant new and tougher requirements for these plants and this will result in considerably reduced emissions of sulphur dioxide from the large combustion plant sector of the existing member states and ultimately in an enlarged community.
already the common position will reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide from the lcp sector considerably.
the commission can accept amendments nos 10 and 11, which will simplify the obligations for refineries, and amendment no 23 in principle, subject to ensuring that its implementation is compatible with other legislative requirements on access to this type of information on emissions.
the commission can also accept in principle amendment no 1, dealing with economic instruments; amendment no 2, concerning the alignment of the definition of biomass with the recently adopted directive on the incineration of waste, and parts of amendment no 5 requiring further examination of emissions of heavy metals from the lcp sector and emissions from large combustion plants in the maritime sector.
however, the commission cannot accept amendments nos 20, 22 and 27 as they would detract from the common position or introduce inconsistencies with recently adopted and related legislation on waste incineration.
we want to see a significant reduction in air pollution within a period of time that reflects the serious environmental problems we face.
i know you have a lot to do on the sixth environmental action programme and other things.
the proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings aims to tackle acidification, eutrophication and ground level ozone simultaneously.
it is therefore highly significant for two of the four priority areas identified in the commission's proposal for a sixth environmental action programme: nature and bio-diversity and health and the environment.
there are still important areas of the union where nature and biodiversity suffer from the impact of acid rain eutrophication and citizens are affected by ground level ozone, as has already been commented on by members of parliament.
but they all consider that there are uncertainties and other factors that may change the picture in a few years time: energy plans, accession and so on.
of course the costs are higher for some countries than for others because of where the pollution emissions come from.
all emissions are not equal because of different weather patterns.
the commission agrees wholeheartedly that emissions from international shipping are important and must be tackled effectively.
we must also look at the effect of aircraft emissions.
we cannot accept amendment no 5, nor the first part of amendment no 7. emissions from international maritime traffic and cruising aircraft cannot be assigned to individual member states.
the european parliament's delegation wanted to see this recommendation on environmental inspection cast in the form of a directive.
in effect, we are constantly adding to the burden of european union legislation on the environment, with the very good intention of improving our environment, but the member states are signing up to legislation which they are in many cases unable to put in place in the form in which they adopt it.
we are telling them that we have very forward-looking environmental legislation but in instances such as the nitrates directive and the urban waste water directive we find that in fact member states are taking much longer than required to comply with legislation.
indeed the case of the fine that the greek government is still paying to brussels for failing to comply with a waste directive shows that it can be a quarter of a century before a member state is even taken to court for failing to comply with legislation effectively adopted in the 1970s.
parliament felt that the way to deal with this was to take what was originally a recommendation on environmental inspections and use it as a way of enforcing common standards throughout the member states by upgrading it to a directive which member states would, we had hoped, want to take more notice of.
and finally, might i draw attention to the fact that, although we could not formally record this, we have said that we will put a standard clause into directives that will simply say "member states undertake to have in place, by the date of entry into force of the directive, systems of environmental inspection which will enable them fully to comply with the provisions of this directive".
mr president, i know of no one who disagrees with the view that environmental legislation should be enforced equally and effectively across the union.
this is one of the most important issues we have to work on in the next few years and that is also why it is given as one of the priorities in the sixth environmental action programme.
i think when people come to the conciliation process they put a lot of time, effort and energy into it and they want to agree, so it is worthwhile.
we will definitely come back to this and i hope that together we will be able to improve the implementation of the acquis communautaire on the environment.
i can also reveal to him that not only have i been nominated for this task in the legal affairs committee, but i currently have on my file six other technical regulations – wearing my other hat – for the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
the provisions for combustion heaters are introduced to ensure that these devices comply with high safety and environmental standards consistent with current technology.
there is no energy chapter in the treaty.
it does not seem to be part of a coherent energy policy with short-term, medium-term and long-term strategies.
the case for energy efficiency is clear and unanswerable.
it meets all three requisites of an energy policy: environmental impact, security of supply and competitiveness.
all are helped by energy efficiency.
lack of incentive – energy in the european union is artificially cheap because of the subsidies for the conventional forms of energy, which are often denied but certainly there, and the failure to take on board the external costs.
we want to give serious consideration to the setting up of an energy programme agency with the task of producing the coherent energy strategy i mentioned.
we can look at energy appliances.
the sixth framework programme gives us an opportunity to look at research and i hope that tomorrow, commissioner, you will join with us in looking forward to a more intelligent use of energy in the european union.
mr president, energy efficiency is arguably the poor relation in the overall supply situation.
i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his determined effort to put this right, both in his report and the initiative that my colleague has referred to for an energy-intelligent europe – although i confess that i would describe efficiency and conservation more as common sense than intelligence.
everywhere one looks in the energy-rich world we inhabit in europe, and the usa in particular, one can see examples of energy extravagance, even profligacy.
however, i do not believe it is necessary to have an energy chapter in the treaty, nor to impose punitive taxation in order to impose an improved efficiency.
that is the way forward to achieve energy efficiency.
as we all know, energy efficiency is an issue which has acquired great importance in the formulation of our energy policy.
energy efficiency is one of the elements of a coherent and rational energy policy.
but we must say that it is one of the elements which can enable us to meet the kyoto objectives, which can guarantee us that sustainable development over time and which, moreover, can help to strengthen security of supply in the long term.
as the commission's green paper on security of supply and the kyoto commitments, presented last december, rightly points out, energy efficiency and energy saving are a contribution to energy policy, since each kilowatt saved equals the need to produce one kilowatt less.
the report's scope and the constructive opinions it contains will help us to promote and consolidate the implementation of the action plan for energy efficiency.
i know that some of you may think it is not ambitious to set a target of 1% increase in energy efficiency in a sustained way over the next ten years.
you must understand, ladies and gentlemen, the effort it will take over the next ten years to maintain that 1% increase in energy efficiency.
of the approximately 18% margin that we have calculated could be obtained from energy efficiency, it would be possible to achieve by the year 2010 two thirds, that is, about 12% improvement in energy efficiency.
i am glad that mr wijkman concludes his report by saying that we can continue to disconnect economic growth from energy consumption.
that is, we can grow more and at the same time be able to contain the growth in energy demand.
a proposal for a directive on energy efficiency and building standards in the european union has already been distributed to the services, and this will ensure energy efficiency in buildings, especially public buildings.
i hope that with the directive on the energy performance of buildings we can take a step forward in this direction.
the question of the european energy programming agency is usually more complex, as you know, but in any case it is not so much the body or the administrative structure that is important for carrying out these activities as the way in which they are carried out.
i would like to conclude by pointing out that the requests and comments in mr wijkman's report, with all its contributions, will be taken into account - and some of them very shortly, for example the directive on buildings - and i believe that they are fully consistent with the general energy policy which the commission is proposing, of which you have already had concrete evidence: the directive on electricity from renewable energy sources, communications - such as this one - on energy saving, the green paper, and, shortly, the directive on energy efficiency in construction.
in today's case, we are approving something which has nothing to do with energy saving but with the efficiency of the whole system: the liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors.
this is not at all incompatible with the existence of complementary measures which encourage us to save and use energy better.
as some of the honourable members have said - mr chichester and mr beysen, amongst others - the key is to educate and to make people aware of how we must be absolutely economical in the use of energy, because even if we can afford it, there are costs beyond the price of energy itself which we must never forget.
we can't waste it.
it will be a first step towards explaining how the european union is going to deliver on sustainable development.
it is obvious to us that unless we factor the environment into our economic thinking there will no chance of having a sustainable economy.
we have to find an economic path that does not strip the world of its natural resources and produce toxic or greenhouse emissions.
if 3% growth depends on depleting fish stocks, increasing car travel or cleaning up after crime, it is not the sort of growth that improves the quality of life or quality of the environment for anyone.
it is not sustainable and that is why we have urged the use of appropriate environmental indicators alongside the social and economic ones.
we can then adopt a coherent approach to sustainable development and see if we really are achieving the results we want.
-(en) i wholeheartedly support measures to ensure public access to environmental information.
it is high time that as much information as possible is made available to our citizens, and environmental information must be a priority.
this concerns the right regulatory environment; colleagues will have copies of the text.
now it is not surprising that, in the ten pages here, the section on the right regulatory environment is by far the shortest.
on top of everything that was agreed at lisbon we are going to have a new ecological dimension to this programme and, far from the virtuous circle that mr goebbels was talking about this morning, we have a vicious circle.
once we actually created new jobs; we are now looking for new burdens to place on business in the new ecological dimension!
we still have directives on lawnmowers, fluorescent ballast and one on electrical waste which is quite simply going to be a tax on computers.
andersson highlighted the environmental technology.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, putting the principles of sustainability into practice is a difficult task and i think the words of the president-in-office of the council are encouraging, but can i ask him to come back to the question i asked?
we have a swedish environment commissioner: we now have a swedish presidency which has a firm commitment to the environment.
and the european union, as a multinational organisation of fifteen developed democracies, clearly has a duty as well as a significant role to play in all the global efforts to promote democratisation, sustainable development and peaceful progress.
– as mr fava said in his excellent introductory speech, democratic elections are the essential foundations for sustainable development, as well as of course for sustainable democracy and pluralism.
sustainability is important too.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
but we should recognise that ukraine also has a coal industry and is pushing ahead to promote energy efficiency and renewable sources.
i fully agree with the rapporteur on the role that political dialogue can play in the acp regions and countries, which can often be characterised by a climate of instability.
such river basin plans require as their basis a thorough analysis of the environmental impact and economic aspects – a task to be completed under the water framework directive by the end of 2004. at the same time, a strict deterioration clause applies; impacts and measures that cause deterioration of a water body are prohibited, unless the member state invokes one of the limited derogation clauses, which in turn are subject to meeting a range of conditions, including the environmental impact and economic analysis mentioned.
- the next item is the report (a5-0080/2001) by mr purvis, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the future of the biotechnology sector (2000/2100 (ini)).
like all new technologies, there are bound to be concerns: environmental, ethical and safety concerns.
it will use fewer pesticides and herbicides and therefore improve the environment and natural habitats.
with valuable opinions from the committee on agriculture and rural and development and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, for which i sincerely thank their draftsmen, the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has considered all the implications and decisively calls for us in parliament, the commission, the council and the member state governments to give this industry the support and commitment which it deserves and so badly needs.
we look to the member states to get on with the job of implementing the outstanding directives and providing the positive environment for their biotech industries to develop and prosper.
the final point i would like to make is that we must reinforce the environmental possibilities of biotechnology.
it should be recognised that it gives us tremendous opportunities for tackling pollution and reducing resource depletion and gives us opportunities in the food sector to improve the output from our agricultural industries.
we also need to speed up economic reforms, and in this agenda, full liberalisation of the energy sector by 2003 is a priority.
it will not only lower prices in europe but also encourage energy suppliers to be more efficient.
whether it be this issue or the environment or the application of the precautionary principle, we must have the democratic freedom to be able to insist on some minimum standards acceptable to the majority of our citizens.
i note with approval too that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy have adopted all but one of the amendments of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
there has been no challenge yet and the arguments in my view ring a bit hollow from the united states of america about the possible neglect of our international obligations in the same week as president bush has so publicly repudiated the kyoto agreement on climate change.
if we ban the use of lead in new windows, we will not be able to recycle the old windows when they come into the waste stream.
we do, however, have a problem in terms of its disposal where harm to the environment can be caused by inappropriate disposal and we need to take sensible action with regard to that.
mr president, i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for its report and in particular the rapporteur, mr saccon, for his excellent and balanced contribution to this matter.
the commission will focus its assessment mainly on the use of certain pvc additives, lead, cadmium and phthalates, and on the treatment of pvc waste, in line with the commitment it made in its proposal for a directive on end-of-life vehicles.
these are two environmental issues that require action and the committee's report is clear on them.
i would also like to emphasize that the commission's work is based on sustainable development in all three dimensions: social, economic and environmental.
the european parliament is closely kept informed of developments and the commission will present in the coming months a green paper and a communication, based on the opinions received during the consultation procedure, setting out a community strategy on environmental issues related to pvc.
another thing i would like to mention is information technology and sustainable energy in the development budget.
(applause from the right)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
however, speaking on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, i have to express my concern at the absence of any major areas of this committee's priorities in these guidelines.
my second point relates to energy.
what we must do is enhance europe's renewable energy capacity.
therefore, we need corporate approach looking at alternative sources of energy.
turning to the buitenweg report, i should also like to emphasise the very clear emergence of interinstitutional cooperation in environmental and transport matters and as regards an interinstitutional recruitment office – which i very much hope will soon be up and running, to ensure that european citizens get the best value for money.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– mr president, on behalf of the environment committee, i would like to add a few final words before the commissioner sums up.
make sure the money is properly spent in a sustainable way.
we cannot compromise on environmental standards in those areas.
i would ask the commission to renew its efforts to clarify the legal basis for some areas of action in the field of the environment.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– mr president, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy effectively does not have much supervision over large parts of the budget.
what you will be doing, however, is sending a message to this commission and the public who elected us here – you remember them, some of them actually bother to visit us occasionally – that we are steadfastly against waste, fraud and mismanagement; that we are drawing a line in the sand, that what went before 1999 was completely unacceptable and what happens now and in the future must be better.
it proposes four priorities: competitiveness, environment, safety and capacity of the air transport system.
we ask the commissioner for employment to identify a clear timetable for binding disability access standards to the built environment to be established, and, equally, to ensure seamless access by disabled persons to all modes of public transport.
multiply that by all the diseases and disorders, physical and mental, add the impact of ending the communist system in eastern europe and the two-way cross-border movement of health problems, from environmental pollution to sexual and drug-related diseases, and the economic impact of health problems is colossal.
i commend this report, the work of the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy's additions to his work.
mr president, i welcome the statement that future spring summits are going to be sustainability summits, and thank the swedish presidency for their real leadership on this.
but if we were looking at the world properly, all our summits would be about sustainability.
the environmental and social effects of the liberalisation of the energy sector, for example, are sustainable issues.
how will this ensure its sustainable development in future?
sustainability is not just a domestic issue.
eu heads of state and government at the lisbon and stockholm summits aspired to create the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of delivering sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion.
in the guidelines for participation in the third un conference on the least developed countries, adopted by the council on 22 december 2000, the union reaffirms its firm intention to make every effort to ensure that the un action plan for the sustainable development of the least developed countries and their progressive integration into the world economy contains concrete and operational policy guidelines and measures based on three factors.
it is clear that without an appropriate environment and other support efforts, the vast majority of ldcs are unable to make sufficient use of their trade opportunities on their own.
it is up to these countries themselves to create a more favourable environment for investment through internal policies which we can support, which we can advise, but which are reflected in the sometimes difficult internal political decisions, and the difficulty of making these decisions is not our responsibility.
i believe - and my colleagues in the commission share this view - that only by greater collective pressure can we accelerate the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development in these countries, so that perhaps we will see - to use mr miranda's expression - the end of the tunnel one day.
this un conference therefore has to be about a new deal for ldcs; one that promotes pro-poor economic growth, poverty reduction and sustainable development.
the compensation was always granted in a veiled manner, in a climate of protectionism and businessism, insofar as this decision-making deviates from market mechanisms.
the overriding priority of the swedish presidency is and remains to ensure the sustainable and viable development of the fisheries sector by restoring a balance between fleet capacity and fishing activity on the one hand and available fisheries resources on the other.
the swedish minister for agriculture and the minister for fisheries explained in detail in february the importance of a review of the common fisheries policy, a more efficient policy for the fishing fleet after the current multiannual development programmes have expired, the development of a strategy to integrate environmental considerations into the common fisheries policy, the application of the precautionary principle and multiannual strategies for fixing total allowable catches.
on 20 march the commission presented its green paper on the future of multiannual development programmes and on 16 march its communication on the integration of environmental protection requirements into multiannual development programmes.
an action plan on biodiversity in the fisheries sector is expected to be available from 28 march, that is, last week.
i call question no 19 by mr fitzsimons (h-0294/01): subject: human-induced climate change last january, a united nations scientific working group in shanghai adopted a report concluding that most of the warming observed over the past 50 years must be attributed to human activities.
at a second meeting in geneva, the working group concluded that current climate change, if it continues at the current rate, could have irreversible impacts, such as melting ice caps, increased river flooding in europe and increased risk of flooding and erosion in coastal regions.
the council is of course fully aware of the appalling and deeply worrying consequences of climate change, as described in the third assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, to which the member of parliament also refers.
the union's positions on this issue are well documented, not least through media coverage of the climate change issue, and the council hardly needs to remind that the european community and its member states have played, and continue to play, a very active role in the international negotiations on climate change.
some of our main and repeatedly stated objectives with the ongoing negotiations are to pave the way for the rapid ratification of the kyoto protocol, so that it can enter into force by 2002, and to achieve real reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
in this respect, the work being carried out within the commission, such as the european climate change programme and the work based on the green paper on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the european union, is of particular importance.
the president of the council (environment), the swedish minister for the environment, and commissioner wallström, responsible for environmental matters, visited washington in the last few days to convey the union's concerns directly to the us government and to discuss how to persuade the us government to resume discussions on the kyoto protocol.
i know that the swedish minister for the environment is about to land in stockholm.
i have therefore not had the opportunity to receive directly from him an evaluation of the outcome of the visit, but i can assure you that the council will do everything possible to ensure that the kyoto protocol, which is one of the most important instruments in our work for sustainable development in europe, really becomes a reality and will be ratified.
draftsman of the opinion for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– mr president, i too, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, fervently congratulate mrs sanders-ten holte on her report, which has certainly adopted the spirit of the amendments we brought in.
it is even more pleasurable because the maritime sector is probably the most environmentally sustainable part of the tens network.
however, the us administration confirmed this abandonment - and therefore its refusal to ratify - and gave no indication of the content of the review of policies in the field of climate change - a review which was recently announced - or indeed of the date when this information would be made public.
the only good news, if you will, is that at this stage no one has challenged the current state of scientific knowledge on climate change - which is a given - and the united states has indicated that it will continue to participate in future international negotiations.
mrs wallström made it clear to our american counterparts that abandoning the protocol would be a mistake, and that starting all over again would not only be a waste of time but also risk breaking the fragile balance that the protocol had managed to establish between the industrialized world, which has contributed greatly to the problem, and the developing countries, whose per capita emissions are far behind those of the industrialized countries.
this means our consistency, which is to continue our efforts to combat climate change at home.
the european climate change programme that mrs gonzález referred to has now been established.
you can count on the commission to continue to ensure, as mrs isler béguin has asked, that we and the union are the driving force on climate change internationally, both in the projection of what we are doing to others and in our own implementation strategy.
like mrs myller, i have no doubt that both these issues will be on the agenda of the us-europe summit in gothenburg at the next european council, which you know will be mainly devoted to the environment.
mr president, fishing is an activity which takes place in a naturally hostile environment, and is clearly associated with risk-taking.
fishermen work in an unpredictable environment and are confronted with daily challenges from bad weather, fires on board, loss of power, poor vessel construction, poor communications and sometimes out-of-date navigation equipment.
the communication focuses on the administrative environment necessary to reach these objectives.
paragraph 12 of the joint resolution calls for closer cooperation and dialogue between ukraine and the european parliament on energy-related matters.
this is crucial to building up the ukraine economy, because structural and technical improvements are also needed in the gas, oil and coal sectors and while the commitment of ukraine to improving energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources is welcome, the dominant factors for the foreseeable future will be fossil fuel and nuclear power.
it is essential that this parliament, its committees and its delegation to the ukraine are linked into the work of the subcommittee of the political cooperation agreement which handles energy and environment issues.
mr president, we will probably never know the real ecological, biological, psychological and economic magnitude of the chernobyl disaster.
we must have sustainable energy policies.
in over 40 years of operation the nuclear industry has not even solved the problem of radioactive waste and, above all, it poses massive threats to human health and the environment.
she is the coordinator for our group on the environment, public health and consumer protection committee and, in her general enthusiasm, she is like a one-woman congress of berlin.
however, as the regulation refers only to pet animals and to the adoption of veterinary measures to protect health, the environment committee agreed that the regulation should be based only on article 152(4)(b) which relates to public health and which covers rabies.
there have been very different views on this, but the view of the environment committee is that this would pose an unacceptable risk and ferrets should therefore be removed from annex i, part b. finally, it is very important that detailed information is available for consumers and for staff at eu borders to ensure they are familiar with the requirements.
but i would urge that the real route to economic prosperity in europe is, as mr karas eloquently stated, structural and economic reform which will lead to sustainable prosperity, an increase in employment and a reduction in unemployment.
the commission very much appreciates the continued interest which the european parliament and its committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has expressed in the development and establishment of an information society in europe.
since then, i have had lengthy deliberations and negotiations with commission staff, whom i thank for their time, with the french presidency, which prioritised this report, and indeed latterly with the swedish presidency, which has equally been generous with its time and energy.
i have long thought that the eur 100m we spend every year on the use of this building for one week a month is a terrible waste of resources.
– mr president, the importance of lifelong learning in creating a learning society is fundamental to meet the challenges of economic and social change and sustainable development that we face today.
although i personally have a problem with the term ‘social market economy’, as we in britain associate it with social democracy, the description in the report rightly encapsulates the vision of a dynamic, deregulated, competitive, free-market economy that is sensitive to the needs of the environment and the labour markets, which i clearly welcome.
on another matter, i too call on the eu to implement rapidly the suggested liberalisation of the energy, post, airport and railway sectors.
i was twelve or thirteen at the time and that publicity and the photographs on television woke many of us up to the concerns we still have for the environment and drew our attention to the waste of resources attached to so much of our way of living and our manufacturing processes.
so i am pleased that we have this european legislation, and indeed the whole waste strategy of the commission, which is forcing individual countries like my own that are recalcitrant and bow too easily to industry pressure on their own doorstep to recognise and put into practice the principles of sustainability.
so i welcome this legislation and consider it important that industry in my country and perhaps countries elsewhere should recognise that if it does not seize the opportunity to modernise its processes and live up to the high environmental standards then it will lose out on market opportunities across europe.
i put this one question to the commissioner about the issue of low-cost, low-energy light bulbs: is it better to have them recycled but to put up the cost, or is it better to keep down the cost, encourage their use and perhaps tackle the other serious environmental problem of global warming a little bit more rapidly than we might otherwise be able to do?
– mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mr florenz for his work in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the excellent cooperation he has established between all the groups and with the commission.
we are tackling the specific problem of electrical and electronic waste for the following reasons.
we have heard them before, but i repeat that this is the fastest growing part of the waste stream – indeed, it is growing three times faster than other waste streams.
each of us produces on average about 14 kgs per year of such waste.
by the year 2010, when this directive will be fully operational, electrical and electronic waste will account for over 8% of the entire municipal waste stream.
ninety per cent of this electrical and electronic waste is currently landfilled or incinerated with no pre-treatment.
electrical and electronic equipment is a major source of certain hazardous substances in the waste stream.
member states are required to set up separate collection schemes from households; consumers have the right to dispose of their waste free of charge and producers are responsible for taking the waste from central collection points and ensuring that it is properly treated through recovery and re-use.
nowhere is it said that producers cannot inform consumers of the costs of waste management.
now we are confronted with a total number of 136 amendments: 100 on the proposal on electronic waste and 36 on the proposal on hazardous substances.
we are, however, disappointed that the committee on the environment did not accept our amendments that substances in natural nutrients used in agriculture should not be classified either as priority or hazardous priority substances.
the committee on the environment also did not accept our amendment no 3 which was to review the procedure for priority hazardous substances.
mrs breyer ought to have mentioned when she was talking about amendment no 27 that she was speaking about an amendment tabled by herself on behalf of her group and not on behalf of the committee on the environment.
this priority list of thirty-two proposed substances, ranked according to their known dangerous properties, is the right way to start trying to deal with the problem of water pollution.
the idea of getting close to zero emissions of these substances is a fairly vague objective and i think some of the european parliament's amendments today help to clarify this issue.
mr president, as we look at the world's environmental problems, some of them, such as the loss of habitats and biodiversity, seem to leave us powerless of achieving any solution.
mr president, we have finite resources to expend on environmental improvement, even in the developed west.
money must be targeted where it will have the most beneficial environmental impact.
it would be a waste of resources to have to replace or reline all these water-pipes on the basis of this priority list when the resources could be better deployed in areas of real concern.
this leads me directly to the key issue under discussion in the committee on the environment.
at the same time the proposed selection of these plant protection products as priority substances will ensure the sustainable protection of drinking water resources.
following adoption of this list i will ensure that the ensuing work on measures for phasing out emissions, discharges and losses of priority hazardous substances is carried out according to the environmental objectives and timetable set out in the directive.
i am seeking your support for this work and i sincerely hope that we show the same speed and determination in the implementation of the new water framework directive for the benefit of the aquatic environment in europe.
this new, strict anti-smoking legislation covers all tobacco products and sets maximum levels of tar, carbon monoxide and nicotine.
-(en) i support these measures which introduce strict new recycling rules allowing consumers and small retailers to return waste electrical and electronic equipment free of charge and encouraging manufacturers to take responsibility.
we live in a throwaway society, where old computers, kettles, refrigerators and freezers add to the waste stream at an unprecedented rate.
consumers across europe must pay their fair share in the fight against the tide of electronic waste.
once again, this proves europe's commitment to creating a healthier and safer environment for our citizens.
many members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection supported the move for more binding regulation, and the debate continues.
finally, in the words of the world health organisation's european charter on alcohol: "all children and adolescents have the right to grow up in an environment protected from the negative consequences of alcohol consumption and to the extent possible from the promotion of alcoholic beverage".
mr president, i wish to express my support and the support of my group for the rapporteur and the amendments retabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
i support the environment committee's retabled amendments, in particular the specific reference to the precautionary principle, to market monitoring and the european product safety network.
the technical implementation of this proposal would be very complicated, but i will nevertheless keep an eye on it and will be advocating in the council for a deviation from the maximum number of 90 animals, provided that environmental and employment aspects are taken into account.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- (nl) mr president, mr prodi, you have spoken of the sustainable development that must take place on a world scale.
there is also a discussion on whether european companies should perhaps report not only on the social and environmental standards they adhere to within europe, but also on which social and environmental standards they adhere to when investing abroad.
would it not be a good idea to start a discussion with the big companies about the need for them to respect european environmental standards even when they invest in taiwan, namibia or brazil?
in this way europe could do something for the environment outside europe too, and this is a concrete initiative.
however, one of the aspects that does not require new legislation, as he proposed, and which will bring us some important first steps closer to sustainability is simply the implementation and enforcement of existing environmental legislation in the union.
however, one thing that does not require any new legislation, as he has proposed, and which will take us on some important first steps towards sustainability is clearly and simply the implementation and enforcement of existing environmental legislation within the union.
when we talk about corporate social responsibility and new actions, we are talking about greater investment in people, in the environment, in the social environment and the space in which they are located and, of course, beyond the commitments and obligations they have under the law.
in order not to waste time, i propose that we begin the debate.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on two recommendations for second reading: - a5-0140/2001 by mr watts, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 95/21/ec on the application to ships calling at community ports or in waters under the jurisdiction of member states of international standards for maritime safety, pollution prevention and shipboard living conditions (port state control) (5179/1/2001 - c5-0074/2001 - 2000/0065 (cod)) - a5-0144/2001 by mr ortuondo larrea, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 94/57/ec establishing common rules and standards for ship inspection and survey organisations and for the relevant activities of maritime administrations (5178/1/2001 - c5-0075/2001 - 2000/0066 (cod)).
we believe, as a parliament – and we have said this many times in the past – that this is essential for both environmental and safety reasons.
i would remind you that the erika package, as has already been said, was presented just after a truly regrettable disaster, which caused environmental problems for 400 kilometres of european coastline; that we acted swiftly and correctly on the proposals, but unfortunately we were not able to reach an agreement between the three institutions in the informal trilogue.
the council has in particular called for the environment and climate to be one of these strategic themes.
it is deeply troubling that the united states, which is responsible for 25 percent of the world's carbon dioxide emissions, chooses to side with an international agreement that has been negotiated for a decade.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
the eu troika, led by environment minister larsson, travelled to washington in april to continue to try to maintain dialogue with the us on the global problem of climate change.
these talks showed that the united states does not question the issue of climate change.
we therefore welcome the participation of the united states in the bonn meeting on the environment in july and hope that there will be a constructive dialogue and a fruitful exchange of views.
i would like to emphasise that both the eu and the us bear a heavy responsibility for global problems and challenges, such as the threat of climate change.
we identified eight such strategic themes, ranging from the emerging international security challenges, globalisation and the multilateral trading system, through energy issues and consumer protection, to the digital economy and the fight against crime.
i am not thinking just of trade issues, which should always be put in the wider perspective of the colossal trade flows, more than a usd 1 billion a day, which benefit both our regions, but also of more fundamental issues like environmental protection, on which the minister spoke, and capital punishment.
we want the commission to look at possible eu actions in response to a continued us refusal to respond to climate change, including action at the wto, on the grounds that by not internalising its external energy costs, us goods are receiving an unfair government subsidy, which is against the rules of world trade.
if the us spent just a fraction of the resources it currently spends on missile defence on defending itself against climate change instead, the world would be a much safer place.
- as a british member of parliament, i was very much afraid when the proposed directive was first considered in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy that it would deal a severe financial and bureaucratic blow to the thriving charity shop sector in britain and ireland - a trade largely unknown in the rest of the european union.
we must remember that these generations deserve the same sort of pension security and safety and sustainability as that which we are talking about for ourselves.
it is all very well for us to wish that people should have a safe and secure pension, but for this to happen, pensions have to be sustainable, the funding has to be put in place.
- oral question to the commission (b5-0170/01) by mr westendorp y cabeza, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, pursuant to rule 42 of the rules of procedure, on the implementation by the member states of the gas directive.
only this month, after the energy council of 14/15 may, the presidency concluded: "there is broad consensus ..." (does that consensus include france?)
the presidency also declared, on behalf of the energy ministers – did that include the french energy minister?
the irony is that france is not only disadvantaging its fellow members; it is not just undermining the very essence of the european union, the single market and fair, open competition, it is also disadvantaging its own energy-using industries.
worse even than this, however, is the cynicism of the council's communiqué after the may energy council.
it did not dare to mention this impasse caused by one of those members actually sitting at the table, but glibly committed itself, including, i assume, the french energy minister, to further, bigger and faster liberalisation of the energy markets.
finally, the last point, namely the problems of implementing elements of sustainable development, is, i believe, part of the policy that parliament, the commission and the council will be discussing in gothenburg.
in these areas, research is needed, including on concrete examples, to support sustainable development policies.
and you, mr piétrasanta, have defended the idea of well-defined ecological zones in a specific area.
i think this is a good example of the application of sustainable development at local level and i think we could imagine creating a network of eco-sites in europe.
they are told that directorates-general of the commission are already being invited to submit bids, so it is agriculture bidding against environment bidding against health, and so on.
it is important to train north koreans in modern industrial and clerical skills and we need to give aid in a non-nuclear energy sector as well as raising the textile quotas.
the debate focused on the strategy for sustainable development and the integration of environmental issues into economic policy.
when sustainable development was written into the amsterdam treaty, we were criticised for not being sufficient and not committing to action.
we now have to take a position on concrete proposals, objectives and means, based on the commission's well-formulated proposal for a strategy for sustainable development and the reports presented by hulthén and blokland.
a strong policy for sustainable development requires a frank and clear social criticism.
biodiversity is threatened, acidification continues, the fertilizer industry is expanding, the chemicals are accumulating in our bodies, air pollution is killing, climate change is accelerating - and all of this is happening right now, at this very moment.
the economic, social and ecological perspectives must be interwoven and given equal weight in all policy areas.
in gothenburg, this objective must be complemented by the ecological dimension, if we are to be the region which takes the greatest responsibility for nature and the environment.
in the further development of the sustainability strategy, dialogue with civil society and between the union institutions must be deepened.
the presidency's ambition for the council meeting in gothenburg is that we can adopt a strategy which will inter alia link the lisbon process with the sustainable development strategy, which will define the ecological dimension by setting a number of clear, follow-up objectives to reverse the negative trends we are now seeing.
it will mean that all future decisions within the union will be examined from the point of view of sustainability.
it will clearly demonstrate europe's ambition to reduce its climate impact and to participate actively and proactively in global cooperation.
it will help to minimise the negative impact of chemicals on health and the environment and ensure that sustainable development is regularly discussed at the highest political level.
i would particularly like to stress the importance of having the political courage to set concrete, time-bound targets for achieving sustainable development.
in particular, i would like to highlight in this report the need for a climate change adaptation programme and renewable energy targets, the need for a change in transport policy, the need for a new chemicals policy based on the precautionary principle, the need for a sustainability analysis of all decisions and the need to strengthen the sustainability perspective also in the union's global work.
sustainable development cannot be achieved without addressing the global perspective.
the european union should take a leading role in the work of global sustainable development.
we must be clear in our commitment to the world summit for sustainable development in south africa next year to achieve the necessary results.
what do they want from the eu, especially after the us action on climate policy?
they are calling for the eu to take a clear leadership role in the global effort to promote sustainable development, combat poverty and combat the ongoing environmental degradation.
let me summarize this: sustainability on a continent is not sustainable sustainability.
as hulthén said, we can never count on one part of the earth to live sustainably while the rest of the earth is perishing in poverty and environmental degradation.
in his report, mr blokland has pointed out the link between the depletion of our natural resources and the impact on the environment in relation to economic policy.
the conclusion is that the absence of price-tags on scarce resources and environmental impact leads to insufficient integration of environmental concerns and economics.
it is clear to me that an important part of future sustainability policy is to better internalize environmental costs into the cost of goods and services in the economy.
the proposals presented in the report are important instruments for the further development of a strategy for sustainable development and sectoral integration.
the presidency's starting point is that it is important to integrate environmental issues into the broad economic policy guidelines.
here too, market-based economic instruments will increasingly be used to price scarce resources and to assess whether subsidies and tax exemptions lead to negative environmental impacts.
the development of the environmental integration strategy shall include objectives, timetables and follow-up mechanisms in the bepg.
i can also add to this a report from sweden, from the swedish environment agency, which shows that it generally takes much longer for nature and the environment to recover from the environmental damage that we have caused and are still causing.
– mr president, i welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate on behalf of the employment and social affairs committee, even though that was a very last-minute edition which i think exemplifies a lot of what is wrong at the moment with the way we think about sustainability within this institution.
we are not integrating our social, economic and environmental policies.
it is also exemplified by the fact that the one commissioner we have with us this evening is the environment commissioner.
i welcome her here, but when we are discussing sustainability i would very much like to see in future the commissioners from my own committee, and also at least from the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
if we are to have long-term sustainability and develop a truly green economy, we have to take care to foster environmental-friendly businesses and use resources efficiently, and that includes the way in which we use our workforces.
hence my committee’s call for rapid progress in enabling people to work efficiently through effective consultation and participation, because democracy is also part of sustainability, as are reduced working hours and good quality work in safe working conditions supported by an effective system of social security.
if we are demanding that businesses provide social and environmental audits, as we quite rightly do, we need the accountants and other professionals than can do that.
if we want builders who can construct energy-efficient buildings, we need to train them.
hence my committee’s call for all european union funded training initiatives to take the environmental dimension fully into account, if we are really preparing people for the future.
social inclusion, as has already been said, is a key component of a sustainable society, hence the need for a guaranteed minimum income to provide for basic needs.
at present the dispossessed feel they have no stake in the future and that, under anybody’s reasoning, is a wicked waste.
sustainable development is about creating a world in which there are no losers.
our common future depends on finding an effective way to ensure integration and sustainability.
mr president, this is one of the most important documents we will be debating in the field of the environment in this parliamentary cycle.
given its enhanced legal status, this document will be of greater significance than any of the other environmental action plans i have seen going through parliament in the last 10 or so years.
i, like many others tomorrow, will vote for this report and the bulk of the amendments, knowing that by going forward to the second reading we are taking steps in the long process of developing an environment policy for the european union which will outlast all the presidencies and all the ministers that this parliament will see, and which will probably also outlast most of the members of this house.
mr president, i do not intend in any way to criticise the environment committee or the rapporteur, but like mr corbett i wish to emphasise that there must be a better way to conduct voting than this.
we cannot have the world's cheapest food and the world's best animal welfare and environmental protection.
who is going to pay for the wetlands, biodiversity, etc.?
if we want good animal care and a good environment, it's not free.
we must also design an economic system which ensures that those who produce good animal care and good environment are also paid, perhaps in a different way than by higher prices.
the report was passed in the committee on the environment by 40 votes to 0 with 2 abstentions.
these two epidemics have one thing in common: they can both be directly linked to feeding animal waste back to animals.
the fact is that it was multiplied by the recycling of waste into meat and bone meal.
if we cannot get it right for the beef for human consumption, if we cannot get it right in germany, which has one of the best records in the eu, how can we expect that the waste will be correctly segregated in greece or italy or spain?
it is important that catering waste is included in these proposals.
they include those on waste incineration, allowing small-farm incinerators to continue; on allowing burial on farm in remote areas; on the exemption of manure produced on farms; on the uses of meat and bone meal as fertilizers, given the safeguards that exist; also, on the alternatives to rendering, such as alkaline hydrolysis.
my group commends her approach and will support the bulk of the amendments which have been tabled in the committee on the environment.
that was the indifference, and sometimes the greed, of those who stood by while the methods of rendering animal waste and feeding it back to animals became more and more extensive and the potential for disaster therefore even greater.
in regard to the disposal of animal waste we have found that one attempt to avoid risk has faced us with another risk.
so it is a pleasure to acknowledge that not every environmental problem is beyond resolution and that, in some instances as least, we are capable of turning the tide.
such is the case with air pollution.
it is claimed that air pollution still contributes to more premature deaths than traffic accidents, but progress is being made.
ground-level ozone is a pollutant which still severely affects the health of many of our citizens.
government studies in my country suggest that ozone may lead to the premature death of 12 500 people each year.
pollution has further economic consequences, by reducing crop yields and damaging trees.
european legislation plays an increasing role in setting tighter standards and curbing pollution.
nothing better illustrates this than the need for concerted action on ozone.
it is created by a chemical reaction between sunlight and oxides of nitrogen and volatile organic compounds derived mostly from vehicle emissions and petrol distribution.
the national emissions ceiling directive will provide the framework for reductions in key air pollutants.
this directive concerns the action which member states should take locally to deal with the particular problem of ozone.
at first reading i welcomed the commission's proposals to set a target value encouraging member states not to permit ozone to exceed the world health organisation's guidelines of more than 20 days a year; to alert the public if local health risks are high; and to compare the performance of different countries.
i want them to work towards a date by which the long-term objective of never having ozone levels exceeding who guidelines will be achieved.
i want them quickly to implement short-term action plans if ozone levels exceed double the who recommendations, and i want them to provide the commission with information of a standard which enables comparison to be made between the performance of different member states, so that the public can determine which countries are making a real effort and which are not.
in saying this, i recognise the need to take into account the fact that one country may not be responsible for the pollution which affects it.
the north west of england, for example, may generate more traffic fumes than many places elsewhere in europe but, because we are not blessed with too much sunlight, ozone is less of a problem to us than it may be in spain.
we have an opportunity to make a contribution to the process of reducing pollution and cleaning the air we breathe.
i hope parliament will give its support to the proposals in this report and the compromises agreed between the political parties, and that we play our part in achieving what could be another success story for the european environment.
this report excellently demonstrates why environment policy has to be achieved at a european level.
ozone is a european problem and the best example i can think of a problem that has to be addressed at the european level.
for example, within the united kingdom, where in many ways the circumstances are amongst the most favourable within the european union, 50% of the ozone is created by emissions outside the uk.
indeed, in many parts of europe, a great many of the problems about ozone are not necessarily a consequence of activities by that individual member state.
ozone is a collective problem which has to be dealt with collectively.
and still they will not solve the problem of ozone.
furthermore in spite of all the rhetoric about trade policy supporting sustainable development, when you look at who attends the 133 meetings, it is usually simply the representatives from the trade and finance ministries alone.
but if we are serious about integrating international trade and sustainable development, then the very minimum we need to do is to ensure that representatives from social affairs, from environment, from development ministries have their voices heard at 133 meetings as well.
if sustainability really is a key issue for the eu and if the swedish presidency is really serious about openness, could the presidency tell us if first of all it envisages a formalised dialogue between parliament and the 133 committee, and secondly if it is ready to propose revisions to the composition of that committee.
i am therefore pleased to be able to comment briefly on it and to put it in the context of the twofold perspective of the common commercial policy on the one hand and the european union's strategy for sustainable development and the fight against poverty on the other.
thirdly, the so-called 'social and environmental incentive' scheme, which provides additional tariff reductions to countries which effectively implement the framework conventions of the international labour organisation and which commit themselves to sustainable management of the tropical forest.
these additional tariff reductions are reinforced in the commission's proposal to remedy their current weakness, in which case we are doubling the margin in our proposal, preferably in line with social and environmental commitments.
we want these countries to make more meaningful use of our gsp, by implementing more effective sustainable development strategies, so as to tackle the root causes of the economic problems, drugs and violence.
it is the concept of sustainable development, applied in this case, in that it refers to job-creating growth, to social progress, which requires the effective implementation of the ilo framework conventions and to environmental protection, of which the sustainable management of the tropical forest is a decisive aspect in this region.
we therefore propose that our andean partners be closely monitored in their efforts to diversify their exports, to combat drugs and to promote these social and environmental aspects.
some have already expressed some concern about the parallel that the commission draws between the generosity of the drug regime and the concern to assess the economic, social and environmental performance of partner countries.
how else can we justify this difference if we do not combine these extraordinary tariff preferences with implementing standards which only countries which share our european values of sustainable development to such a degree are willing to subscribe to?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the 'everything but arms' initiative, this proposal for a new community gsp that we are making on the eve of doha confirms the priority that the union intends to give, through the new round, to the integration of developing countries into the world economy, with a view to more equitable and more sustainable development, and the commission needs your support in order to carry out this ambitious undertaking.
secondly, regarding enhanced gsp that will, hopefully, provide an incentive for improved social and environmental performance, could you say how successful the existing scheme has been, and whether you think a doubling is going to be enough?
given as you say that the value of gsp is being eroded all the time because of the lowering of tariffs overall, what other mechanisms would you foresee in order to try to strengthen social and environmental performance among different developing countries?
as regards the system of generalised preferences and, say, their incentive aspect in the social and environmental fields, if the commission has found it useful to go further, that is to say to double the preference it was granting, it is because it shares, i believe, the implicit meaning of your question, namely that the system does not give rise for the moment to many concrete actions.
we are also innovating in the field of drugs, since we are providing for 'drug-specific' monitoring in the countries benefiting from the preferential system, in terms of social and environmental conditions: in terms of social conditions, by reference to the ilo framework conventions; in terms of environmental conditions, in the context of the management of the tropical forest, which happens to coincide roughly with the region in question.
the last point in terms of preferences, or social or environmental performance: do we have any other means?
as you know, we have made a decision in principle not to switch to sanctions and to remain on the side of incentives in taking account of these social and environmental issues.
firstly, the use of social or environmental incentive clauses today.
in the proposals from the women's rights committee, the environment committee and the commission, we have a compromise that i am sure we can work with and will be good for europe and for a citizens' europe.
that is why we in the environment committee wanted to see access for all patients to free comprehensive information drawn up by independent experts, clear, bold health warnings in advertising, and an end to the before-and-after-pictures frequently used in women's magazines.
we in the environment committee believe that all breast implant operations should be recorded in the eu and that, as a result, manufacturers should supply only to surgeons who use such a register.
i am glad to see that he rapporteur has taken on much of the environment committee's opinion and i thank her for that.
- i voted in favour of the joint resolution because i believe that the problems of sustainable development and climate change are so important in the context of the gothenburg summit that the european parliament should be very explicit.
nevertheless, we need a firm political direction on sustainable development and i hope that the encouragement given to the council to play this role will be a catalyst for progress at the international level.
in addition, the decision to review the working method of parliament itself and to hold an annual debate on sustainable development is a significant step forward.
enlargement is crucial if we are to increase trade, employment and prosperity for all, improve environmental standards and reduce transnational pollution, promote effective cooperation in the fight against crime and drug trafficking, strengthen the rights of minorities, and consolidate peace, democracy and stability in europe.
i hope very much that this summit will also make it possible to make significant progress in the field of the environment.
environmental problems are a real priority for citizens throughout the union.
we must make it a priority to limit climate change and to establish ourselves as a clear leader in global cooperation.
we must also work together to achieve clear objectives in terms of using clean energy, using sustainable transport systems, eliminating threats to public health and improving our use of natural resources.
if europe is to be truly a people's europe, we must 'green' our action and seek an innovative strategy for sustainable development.
this demonstrates once again europe's commitment to creating a prosperous environment for business and entrepreneurs across the eu.
if we are serious about promoting a transfer of freight traffic from road to rail, with all of the environmental benefits that this can bring, then this too is a very important consideration.
the rapporteur's amendments would lead to lower earnings for professional drivers, increase road congestion and pollution and raise transport costs.
the convention on civil liability, and the iopc, the international oil-pollution compensation fund.
secondly, no attention was given to the bunker-fuel oil spills or the pollution caused by hazardous and noxious substances.
i have some reservations about amendment no 22 and the implications for oil companies of pollution caused by chemicals or noxious substances.
this has the potential to be a far-reaching and radical piece of european legislation and in consultation with other non-eu states it can go a long way towards resolving the problems of maritime pollution caused by oil and hazardous or noxious substances.
i would like to say that this is not a purely administrative measure, but that the agency will make the european union's commitment to raising the level of maritime safety and the prevention of pollution caused by ships as high as possible more visible to the public.
if we now include in this proposal the problems linked to other types of discharges, pollution by chemical discharges or cleaning of sewers, what we are going to do, in the end, is to paralyse and block the initiative.
nor would it make sense to compensate those responsible for pollution.
that is why i prefer to keep this paragraph which allows the refusal of payments to the parties most involved in the pollution.
mr president, perhaps i could waste a little time because earlier on we were informed that the linkohr report would be taken at 10 p.m. obviously you have been speeding through things at an extraordinary rate and mr linkohr must have been under the misapprehension that he was not required until 10 p.m. i have only just got here myself as a shadow rapporteur.
could we perhaps waste a little time?
we must also pursue opportunities for saving energy, above all in the transport sector.
yes, we must do what we can to promote renewable and alternative energies.
tax rates are for the member states to set and clearly they are quite unwilling to sign up to the long-delayed directive on taxation of energy products.
taxes on energy should be set in the context of an open competitive european market which, in itself, will ensure that fuel costs are not too far out of line from one country to the next.
it is a welcome contribution to the wider debate on security of supply of energy in europe, on which i am working at present.
regarding paragraph 1, calling for effective dialogues with supplier countries, earlier this afternoon i attended a meeting where we heard about the work of the energy charter and the importance of putting that framework in place, in particular for our trading and investment relations with russia as a primary source of oil and gas.
fourthly, paragraph 30 calls on member states to work on the housing and transport sectors as areas where we can dramatically improve our energy efficiency and our conservation of energy.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
he has managed to incorporate most of the legislation that went through the committee on the environment, which is important.
let me add, speaking not just from the viewpoint of the committee on the environment but also as farmer, that what we must not do within the european union – and here i plead with the commissioner, knowing his views on the way we import and export our products – is to end up putting legislation in place which exports the very industries on which we are legislating now in the eu.
the commission has also decided to increase the agri-environmental measures and the three other accompanying measures to 85% and to double the ceilings for agri-environmental measures in so far as these measures concern the sensitive areas of madeira and the azores.
the environmental requirements of regulation 1259/99 continue to apply because they are already covered by the regulation.
obviously some of the things they will air are their differences about the kyoto protocol on the environment and global warming and about the anti-ballistic missile treaty, which needs updating.
afghanistan - b5-0423/2001 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on the continuing human rights violations by the taliban regime in afghanistan; - b5-0424/2001 by mr dupuis and others, on behalf of the tdi group, on the situation in afghanistan; - b5-0427/2001 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the uen group, on the situation in afghanistan; - b5-0429/2001 by mrs evans and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on afghanistan; - b5-0442/2001 by mrs fraisse and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the continuing violations of human rights in afghanistan; - b5-0452/2001 by mrs malmström and mrs thors, on behalf of the eldr group, on the continuing human rights violations by the taliban regime in afghanistan; - b5-0459/2001 by mr mann and mr tannock, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on afghanistan; other countries
mr president, last year mrs maes, mrs carlotti and i were in chad to look at the pipeline project and its impact on the local people and communities and on the environment.
the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0180/2001) by mrs gonzález álvarez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a council decision establishing a community mechanism for the coordination of civil protection interventions in the event of an emergency (com (2000) 593 - c5-0543/2000 - 2000/0248 (cns)).
first of all, i would like to thank parliament, and in particular you, madam president, as rapporteur, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the committee on budgets for the excellent and constructive work they have done on this dossier.
i do not think it is necessary to recall in detail the many natural, technological and environmental disasters of recent years.
the commission proposal of 27 september last year provides for the establishment of a community procedure for emergency response to natural, technological and environmental disasters within and outside the european union.
the aim is to improve and coordinate the response of the member states to such major disasters, including nuclear and environmental disasters, and to provide immediate assistance where the capacity of a single country is insufficient.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution of the seas.
these are amendments nos 1 and 13. the term 'intentional marine pollution' is not, i believe, the correct and appropriate term here.
because intentional pollution of the ocean does not trigger quick action; the need for rapid action depends on the nature of the pollution or the nature of the disaster.
i am confident that the improvements will help save more lives in the future and reduce the damage caused by natural and technological disasters, as well as nuclear and environmental disasters.
indeed, it is partly because of foot-and-mouth disease that i wish to direct my remarks to the question of feeding catering waste or pigswill to pigs.
we ensured that pig farmers only used the most appropriate and up-to-date equipment for boiling catering waste to the correct temperature to destroy all pathogens and we ensured that regular inspections of the farms using such equipment were carried out.
it now seems almost certain that infected catering waste was delivered to a farm in the north-east of england, which for whatever reason, was not properly treated, or perhaps was not treated at all.
mr president, we welcome this report so deftly piloted through parliament by mrs wallis because, in the brave new world of e-commerce, there is going to be the same share of crooks and mountebanks as in the non-digital environment.
i believe we are all agreed that the forthcoming icao general assembly meeting is going to be a key one as far as aviation and environment are concerned.
as mr sterckx has said, i was the rapporteur for parliament's response to the commission's proposals on air transport and the environment last year.
we said, crucially, that if icao did not deliver what we need then the eu will have to seriously consider adopting its own complementary measures to ensure that environmental concerns are more properly integrated into the aviation industry.
on emissions, we need concrete and efficient measures to reduce aircraft emissions, including not only voluntary measures but also emissions-related levies.
but if such a deal cannot be struck, they must come back to parliament so that we can work together to ensure that the eu's own treaty commitments and obligations on integrating the environment into all areas of policy can take proper effect in the field of aviation.
we need to know what progress has been made on noise emissions, gaseous emissions, and indeed on fuel economy.
we need you to go out there and tell the americans very clearly that noise and gaseous emissions from aircraft are a serious problem in europe, a more serious problem than in the usa because we are a smaller place and we have a different infrastructure.
but essentially we need our commissioner to stand up for europe, to stand up for europe and its industry, to stand up for europe and its environment and to stand up for europe and its people.
you have a mandate from every party and group in this house to tackle the problem of the increasing pollution of the skies and the damage to the lives of those who live around airports as a result of the current situation.
we heard many threats and some bluster from the united states last year, when it looked as though hushkitted aircraft and chapter 3 planes would be leaving our skies, perhaps in the year 2002. but europe as a whole suffers problems, particularly those who live around airports who suffer not only noise pollution, but also aircraft emission pollution with consequences for the environment.
we also welcome the establishment of a european sustainable development strategy, albeit a much watered-down version of that originally presented by the commission, which had contained ambitious targets and concrete measures.
sustainable development is about people: their economic and social needs as well as environmental conservation.
the cardiff european summit in 1998 adopted what is referred to as the "cardiff process", integrating environmental considerations into all areas of eu policy as the first step towards sustainable development.
this will send a very clear message, not only to the united states, but also to the rest of the world, about our commitment to this goal and our determination to combat climate change.
above all, it should begin to identify the sort of choices that europe needs to make for the future in the economy, social policy, the environment, transport, and the budget – the sort of europe that the two great political families, the centre left and centre right of politics in europe, actually look for.
it is our strong belief that if the ecb is successful in maintaining price stability, and thereby creating an environment of predictable stability for entrepreneurs, that is the best contribution that the ecb can make to fostering growth of output and employment.
- the debate is closed until 9 p.m.
- the agenda calls for the commission communication - supporting national strategies for safe and sustainable pensions through the open method of coordination.
– today the commission has adopted a communication entitled "supporting national strategies for safe and sustainable pensions through an integrated approach".
the second one concerns financial sustainability, and the third one, the modernisation of the pension systems in response to societal change.
second is financial sustainability.
the common objectives are sustainable pensions, the economic viability of the public and private systems and their modernisation, as i analysed in my initial intervention.
this proposal is an essential element of the whole strategy for the sustainability of our pension systems.
it is eminently sensible to promote renewable energy because it enables us to fulfil our environmental objectives, creates jobs and ensures security of supply.
there is a definition which excludes the use of municipal waste, gives permission for successful support mechanisms to continue and thereby boosts investor confidence.
i know the commissioner would agree on the need for a framework for energy support.
- this resolution is to be commended in many respects, particularly with regard to sustainable development.
i also welcome the fact that the need for the eu to fully prepare for the world summit on sustainable development was expressed.
i do not believe that the development of a common security policy, which seeks to link us closely with nato, has its place in the sustainable development of the eu.
- today i abstained overall on the gothenburg summit resolution and i recommended my conservative colleagues in britain to do the same for the following reason: while we fully supported the references to the favourable reception of the eu enlargement process and the calls for support for cap reform and sustainable development, we expressed a number of reservations on other aspects of the report.
i have always believed that the great benefit of enlargement of eu to the east is to anchor these countries in a climate of peace, prosperity and an institutional respect for democracy and fundamental human rights.
all i need is a source of energy so that i can light my house and cook the next meal".
i want to express parliament’s concern that the kyoto protocol may falter and fail, leaving the world without any coherent network of obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
if japan is prepared to go ahead, then there is the suspicion that the japanese may want to re-write the crucial proposals within the protocol, notably using the year 2000 perhaps rather than 1990 as the base year for calculating greenhouse gas emission reductions.
as the protocol stands, financial contributions from individual parties will be based on each party’s share of co2 emissions.
it is not difficult to see that the united states, with 39% of the total 1990 emissions, would pay the lion’s share.
the finance available for measures to reduce co2 emissions in poorer countries will be greatly reduced without us participation.
every year, every month, far into the night, we deal with directives designed to reduce emissions, but we also know that in most instances when we encounter the council or their representatives it is extremely difficult to get the member states to agree to these proposals in their original, very demanding form.
we now face a situation where, according to the european environment agency, only the united kingdom, germany and luxembourg reduced their greenhouse gas emissions between 1990 and 1998. all the other countries of europe increased them.
i would like to start by paying tribute to commissioner wallström, the commissioner for the environment.
i do not think any of the parliamentarians have any doubt at all about her passionate personal commitment towards trying to secure a positive outcome from the talks in bonn, and i would also like to say a word of thanks to my liberal colleague, prime minister verhofstadt, for the emphasis he placed this morning on saying that the problem of climate change is the greatest single challenge facing the planet.
one thing that this whole issue has brought about – if it was needed – is a great awareness that this is a very small planet upon which we live and that mankind is very capable, through its industrial practices, of changing our environment.
there are great opportunities for, and advantages in, addressing this problem by using technology which is in the process of being developed or has been developed to change our practices and reduce global warming.
i wish to see harmonised environmental taxation at a european level – the objective being not to raise more money but to change practices and priorities and ensure that industry at the same time is able to compete on a level playing field.
we have had the problems – we have experienced the problems with fuel duty in britain and elsewhere whenever politicians try really to apply taxes which benefit the environment in this way.
the odd thing of course, in britain’s case, is that harmonised energy taxation on fuel duties would also probably reduce our taxes.
so, my question to the commission is this: when it comes to practical forms, when it comes to actually dealing with what i hope will be a positive outcome from bonn, how does the council pursue harmonised energy taxation at the same time as dealing with enlargement, which makes the possibility of unanimity so much more difficult to achieve if it we were actually to have harmonised environmental taxation of a sort which is worth having.
although some sceptics still doubt the phenomenon of global warming, nobody can doubt the cooling of relations between the eu and the us over its refusal to recommend ratification of the kyoto protocol.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change has no doubt that there is global warming taking place and that greenhouse gases, in particular co2 emissions, are largely responsible.
the eu is now determined to go it alone, but the biggest culprit, the us, with 4% of the world’s population and 25% of global emissions, still will not co-operate.
at some point, there is a danger of thermal runaway as the polar caps melt, reflect less sunshine and cause a rapid increase in atmospheric warming.
i believe that all nations must subscribe to policies of sustainable economic development and invest in renewable energy sources.
we may also have to look again at carbon sinks.
the potential problems – particularly the problems of water pollution – are cross-boundary problems and therefore worthy of european-wide legislation.
secondly, i would say that classifying mining waste as waste is very difficult when you consider that large amounts of it are simply crushed rock and quite similar to products that you would get from any quarry in the union.
therefore i would say that we have to look more particularly at processed waste from mines which often contains high levels of toxic chemicals.
research has revealed a worrying deterioration in the environmental, socio-economic and cultural resources of our coastal zones.
the environmental problems include habitat destruction, water contamination, coastal erosion and resource depletion and these are all very serious.
these environmental problems have a knock-on effect beyond coastal regions to inland regions.
– it is interesting how, in this house we move seamlessly from global economic policy and world summits to the technical regulations of exhaust and sound level emissions from recreational craft in europe: such is the broad sweep of politics dealt with in this place.
to put this directive into perspective, recreational craft in the eu are responsible for less than half of 1% of all exhaust emissions in the union and if it is the case that this regulation turns out to have severe impacts on small boat owners, driving them unnecessarily off the waterways, then sadly this will merely increase disenchantment with europe among many of our citizens.
if you do that, obviously improving the environment in the process, then you are subject to the full force of these regulations and would possibly be faced with extremely expensive compliance costs for your craft.
the socialists have tabled a proposal by mr lange which was passed by the environment committee (no 30) seeking to impose an additional second table of stricter limits for boats on drinking water lakes.
this proposal could produce modest environmental benefits, but we must make sure that those modest environmental benefits do not come about at the expense at the loss of hundreds of jobs in many small enterprises across europe and the pricing of many european citizens off the waterways which they have enjoyed for many hundreds of years.
the situation is no longer sustainable.
industrial fishing is completely incompatible with the development of a sustainable fishery.
the increasing awareness of the possibility of infringement of environmental law is another instance.
you provided an immense service to the environment and strengthened european influence.
the priorities are to have it ratified, to get our own member states to implement effective action plans, and not only to launch emissions trading but to prove that it can work, which is the hardest task of all.
and if we can make it work, then i hope that american business will be attracted and the whole political climate across the globe will change.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, of which i was the draftsman, was unanimously carried and we are delighted to see that many of our recommendations have been endorsed by the two rapporteurs.
a level of safety throughout the european union and also greater environmental protection.
some environmental protection groups harass those involved in oil exploration or exploitation.
computer terrorism and environmental terrorism are worrying features of today’s world.
it allows the establishment of authorisation procedures, aviation safety and environmental protection regulations and safety regulations relating to uniform products, persons and institutions.
i too did not support the jürgen schröder report, specifically because paragraphs 43 and 44 call into question the completion of the temelin nuclear power plant and, in fact, contradict the earlier paragraph 42 which welcomes the melk accord between the czech republic, the austrian government and the european commission in december 2000. the content of that accord and, in particular, the investigations into the environmental impact assessment that was agreed, have substantially been carried out.
paragraph 20 of the report calls for the creation of a sustainable energy strategy.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
that is why i am here, having shadowed it in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the report which has been a difficult one in terms of reaching a balance between the interests of what is clearly the very important – and very immediate – issue of fire safety and the more difficult, but more long-term problem of future harm to public health and the environment.
they are bioaccumulative in animals and in the general environment and they have even been found, as has been said already, in human breast milk.
these substances which have a potential for harm to the environment must be strictly controlled.
the importance of environmental protection, the need to preserve attractive natural areas, the production of quality products and the urgency of preserving cultural heritage are all highlighted.
this will promote sustainable development that takes into account both the socioeconomic problems and the environmental challenges facing each of these areas.
in this context, i would like to point out that on 31 january this year the commission adopted the second report on economic and social cohesion, which raises and invites discussion of the question of setting priorities for the balanced and sustainable development of the territories of the enlarged union and of meeting the increased need for cohesion.
at the moment, we are facing a number of great challenges and any discussion on the implementation of cohesion fund has to include other areas under the umbrella of sustainable development, such as employment and agriculture.
however the framework directive on health and safety at work does not clarify whether employers are responsible for the mental, psycho-social or social working environment, so i believe steps should be taken to revise the directive to include this definition.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has just completed its work and there is now a definition of violence at work in general.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - a5-0293/2001 by mrs oomen-ruijten, on behalf of parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from large combustion plants; - a5-0292/2001 by mrs riitta myller, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive setting national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants.
it is going, in fact, to be extremely hard with regard to some of the requirements, but it strikes a satisfactory balance between the protection of the environment on the one hand and society's need for a reliable and secure source of power at an affordable price, which is something we cannot ignore.
there is going to be a substantial reduction in sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions which are the main causes of acid rain and ground-level ozone with a consequent improvement in the environmental conditions for human health.
one possible side effect may be that as the general efficiency of power plant operation improves, we will see an overall reduction in carbon dioxide in comparison to the energy generated.
i have particularly followed the debate on the limitation of emissions of large combustion plants.
these plants are one of the biggest emitters of air pollutants in europe after transport emissions and therefore it is very important we have stringent legislation to control this.
work to combat pollution can go hand-in-hand with protecting jobs and sustaining communities.
– mr president, honourable members, i am very pleased that these two important additions to community legislation on air pollution are reaching the stage of final adoption.
the proposals on national emission ceilings (necs) and large combustion plants (lcps) represent a major advance in community legislation on air pollution.
as you know, the nec proposal would help to establish an ongoing programme for tackling transboundary air pollution by requiring members states to limit the emissions which cause most damage, not only to themselves but, as mrs hulthén said, to their neighbours.
the first stage sets legally binding emissions ceilings which member states will have to meet by 2010. it provides for a series of periodic reviews – in 2004, 2008 and 2012 – in order to reduce emissions ceilings more in the future: this review system has been strengthened a great deal in response to parliament's concerns.
the first reviews will try to make up the shortfall by 2010 taking into account total emissions for the community as a whole as set out in the commission original proposal.
all reviews will look at how we can achieve our long-term goals of staying below critical environmental levels after 2010. the year 2020 will then be taken as a benchmark.
at the same time, with the large combustion plant proposal, new and tougher emissions standards will apply in the power generation sector, in particular for older power plants which are a major cause of acidification and ozone pollution.
the commission's analysis of the common position on large combustion plants shows that both sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from this sector will fall substantially as a result of this legislation.
the compromise on the lcp proposal will provide medium-term flexibility to take account of differing circumstances in the member states as well as substantial environmental benefits in the long term in an enlarged community.
in almost every case in the committee on the environment, we deal with issues which should rightly be dealt with at european union level, because they concern matters which affect more than one member state – transboundary issues.
what is fascinating about this debate, as it was in committee and here now, is that for the best possible reasons – the improvement of health and enhancing the environment – measures have been suggested to us which represent a sort of creeping centralisation which, at the end of the day, makes the european union seem bossy and interfering to far too many of our constituents.
we should take this opportunity, and indeed every opportunity, to put into practice our belief that wherever possible we should be applying strictly the principles of subsidiarity and making sure that when we take measures on behalf of the environment at european union level it is because they will genuinely make a difference to individuals and cannot be done by individual member states.
why should not a particular community seek to set up an airport, for instance as a cargo hub, that can experience noise pollution in excess of what a large city should produce?
this will be done by drawing up harmonised noise maps to assess the noise exposure situation across the community; informing the public about noise exposure and its effects; requiring authorities in member states to develop action plans to achieve the required noise levels; and providing the european institutions with information on environmental noise, in order to assess the situation and develop further action.
with regard to this last topic, i understand the concerns expressed by some members who have tabled amendments making the case for proposals for daughter directives as of now to set new limit values for sources and environmental noise.
moving on to the detail of the 36 amendments adopted by parliament's environment committee, we are able to accept 28 of them, in full, in principle and/or in part.
we can accept amendment no 1, which alters the title, to make the proposal a community framework for the assessment and management of environmental noise.
in the case of this report, however, the situation is reversed, because in the main the technology is available to clean up the small engines which, as mr lange says, can produce more pollution in one hour than a car travelling 150 km.
the cumulative effect contributes significantly to air pollution.
so, in contrast to the last debate where i argued strongly that we should emphasise the principle of subsidiarity, this is a matter which is clearly trans-boundary and for both environmental and single market reasons should be dealt with by this parliament.
on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy we all get used to industry representatives coming up to us and saying ‘don't do that, the time-scale is too short, the technology is not available’.
is it not a good thing for manufacturers to be competing on the basis of setting the highest possible environmental standards?
i look forward to hearing the sound of my neighbour mowing her grass – and indeed my grass too, i hope – knowing that the air will be free from pollution and that the birds will not cough and splutter in the trees around my home.
mr president, i wish to express my concern about the environment committee's amendment, listed as no 2, which seeks to remove what seemed to be the rather sensible averaging and banking option.
now i note that the committee believes itself to be tackling pollution from leisure machinery which, it claims, accounts for a considerable proportion of the output of ozone precursors, especially on saturday afternoons in the summer months.
the net effect of this, according to the practitioners, would be an adverse effect on the environment, and so i urge the house to reject the amendment.
but sometimes it can produce ridiculous results, for example when environmental laws are too detailed to allow sensible local discretion in adapting common principles to local situations.
a one-size-fits-all approach to water law can have absurd results, for example in respect of the scotch malt whisky industry, despite its established environmental friendliness over 200 years.
the first is sustainable immigration, which is expected to remain in the host societies for a long time, while the second, increasingly important, is cyclical migration, which requires - and should be encouraged - a stronger link with the region of origin.
we could support them in another report dealing with those escaping from hunger or environmental disasters.
all countries can benefit from the energy and enterprise of people who are prepared to cross whole continents in search of a better future.
if we want to manage a sustainable policy of legal immigration and, at the same time, protect the rights of those most in need of sanctuary, we must take back control of our asylum laws from the judges.
the lithuanian parliament adopted a national energy strategy in 1999. in this context, it decided that unit 1 of the ignalina nuclear power plant will be decommissioned before 2005 and that the final decision on the date of decommissioning of unit 2 will be taken in the context of the review of the national energy strategy in 2004. the commission had stated at the time that it understood that the closure of block 2 had to be completed by 2009. this follows from the logic of the matter: if 2005 is the latest date for the decommissioning of unit 1, then it follows from the expected lifetime of the two power plant units that 2009 should be the latest date for the decommissioning of unit 2. as regards block 1, the commission has taken note that lithuania has initiated extensive preparations for the decommissioning and decommissioning.
i want to take the opportunity to say to the house tonight that i, on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, have made a proposal to other committees and to the commission on ways in which parliament can exercise its political role in scrutinising and putting forward ideas for motor vehicle regulation.
– madam president, i am very pleased to present my recommendation for second reading on the energy star agreement.
we shall have an earlier review than was expected; we shall have an update on new technological advances in this area of energy efficiency; we shall have a report to parliament.
furthermore, the united states' authorities are absolutely clear that parliament is involved in discussions on the energy star programme from the commission's point of view.
this clearly is not the only measure which is to be taken in the area of energy efficiency.
computer equipment is sold worldwide and the educative, awareness-raising aspects of seeing the energy star logo on computers is worthwhile.
we know that one of the tasks in increasing energy efficiency is to improve public awareness.
everyone in this chamber knows that energy efficiency is the most important component of energy policy.
it is the fifth fuel – coal, gas, renewables, nuclear – the fifth fuel, with a 30% potential, is energy efficiency.
we are not stupid, we are intelligent and that is why intelligent energy – a phrase with which i hope everyone is becoming familiar – and certainly mr wijkman, mr turmes, mrs van der laan and i are doing our best to make it a very familiar phrase – and energy-intelligent europe depends on energy efficiency.
we look to the commissioner to bring in a package of measures well beyond energy star.
we have been very cooperative on the energy star programme.
it is very important that we should assist people making choices about purchasing equipment in knowing what the energy efficiency is.
in some cases, these measures should be renewable and temporary.
for the 11 countries whose budgets are in a sustainable position – those which, in other words, can face a normal recession with a fall in tax revenue and continue to respect the 3% limit on budget deficits – there is no need to raise taxes or cut public spending and the automatic stabilisers can and should be allowed to play.
we need not only business competition, but also a link with economic and social criteria to achieve the highest levels of social security, sustainability and equity.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has taken heed of the imbalance in the european audio-visual market place, and i hope the commissioner will be able speak on this.
robust and determined early regulatory action will be needed to create the open environment we all seek, and one which is in the real interests of all citizens and economies of europe.
we consider that public investments can have a very positive value and can help to shift the direction of our economy, as we recognise our ecological responsibilities.
mr agag longo also urges further progress on liberalisation in areas such as energy, transport and the postal services.
this report, with the support of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and my colleague, mr beysen, and with mrs berger's assistance also, now strikes the right balance by giving the commission a clear indication of the support of our committee and others for this important initiative.
we are working towards a global system of tiered pricing that will supply markets on a sustainable basis.
this said, it has to be acknowledged that the improvement in the political climate in the last year is clearly only the beginning of a process which now should be further deepened.
in that context we look, for example, to the united kingdom government to take all necessary short-term protective measures as well as to face up to the necessary longer-term decisions with regard to the disposal of radioactive waste.
i told her so, and the irish government so when i was the northern ireland minister responsible for energy and i reiterate that view now.
we have found in the issues raised with us that it is not just environmental ngos, or people living in an area that is directly affected.
sometimes we find complaints come to our committee effectively to have those environmental impact assessments assessed, because those organisations lack the resources to fully participate within the planning process and it is vital that we look at that, certainly at member state level.
at a time when many citizens from all walks of life feel disenfranchised and marginalized, the call for public participation in the development of certain environmental plans and programmes is certainly necessary.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
an environmentally-friendly european energy policy is at the top of most people's agendas and it is important that europe leads the way in our kyoto obligations.
therefore, to reduce programmes that promote sustainable energy consumption and impact on climate protection is extremely short-sighted.
the third area in which the committee on industry will be retabling amendments is the decommissioning of weapons of mass destruction, and waste management.
as the council is consistently pointing out waste, here is an offer it cannot refuse.
, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– mr president, we on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy this year can generally welcome the progress that has been made so far in formulating the budget for next year.
nevertheless, i am pleased to see that the committee on budgets has supported the view of committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy in restoring some of the budget lines which we are particularly concerned with, at least to the level of the pdb.
i can fully understand why money must go into the reserve and i can fully understand why there is increasing concern about the way the agencies operate, but we need to give them the appropriate resources to do their job and that particularly applies in the case of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
there are times when it is so frustrating trying to get the message through that we waste our time having conciliation meetings.
i should also like to inform you that the subject of preparing the fourth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation was also raised at the social affairs council, the agriculture council and, if i am not mistaken, also at the environment council, in order to coordinate positions or at least to be aware of the different sensitivities.
but you also want, as we do, a negotiating programme which deals with the definition of new rules, the clarification of existing rules and the articulation of the rules of the world trade organisation and those of other international bodies in the fields of social, environmental, health or food security.
these rules can ensure greater market efficiency, better social development and adequate environmental protection.
in our view, the key to sustainable development for the whole planet lies in the combination of open markets and the implementation of multilateral rules.
the process of opening up, regulating trade, integrating developing countries and ensuring the sustainability of environmental and social policy is as necessary today as it was in the past.
other governance bodies in the areas of environment, social development, development finance and support for sound internal policies will also need to be strengthened.
the first concerns trade and the environment, areas where we are particularly concerned by the lack of ambition in the proposals.
the second difficulty, after the environment, is agriculture, which remains a very sensitive subject.
despite these concerns, most wto members now seem to me increasingly willing to show the flexibility and openness needed to launch a substantially ambitious negotiation in doha, and i am beginning to think that we can get our four priorities back: trade liberalization, strengthening the rules, including development at the heart of the multilateral agenda and integrating the sustainable development goals into the wto.
firstly, trade and the environment: for us issues such as the interaction between trade and multilateral environmental agreements, eco-labelling, the incorporation of the precautionary principle are not add-ons or luxuries, they are absolutely fundamental to the future credibility of the wto and, arguably, of globalisation as a political process itself.
the lessons of the failed seattle ministerial were that the wto must become a fully democratic and transparent organisation which genuinely supports sustainable development and which effectively responds to the needs of developing countries.
we agree very much that internationalism is important, but the current international trade rules favour narrow business interests and not the poor and the environment.
i am going to concentrate on two frankly difficult areas – trips and the environmental aspects of trade which you have already mentioned.
secondly, environmental standards.
multilateral environment agreements cannot be discarded in the name of free trade and the precautionary principle must be explicitly included in wto rules.
our role is, therefore, to flank the wto with other supporting agreements in other fields, notably the environmental field.
finally, now is not the time to eject 80 000 kurds, breach environmental standards and human rights, in order to construct the ilisu dam.
both foreign ministers have done much to create a favourable climate for further progress in the region.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- the following two reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0366/2001 by mr gahrton, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision establishing the community position within the ministerial conference set up by the agreement establishing the world trade organisation, concerning the accession of the people's republic of china to the world trade organisation (com (2001) 517 - c5-0487/2001 - 2001/0218 (cns)); - a5-0367/2001 by mr gahrton, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision establishing the position to be taken by the community within the ministerial conference set up by the agreement establishing the world trade organisation on the accession of the separate customs territory of chinese taipei (taiwan, penghu, kinmen and matsu) to the world trade organisation (com (2001) 518 - c5-0488/2001 - 2001/0216 (cns)).
i would like to thank your assembly, in particular the committee on industry, commerce, research and energy and the rapporteur, mr gahrton, for the priority you have given to this matter.
we all know, and i often say in front of you, that trade liberalisation is a good thing, as long as it is accompanied by what translates growth into sustainable development, that is to say, internal social and environmental policies, without which the beneficial effects of trade liberalisation are not available.
these would be based on objective criteria which could cover, inter alia, environmental considerations, tagging and traceability.
the committee recognises that this is an interim stage and looks forward to reports from the commission on environmental impact, traceability and pasturing techniques.
sheep production is important especially in hill areas, not only because of the environment there and the role it plays in keeping the social fabric of society together, but because it has proven through the centuries to be one of the most important aspects of production in the agricultural sector.
although we are only dealing with an extension of magp iv for one year, the commission proposals seek to reduce over-fishing and achieve the 40% reduction in effort across the eu fleet which they have been consistently pointing out is absolutely essential, if we are to have any hope of a sustainable industry in the future.
in order to secure what we all want, sustainable fisheries, then surely fishing effort must be made to correspond to available resources.
this evening the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs will adopt a text, drafted in cooperation with the committee on budgetary control and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, which we believe is a strong basis for a parliament resolution on this matter.
given the current climate of suspicion, with another crash in new york of an airliner this evening, what additional security measures will be taken to protect us?
if we adopt this proposal and pass this amendment, we will be walking away from the opportunity to create the right environment so that people can really benefit from the immense power of the new communications world.
i will be supporting the 8-hour or 500-kilometre limit, and strongly support the view that the climate conditions of each member state should also be taken into consideration.
i would like to hear the commission guarantee that a legal base will be found for the sustainable funding of the global health fund after 2000 and submitted as quickly as possible.
for example, the issues already mentioned relating to environment and social policy are not in themselves relevant to the contract tendering process but should be dealt with under separate legislation.
as another speaker said, we need appropriate solutions for each particular environment.
in fact the two member states that have reported deaths associated with consumption of energy drinks have stated that there is no evidence of the association and they have instigated their own investigations into the effect of such products on health.
may i ask the commissioner specifically about how these energy drinks are marketed in combination with alcoholic products.
could the commissioner tell me whether the standing committee on foodstuffs discussed the combination of energy drinks with alcoholic products and, if so, what research did it propose and what information did it think was needed?
– denmark notified the commission in march 2001 of a draft regulation intended to prohibit the import, sale and use of three greenhouse gases – hfc, pfc and sf6 – and products containing them as from 2006, except in the case of certain products and applications for which a different timetable was laid down.
the text is aimed at combating greenhouse warming and at contributing towards a 21% reduction of six industrial gases to which denmark committed itself at the environment council in june 1998. the european union, for its part, undertook under the kyoto protocol to reduce by 8% the emissions of the six industrial gases in question produced by all its member states.
the commission notes that there are technical measures for monitoring these emissions and that those measures create fewer distortions of intra-community trade than a total prohibition.
it is an excellent analysis of our energy supply situation in europe.
firstly, the european union will become increasingly dependent on external energy sources, reaching 70% by 2003. secondly, the eu has very limited scope to influence energy supply conditions so that it is on the demand side that the eu can intervene, mostly through promoting energy saving in buildings and in the transport sector.
thirdly, in present circumstances the eu is not in a position to respond to the challenge of climate change and to meet its commitments, notably under the kyoto protocol.
for commonsense reasons of security of supply and protection of the environment, urgent steps should be taken to address this disproportionate dependence.
in four areas the eu and member states can be masters of their own destiny and make a real difference, both to security of supply and to protection of the environment.
renewable energy sources are by definition indigenous supplies and we are correct to seek to increase their share of final consumption and electricity generation.
even if the ambitious targets for res are met, they cannot be expected to replace any of the other energy sources completely or become the sole supplier of all our energy needs.
nuclear energy is not popular in some quarters, but it supplies more electricity in europe than any other energy source.
it provides large volume, base load power and produces hardly any greenhouse gas emissions.
coal is a source of energy in decline in europe, because of cost and environmental concerns.
the fourth area is research work for future technologies and energy systems.
what is needed is realism on the nuclear issue, determined effort on clean coal technology, much encouragement of res and coordinated demand management measures, as well as a sustained effort to inform public opinion about the necessity to stop wasting energy.
mr president, here we are, all worried about our dependence on imported fuels and energy, worried about the future of our economy and our jobs, and yet we have mr fitzsimons and mr kronberger bemoaning and belittling one of the main potential sources for meeting that problem, the nuclear energy solution.
not only does it meet our energy and economic requirements, but it also meets our environmental requirements under kyoto.
i would say – and mr chichester's excellent report bears this out – that unless we diversify our sources of supply of energy, especially by promoting indigenous supplies of energy, we will be in trouble with our economy and our jobs in the future.
nuclear energy must play a significant part in both those ambitions: diversification and indigenous supplies.
for too long we have seen a gradual increase in allergenic reactions and even worse human health effects and at the same time a series of undesirable effects on the general environment.
there is no doubt that we will have to make a very wide-ranging examination of the chemicals in use today and those that we might want to introduce into our environment in the future.
however, one would hope that, by taking a serious step forward tonight and starting to formulate a new structure for chemicals policy, we will arrive at a policy which is truly sustainable in the long term; which brings genuine and positive benefits to society as a whole; ends any negative impacts upon human health in the environment and stands as a shining example to other parts of the world as to how they should progress in future.
so tonight we are taking a step not just towards a cleaner and better european environment and a stronger and more prosperous chemical industry in europe but also towards a healthier and better future for the whole world.
mr president, i hope the commissioner has caught up on her sleep after another succesful climate change conference.
they are essential to our way of life but there is very little public information about them and the real fear is that some of them may be causing long-term damage to the environment and human health.
i recognise that in environmental matters we often hear industry crying wolf, but even so we must ensure that new requirements placed upon the companies are realistic and practical and that they enhance rather than damage a very important business.
in making recommendations, i support mrs schörling in asking the commission to strengthen its environmental commitments, rather than relax them.
the commissioner has made very clear in the past her personal opposition to the use of eu structural funds to support projects which are damaging to the environment.
i expect the commission to make it absolutely clear that environmental impact studies must be independent and must consider the entire scheme, not just individual proposals.
this spanish scheme is set to become a test case of whether the commission's commitments toward environmental sustainability are matched by a determination to stand up to pressure from vested interests and the governments of member states.
if we are to get eu environmental law that really makes a difference, we must, within much broader targets, allow member states to adopt solutions best suited to their respective local environments and economies.
(the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
- the following two reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0376/2001 by mr caudron, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the multiannual framework programme 2002-2006 of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities to help achieve the european research area (com (2001) 94 - c5-0087/2001 - 2001/0053 (cod)); - a5-0355/2001 by mr caudron, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the multiannual framework programme 2002-2006 of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for research and teaching activities to help achieve the european research area (com (2001) 94 - c5-0171/2001 - 2001/0054 (cns))
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mr caudron, and commissioner busquin, who have both helped us to work efficiently, as have the shadow rapporteurs.
they include, of course, health, other than strictly post-genomic research, non-nuclear energy and land and water transport.
procedure without debate - recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 70/220/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to measures to be taken against air pollution by emissions from motor vehicles (11253/1/2001 - c5-0474/2001 - 2000/0211 (cod)) (the president declared the common position approved)
- we want to please everybody.
in conclusion, i would say that the allocation of financial resources to research must always take account of the environmental aspect.
the report proposes to finance research into renewable energy sources in a balanced and environmentally friendly way.
trying to put the principles of environmental sustainability into practice is no easy task.
it seems to me more essential than ever to implement economic and social structural reforms in order to enable the sector to overcome the current crisis, to support it with social measures and to lay the foundations for a sustainable development of the sector in the long term.
as you know, the council has invested a great deal of time and energy, particularly through a joint council-commission expert group, to enable a political agreement by the member states to be reached at the council meeting on 7 december.
all areas of aviation must be involved in this movement, whether it is safety, security, noise control or environmental protection more generally.
it also seems imperative to deepen the analysis of the social and environmental impact of the liberalisation of air transport in order to promote greater harmonisation in this area.
finally, in the long term, the challenge for us is also to ensure that civil aviation becomes a sustainable activity.
safety and security, economic stability and respect for the environment are the essential components of the sustainable development of this sector, which brings me to my last point: the need to improve the environmental dimension of the sector.
we must take advantage of what the european union has achieved - which, believe me, was not guaranteed in advance - namely the taking into account of local, national and regional differences in the definition of these public policies, in order to adopt european regulations which effectively guarantee a high quality of environmental protection.
we must make these policy advances a reality, in particular by taking adequate noise measures quickly, but also by adopting measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the framework of the commitment we made in kyoto and confirmed in bonn and marrakesh.
inaction is not an option, nor is a lecture on environmental issues, because at the rate we are going we will not have an aviation industry to worry about.
the report is based on the premise that a large number of chemical compounds pose a threat to public health and the environment and ignores the positive effects on society, health and the environment of many man-made chemicals.
a report by the uk's institute of environmental health estimated that 12.8 million animals would be needed to test 30,000 chemical compounds.
in relation to afghanistan it is to be hoped that a legitimate government with democratic aspirations will be established there very soon, anxious to engage positively in the real world and begin the development of a sustainable economy and a better life for all its people.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the environment committee is very unhappy with the idea of voluntary agreements, as a way of proceeding.
we see a great need for the commission to devote more energy to the issue of implementation and we see no real need to establish criteria to focus its work in investigating possible breaches of the law.
madam president, the argument that the anti-terrorism measures and the european arrest warrant do not skimp on fundamental rights, is only sustainable if the protection system of the european convention on human rights for defendants is adhered to in practice.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
the hotter burn of modern vehicle engines delivers higher efficiency and thereby cuts co2 emissions.
a majority vote in the committee demanded a rather faster implementation than the commission proposed even if some of us were concerned at the commission's assertion that this will, in fact, produce a net increase in co2 emissions.
so please tell us, commissioner, if you stand by your warning or whether you can accept the quicker implementation requested by both the environment and the industry committees.
we would also suggest that the commission instigate research into the implications of ultra-fine particle emissions from gasoline diesel injection engines.
indeed, the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy would suggest that the commission hoists a spinnaker and speeds up its implementation.
mr president, if europe is to be the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world, as proudly stated at the lisbon council, then we must provide the conditions and the environment which will encourage our scientists to test the frontiers of knowledge.
the primary reason for this directive is not to control atmospheric pollution itself as we inhale it but to actually reduce the effect that sulphur dioxide has on advanced catalytic systems.
it would result in more carbon dioxide being produced in the refineries and also a 10% increase in the price of fuel for farmers.
i refer to mrs magda aelvoet, minister for consumer protection, public health and the environment in the federal parliament of belgium.
this reflects the conclusions of the agriculture council of 27 september 1999, which recognised the importance of further liberalisation of agricultural trade as a contribution to sustainable economic growth.
as you know, the european union has also put forward a number of proposals on the main non-trade-related issues, the environment, rural development, food safety, consumer concerns, labelling and animal welfare.
the second theme or trend is that the talks extended well beyond traditional market access preoccupations and moved towards the development of new rules, competition, investment and, above all, the environment.
we found it particularly bizarre that green members of this house and green campaigners rejected talks on the environment within the wto, in the name of the developing countries.
to us, there is no trade-off between sustainable multilateral environmental disciplines and multilateral attempts at poverty alleviation.
the negotiations with the belgian presidency at the second conciliation were 100% better than the first conciliation, which was a waste of time, as i made known last time.
we are very interested to see how this year's situation develops over the course of 2002.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
we have had a tough budgetary procedure especially in relation to the priorities of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
these programmes are not just crucial to achieving a dynamic knowledge – based europe but, in the light of the tough current economic climate that the european businesses and organisations are facing, our key to achieving our aims of creating new jobs and supporting businesses.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
in those sectors that are the concern of the environment committee i particularly welcome the establishment of frameworks and long-term funding regimes which have certainly stabilised our work in the area of consumers.
i also welcome the decision that was going to be taken, but has not, not to withdraw money from the life programme for the environmental projects that are so important.
we can only develop our work in guaranteeing the future rights of the consumer, the health of the public and the safe, clean environment if we put our money where our mouth is and spend the cash that is needed.
it had the support of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the committee on agriculture and rural development.
mr president, commissioner, i want to speak on an issue which parliament identified before qatar as vital, indeed we called it 'make or break' as did the commissioner – that is the link between environment and trade.
for the first time, and against fierce and widespread opposition, we will have negotiations on some key environmental issues.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy would like eur 300 million.
– madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mrs paulsen, and the committee on environment, public health and consumer policy for their recommendation for second reading on the council common position for adopting a european parliament and council directive on desirable substances in animal feed.
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1, 2 and 3 as adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the approach proposed by the rapporteur is an alternative, but it should be further improved to be effective in terms of environmental protection.
however, the commission is ready to contribute with the other institutions to the formulation of an agreement which is technically ambitious and which benefits the environment.
the common position already contains a package of measures to improve the control of in-use emissions, but the report still contains a number of amendments which specify more precisely the deadlines and details of the provisions.
the commission does not accept the sustainability requirements in amendments nos 5, 13 and 20. these provisions could lead to a constantly changing provision in the period 2003-2006. the commission supports the inclusion of co2 emissions and fuel consumption measurement in the type-approval system as a necessary condition for the future reduction of co2 emissions and improvement of fuel economy.
its business and investment climate has been improved greatly through continuous economic reform.
the eu has been taking part in the korean peninsula energy development organisation (kedo) and has offered a range of humanitarian and economic assistance to north korea.
i do not believe that we will achieve that simply by adopting these reports tomorrow but we will have gone a long way to securing our goal to protect lives at sea and to protect the marine environment.
this report could have a positive impact on a number of issues: it could make life easier for people working on board ships and, moreover, it is in line with the eu's attempts to take a pioneering role in environmental protection.
for all the fine words in the commission document, this agreement is creating a human and environmental disaster.
however, the commission considers that the drc’s stability and sustainable development will not be ensured until all parties to the dialogue have clearly committed themselves to the establishment of and participation in one political system.
because if this succeeds, then, i think, in a sustainable way for the future, all future reforms in the coming decades will not be done as before, but will be done with this more transparent and more open method.