the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation is a very good one.
everyone knows that cultural and natural heritage is threatened with complete disappearance by activities that degrade or destroy the urban and topographical environment that houses invaluable elements of such heritage.
excessive and unregulated land use, the development of buildings in the historic centres of towns and cities, in green spaces and open areas, the lack of effective measures to protect forests and the natural environment are the consequences of an increasingly violent attack on the natural and cultural landscape.
a typical example is the tvx gold plant in olympiada, chalcidice, near stagira, aristotle's hometown, which has destroyed the forest and endangered the monuments; and as if that wasn't enough, the people of the region were condemned for daring to defend their historic and natural environment.
the parliament's report is particularly instructive on the way the above funds are managed and demonstrates the unbridled and opaque waste of eu taxpayers' money which serves, despite the 'humanitarian' and 'pacifist' proclamations, to consolidate the penetration of the eu's major interests in the nato protectorate of bosnia.
the terms 'mismanagement', 'delay', 'delayed payment', 'millions of ecus allocated to 'non-subsidisable' equipment', 'waste and irregularities' appear repeatedly in the staes report and its assessments.
i would remind you that in one area of my country, the region of fethiotis, where everyone is against the linking of the gulf of malia, which the ministry of the environment and public works has itself included in natura 2000 sites, there are complaints in your office that the greek government wants this linking to be made, which will have enormous environmental consequences, while there are alternatives.
these factors are, firstly, the cap, especially as it was shaped after 1992 and shaped by agenda 2000, does not guarantee a sustainable income to most of the small and medium-sized rural households in the community, it does not guarantee a survival income to the heads of households, so it will be very difficult to invest, even small amounts, even with many subsidies, which are not many, of course, in a sector such as agriculture, which is not only not profitable, but does not guarantee even a basic income.
the commission also regrets the environmental and economic damage caused by fires.
it is important, with the use of new technologies such as the internet, to create a new, technically advanced, human-sized cultural environment for their work.
the communist party of greece has repeatedly called for not only a ban on the use of depleted uranium but for the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces from the balkans and for the cost of care and compensation for the victims and the clean-up of the environment to be charged to nato and the eu.
it is equally important and urgent to establish a large-scale policy of assistance, prevention and rehabilitation in all the areas of yugoslavia affected by the use of these munitions, with the aim of protecting public health and the environment, decontaminating soil and water, and ensuring a normal course of development for the country and the region as a whole.
it is certain that a critical mass of women in decision-making centres would put on the political agenda, as priority issues, issues related to quality of life, such as environmental protection, social policy and welfare, health care, education, the fight against drug abuse and trafficking, the resolution of disputes by peaceful means.
the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european union's forestry strategy, which is based on the principles of sustainable development and sustainable development.
we have common priorities, real community priorities, and it is in our common interest to develop a framework for cohesion policy in a sustainable and balanced way.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we are not just talking about the problem of pollution of the seas, which we mentioned, for example, in the question of double-hulled oil tankers; we are talking about something that goes beyond that, which is the safety of crews on community ships and on ships that arrive on our shores.
- mr president, the issues of safety in maritime transport and the protection of the marine environment from pollution caused by ships are of an unpleasant timing.
the proposal for a regulation is designed to replace all the existing committees dealing with shipping safety and the prevention of pollution from ships by a single committee, the maritime safety committee.
the european commission's proposal is correct and is an attempt to rationalise and to better monitor community and international law on safety at sea and pollution prevention.
- mr president, the setting up of the maritime safety committee under the pretext of seeking to improve the application of legislation governing the safety of ships, as well as the protection of the environment and the living and working conditions on board ships, reinforces the reactionary nature of the european union's policy in the maritime sector.
the european union, acting as a sentry for the interests of big european capital, is intervening in the change of international law that has been shaped since the war and, by becoming a global sentry, is sacrificing security, human life itself and the protection of the environment, on the altar of the increase in the profits of the monopolies.
we are radically opposed not only to the basic direction of these choices but also to the piecemeal adoption of measures which are not effective but are intended to assuage the intense concerns and reactions of public opinion, the trade union movement and environmental organizations following the spate of deadly and highly damaging marine accidents.
we believe that a policy aimed at protecting the safety of ships, passengers, crew and the environment must first of all effectively combat shipboard pollution, implement strict measures against the violation of legislation which is grossly violated in a cumulative manner and, above all, with impunity within the imo and international conventions.
the rapporteur has done a very good job, and then our committee, and they propose to the house a number of amendments in the spirit of the original idea of the european commission, emphasizing the inclusion of the prevention of marine pollution from ships and the living conditions on board, which are of course closely linked to safety at sea.
in general, we can say that with its proposal the commission is continuing its efforts to make the policy of maritime safety and prevention of pollution more rational.
in response to the particular questions of the honourable member, the member states of the union have not informed the commission of their actions taken following receipt of the regional environmental centre report.
as the honourable member will know, it is a regrettable fact that the people of the region face a variety of threats to health from several sources and some of those threats are obviously environmental in origin.
in addition, to break up the generality of his answer: can the interventions in dealing with the very serious environmental consequences for the people of the region be quantified and more specifically referred to in terms of their nature?
– mr president, the commission's attention was given to the use of depleted uranium in armour-piercing shells as long ago as 1993. at that time, the commission's reply to parliament related to the specific issue of the test-firing of shells in coastal waters, and it offered the view that such action would not have a significant impact on the environment.
the commission continues to hold that view on the basis of the evidence that, in the marine environment, the only exposure pathway is the slow dissolution of uranium.
however, the commission draws attention to the fact that the firing of uranium penetrators at land-based targets has implications which are different from those of firing ammunition in the marine environment, because use on land can result in the dispersion of uranium oxides which may subsequently be inhaled, whilst that is clearly not the case in the marine environment.
on the basis of that scientific reality the feeling of the commission and all other scientifically advised persons and bodies is that the evidence of uranium deposit in sea-water is such that the firing of shells for target purposes in the marine environment does not make any significant addition to uranium concentrations.
in addition, i did draw attention in my first answer to the strong distinction that has to be made between possible consequences of the use of depleted uranium material and munitions in a land environment where the oxides can be inhaled, and in a maritime environment where the consequences of the use of depleted uranium do not have the same consequences, since obviously no inhalation can take place.
it is a question of strengthening europe's wider cultural reality, the cultural environment directly linked to economic and social reality.
we are talking about the risks to public health (allergies, increased resistance to antibiotics, possible toxicity) but also, more generally, the risks to the ecosystems where gmos are disseminated (threats to biodiversity).
all this reinforces our reservations and our conviction that, apart from the strengthening of controls and surveillance, the time is not yet right to legalise the voluntary release of gmos into the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the environmental alibi is not justified, since the cultivation of cotton, as scientifically proven, is significantly less harmful to the environment than other similar subsidised crops that producers abandoned to cultivate cotton.
we propose that all restrictions on cotton growing, quotas, co-responsibility fines, environmental impact be lifted so that the entire minimum price is paid to cotton producers.
the nuclear energy itself is a subject which has divided the european parliament once again, for obvious reasons.
but i would like to say right from the start that the committee on regional policy and transport made a very good choice in not discussing the question of principle, that is to say whether nuclear energy should exist or not, in this report, which has been on its mind for a long time and before the european elections, but simply to deal with the question of the transport of radioactive material within the european union.
it is the principle of proximity, and it is the subject of an old resolution of the european parliament from 1996. secondly, it is of great importance, and this report stands out for it, that the countries of central and eastern europe cooperate and comply with the rules of the international atomic energy agency, whether enlargement takes place very soon, as we all wish, or not, because there are problems in these countries which can threaten the safety and health of european citizens.
and there is no possibility of making such investments if the investment environment does not have at least a medium-term horizon.
in order to justify these financial cuts, an attempt is being made to paint the present situation in black in order to prepare the climate for drastic restrictions on quotas, prices and farmers' incomes, with the ultimate aim of drastically reducing community production.
the council, instead of speeding up the process of formulating a common european immigration policy, is instead hampering it, failing to take decisions, and cancelling the tampere process, with the result that a climate is maintained in europe which encourages racism and xenophobia and incidents like the one in dover.
the rules governing international economic relations and trade must serve the interests of workers, not infringe fundamental social rights, promote the growth of the least developed countries, respect the environment and the right of all peoples to exercise self-control and decide their own future.
free access, transparency and dissemination of information on the environment are fundamental rights of every citizen concerned about the quality of the environment in which he lives and works.
access to data held by public authorities and related to the environment is essential not only to improve public awareness but also to ensure citizens' trust and democratic participation.
the directive refers to information relating to the environment and must include all available forms such as written, visual, audio and other forms.
any person or organisation may request environmental information without the need to prove a legitimate interest.
as regards the time limit within which the administration must reply to a request for environmental information, i believe that two weeks is sufficient time for those concerned to be able to use the information in good time.
i think it is very important that there should be no obligation to provide information, nor any exemption, on particularly important issues, such as those relating to emissions, discharges and deposits or other releases into the environment.
in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs korhola, on her substantial report, which i am sure will be a major impetus towards active citizen involvement in tackling environmental problems.
in greece, since there are quite a number of projects of this type, which are co-financed by the cohesion fund or the regional funds, mainly in the transport, environment and energy sectors, it is difficult for me to give a very precise and complete answer in a few minutes.
- mr president, there is no doubt that there must be limits on emissions of air pollutants to protect the environment and human health.
in fact, it is proposed to eliminate lignite and coal as energy sources in the name of environmental protection, while other major sources of pollution, such as cars, are ignored.
in greece, we use lignite as one of the main sources of energy, which is economically viable.
if we consider that, as the experts say, natural gas reserves will last for a century and solid fuels for two and a half centuries, we should be talking about making better use of all energy sources rather than eliminating some of them, at a time when the energy problem is of the utmost importance and affects the cost of living of workers.
i would like to point out that we members of the european parliament often receive complaints about shortcomings and delays in the implementation of environmental legislation and its transposition into national law.
with such issues outstanding, it is difficult to apply the new legislation on 'environmental information'.
nevertheless, i am voting in favour of the report because it is a small step towards greater awareness of the environment in society, which will be achieved through adequate dissemination of the provisions of the directive and the rights deriving from it.
peace, cooperation, the rule of law and the inviolability of borders must be the framework of our policy; the commission has also been active in the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and in the fight against pollution.
peace and stability in the region appear to be a primary need for a political solution to the protracted crisis and it will take a long time and effort to bring about stable and sustainable constitutional institutions.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of the member states, but also of the community as a whole.
objective 3: tackling the determinants of health linked to lifestyle, socioeconomic conditions or the environment.
it is clear that areas such as research and the environment are directly linked to public health and must be given serious consideration in the action programmes.
thus, while it does speak pertinently of the serious health problems that continue to arise, it does not speak at all of the real social causes and conditions that undermine the health and threaten the lives of citizens, such as the worsening of working conditions, shift work and night work, the dramatic deterioration in the living standards of the working masses, the spread of poverty and unemployment, the impacts of market liberalisation on the food chain in the name of profit without limits and without barriers, environmental degradation, etc.
this requires strengthening citizens' sense of security, combating organised crime, strengthening police and judicial cooperation, mutual recognition of judicial decisions, developing an integrated and sustainable immigration policy based on our common european values, and combating racism and xenophobia in the european union.
in addition, the system of feed prices and aid for fodder plants had to be reviewed in the sense of support for fodder legumes, in order to ensure cheap and high-quality vegetable protein and to protect the environment, since legumes have a soil improving effect and are the best crops in land-use programmes, especially in mediterranean soil and climate conditions.
on the economic front, they limit state subsidies and aids, they go further in liberalising the telecommunications, postal, rail and energy sectors, and they pave the way for the completion of the transfer of public wealth to multinationals.
the stubborn adherence to notions such as 'ageing population', 'modernization of the european social model', and the priority of 'the sustainability of public finances' over social security systems, support and legitimize the attempts of many governments in the european union - as in greece - to dismantle social protection schemes and to hand over workers, without guarantees, to private insurance companies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the crisis.
the economic aspect cannot take priority over the environment and the health of people in general and of european citizens in particular!
the environment and health, the public health of european citizens, come first.
this spectacular turnaround of the last member state to meet the maastricht criteria is a general indication of the climate of monetary and fiscal stability that prevailed in europe as a result of the efforts of all to support the single currency.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the main questions for the european economy, for the european institutions and for the member states remain the same, even though the international environment has changed.
although some important points missing from the report by the same author on the european economic situation have now been taken up - notably the need for certain harmonisation in tax law, the emphasis on the importance of strengthening smes and the consideration of environmental aspects - there are still some key elements missing.
it also advocated an acceleration of privatisation, stating in concrete terms that the good example of liberalisation in the telecommunications sector should be continued in the energy, postal, airport, rail and maritime sectors, as agreed.
the eu's activities in a wide range of areas - trade policy, fisheries policy, energy policy - naturally have an impact on the realities of other countries.
the second is that the progressive line has finally been maintained, according to which the cost of financing the insurance system is not necessarily a negative element for the economy, since it is accepted that social protection is part of sustainable economic development and that the relative increase in the proportion of pension expenditure to gross national product remains unavoidable.
- the union's actions and positions on this issue are well documented, not least through the extensive media coverage of the latest comments and the extensive bilateral consultations carried out by the council; the council hardly needs to be reminded that the european community and its member states have played, and continue to play, a very active role in the international negotiations on climate change.
in its conclusions, the council has repeatedly reaffirmed its commitment to reach an agreement at the re-launched sixth conference of the parties, to safeguard the environmental integrity of the kyoto protocol and to create the conditions for its ratification and entry into force by 2002 at the latest.
it certainly does not need to be repeated that the council is firm both in its policy on climate change and in these commitments.
the stockholm european council in march 2001 reaffirmed the strong commitment to the kyoto protocol as the basis for international efforts to reduce emissions.
the troika has held extensive consultations with other parties, including canada, iran, which currently chairs the group of 77, russia, china and japan, to gather support for the kyoto process and the efforts of the chairman of the conference of the parties, the dutch minister for the environment, mr pronk.
the union has also made its position on the new administration in washington clear through several high-level representatives, including the swedish minister for the environment, kjell larsson, and the environment commissioner, margot wallström.
the eu stresses that climate change is an important part of the transatlantic relationship and calls on the united states to contribute constructively to this process.
- (el) it is only a euphemism to call the report 'safe and sustainable pensions', as it is clear from its spirit and scope that it cares for business and employers and advocates, in the most capital-friendly way, a radical revolution in social security and pensions.
the list of harsh anti-people measures that lead us to believe that we will not have 'safe and sustainable pensions' is endless and automatically echoes the other part of the report, which deals with 'the future development of social protection in a long-term perspective'.
- mr president, after the failure of the fifth environmental action programme, the bankruptcy of terms such as sustainability, waste reduction, greenhouse gas limitation and highly advertised international environmental organisations in the public consciousness, the european union with the sixth action programme is turning unilaterally and openly to the private sector to manage the environmental crisis, culminating in distorted ethical and environmental practices and tools such as the trading of greenhouse gases.
the european union is simply and cynically facing the acute environmental problem, which, with the bombing of yugoslavia and the depleted uranium bombs, has contributed, among other disasters, to the destruction of countless precious natural resources.
the diversion of the upper acheuleu river, which is a major environmental project, water, energy and partly irrigation, is pending because the community support frameworks, the notorious packages, do not finance such projects.
the european union, which is supposedly concerned about the environment, should not reconsider its attitude towards these projects and finance them?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
culture is a collective creation of society and no one has the right to appropriate a work of art, depriving it of the social whole, or even removing it from the environment in which it was created.
in september 2002, a very important conference is taking place in johannesburg, south africa, the world conference on sustainable development.
i am quite convinced that there will be many opportunities, particularly in the run-up to the conference i mentioned, to demonstrate the union's willingness to contribute to sustainable development in these areas.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
we are now in a competitive environment.
i voted against the second part of paragraph 23 of the joint motion for a resolution on the gothenburg european council for the following reasons: firstly, because there is no official commission proposal to phase out tobacco subsidies, only a reference by the president of the european commission, mr romano prodi, to the debate on sustainable development.
but objectively, the council will be held in a climate clouded by the recent referendum in ireland, whose people rejected the treaty of nice.
the appeal to the environment and the euphemism of 'sustainable development' are a smokescreen to hide the intrusion of neoliberal politics even into the field of this social good called the environment.
i fully agree with what has been said here, because the directorate-general for energy and transport is responsible for regulating the working time of drivers beyond driving time, for safety reasons.
i think that from the point of view of the internal logic of the regulation, it is based on the fact that fatigue is a risk to safety, and that is why, as the head of the directorate-general for energy and transport, i tabled a proposal of this nature, because otherwise it would be a matter for the commissioner responsible for social affairs and not for me.
a comparison with the status of other bodies, such as the european environment agency or the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products, leads to the conclusion that these bodies have a wider scope of initiatives and responsibilities.
for example, there is no provision for the commission to approve the work programme of the agency for the evaluation of medicinal products, whereas similar arrangements apply to the environment agency.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
recently, we have had tragic incidents, for example in italy, which banned greek ships, owned by greece but not flying the greek flag, from entering italy, while others were allowed to enter... the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of the environment.
finally, the oil pollution compensation fund.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the modern way of life is so dependent on oil as an energy source that if it were to suddenly cease to exist, it would paralyse almost everything.
the commission's communication, which is extremely important in its content and bold in its findings on the oil supply to europe, mr linkohr's report on it, the opinions of the committees on transport, the environment and economic and monetary policy, which i have the honour to be asked to deliver an opinion on, are clear and, to a large extent, all converge on a few key findings.
sixthly, the pollution of the air on our planet, note this, is due to 70% of transport and only 7% to industry, and let us confine our criticism misleadingly to the polluting industry alone, whereas cars and airplanes are the main polluters of our planet.
therefore, as it is also a non-renewable resource, it should not be wasted.
in the long term, we, and the european union in particular, must turn to other sources of energy, such as natural gas, the hydrogen that is abundant on our planet, nuclear energy - with emphasis on fusion - and of course all the other sustainable sources, among which solar energy has a prominent place.
(the president cut off the speaker)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the crisis.
the report nevertheless attacks the reduction of taxation and proposes the harmonisation of taxes at higher levels, covering up this unpopular choice with the cloak of environmental sensitivity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
i believe that only a purely state-owned energy company can in any country prioritise and exploit the existing energy sources, taking into account both the economic cost and the protection of the environment in the public interest.
the commission's proposal is not a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment, but a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment, which is a very important one.
the commission's communication of december last on the community objectives for the 33rd icao assembly is the reference framework for preparing and evaluating the results to be achieved at the 33rd icao assembly, both in terms of reducing noise and noise emissions from aircraft and in terms of reducing gas emissions.
this communication is very explicit in terms of the achievement of agreements at the icao level, both in terms of reducing aircraft noise and measures to reduce greenhouse gases, and in terms of limiting the operations of aircraft which only marginally meet the noise standards of chapter 3, and which are the major contributors to noise at airports.
the conclusion of an agreement on the occasion of this assembly, with a resolution that will enable the contracting countries to meet their obligations in terms of reducing greenhouse gases in an easier or more comfortable way, is also part of our objectives.
i am, of course, talking about an agreement on the constitution of a new chapter 4, with a reduction of 10 decibels compared with the maximum emissions authorized in the previous chapters.
for the environment, for our quality of life, we must reduce the noise emitted by airplanes, much more so as air traffic increases and the situation gets worse every year.
the 33rd icao meeting is an opportunity which we must seize and not let go to waste.
mr president, the gothenburg summit was the first in the history of the european union at which the priority was to ensure the sustainability and viability of the socioeconomic development model.
judging by the outcome of the meeting and the support of strategies, the most substantial achievement is the institutionalisation of a step-by-step process for monitoring environmental policy with the annual audit introduced at the spring european council.
the establishment of a first phase of certain objectives and measures in four areas could also be of major importance: climate change, ensuring sustainable transport, addressing public health risks and responsible movement of natural resources.
i say 'could' because no concrete measures to manage the costs of pollution, affecting both individuals and businesses, have been adopted in parallel.
it is, however, a starting point for moving from declarations and intentions to the implementation of an integrated environmental protection policy, inextricably linked to social and economic development.
in conclusion, mr president, i would say that the summit may have declared the integration of environmental sustainability objectives, but unfortunately what is missing is the adoption of timetables, binding indicators, targets and concrete measures.
the negative economic environment, which has brought us to the point of being almost in recession, has created a lot of pressure.
there are many different early retirement systems in place in all member states which have caused many problems regarding the financial sustainability of the pension systems.
secondly, since the objective is sustainable pensions, and indeed decent pensions, in order to achieve this objective, should we also look at the scope for increasing the gross proceeds to be allocated to pensions?
as the greek authorities have recently announced, in the face of the new, less favourable international environment, national forecasts will be more in line with the commission's spring forecasts.
on our recent visit to yugoslavia we were informed by representatives of the serbian parliament that the material damage alone exceeds 100 billion dollars, not counting the loss of life and the damage to the natural environment, not only in yugoslavia but in the whole of the balkans, with the tens of thousands of depleted uranium bombs dropped there.
the operational programme which limits environmental pollution is good, but it cannot on its own improve farmer income support.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis.
in ignalina i believe that all the necessary efforts will be made both for lithuania's energy efficiency and for the secondary and primary effects on its society and economy, and i think that things will turn out well.
as chairman of the eu-bulgaria joint committee, i want to say that yes, there has certainly been a significant intervention by the european union, positive impulses have been given on issues such as the energy sector, the restructuring of the rural sector, investment programmes in bulgaria, but at the same time i cannot ignore, for example, the latest eurostat estimates, which were published a week ago and literally show a flood of social gains in bulgaria.
it called on the member states to take effective measures to prevent the formation of groups 'using violence' and the emergence or maintenance of an 'environment conducive to terrorism'.
the accession of cyprus has greater weight and importance because it can make a decisive contribution to a fair settlement of the cyprus question on the basis of un resolutions and to the elimination of a major tension which is aggravating the political climate in the eastern mediterranean, especially after the invasion of the northern part of the island by turkish troops who have continued their inhumane occupation for more than a quarter of a century.
this is why the committee on petitions, together with the european ombudsman, has become a refuge for those who feel they have been wronged or who are active citizens trying to prevent illegalities, injustices and environmental destruction.
and a proposal which, if adopted, i believe would be of enormous importance: to introduce, under certain conditions, a procedure for interim measures which would immediately suspend ongoing infringements of community legislation where irreparable damage to our natural environment or cultural heritage is threatened.
the proposal to reject the abolition of milk quotas in mountain areas, on the grounds of reduced competitiveness and high production costs, also demonstrates the complete absence of social criteria and the outrageous hypocrisy of the european union's environmental declarations, since the same restrictive measures are applied to mountain and industrial livestock farming, when everyone is aware of the differences between them in terms of both the environment and public health.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way.
for these reasons, mr president, we shall vote against the report because we believe that the specific measures proposed, operating within the general framework of agenda 2000 and the logic of so-called competitiveness, will not only fail to prevent but will accelerate the economic withering and desertification of mountain areas, with enormous economic, social and environmental consequences.
of course there is concern, but also a sense of the historic duty which falls to the union and the interest of both the new and the old member states in helping to ensure the sustainable and balanced development of the whole european continent.
but we should also stress our call on the european commission to ensure that the principle of gender equality and the observance of statistics are duly taken into account not only in the planning but also throughout the monitoring and intervention of the structural funds in order to increase the employment of women, to ensure quality and sustainability in new jobs and to create such infrastructures as will ensure the harmonization of working and family life.
only when each worker feels safe in the workplace from the behaviour of colleagues and superiors, when he feels that instead of being disapproved of for his shortcomings, he feels an environment that embraces him, then all groups, and they are numerous, who are victims of harassment will prefer to enter the labour market and then the results of their offer will far outweigh any weaknesses.
the action plan should include, in addition to measures to prohibit harassment, an obligation on employers to impose a climate of non-harassment among colleagues, accompanied by measures to encourage such individuals at work.
equal access opportunities for women must be ensured, legislation on the protection of occupations with an unhealthy environment, maternity protection must be strengthened, and measures must be adopted to ensure all forms of atypical work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat noise pollution, including the introduction of a new noise-reduction system.
the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
a favourable environment is essentially what is needed to develop new initiatives, new discoveries and scientific applications.
in the social field we must recognize that environmental destruction, pandemic diseases, poverty and misery are threats to the security of the world and must be treated as such, as terrorism.
the attention and concern of the competent greek authorities to prevent and limit the consequences of serious accidents is well illustrated by the response of the commissioner for the environment to a request i made.
america approached it in the last five years of the last century in a climate of excessive speculation, which is what is leading us today.
it is clear that there is a consensus, at least so far, on the initiatives of the european union, but there are also some sensitive points which require special attention: (a) the reference to article 5 of the atlantic treaty, without the country of origin of the attack having been determined, creates a climate of war and confrontation which is very dangerous; (b) the limitation of police action to combat terrorism must be respect for the freedoms of citizens; (c) policy towards 'friendly' countries such as saudi arabia, which have helped to spread fundamentalism by financing it, should be clearly defined; (d) the solution of the palestinian question, and in particular the problem of jerusalem, will free enormous masses of muslims from the domination and demagogy of islamists; (e) concrete intervention on the global problem of poverty will free entire societies in asia or africa from the distress that acts as a breeding ground for terrorism; (f) the european union must avoid berlusconi's divisive speech and blair's prosecutor's speech, and approach the world of islam with serenity and friendship.
it is not this phenomenon that is the eu's concern but the setting of a timetable for the full liberalisation of natural gas and electricity markets, the acceleration of liberalisation of energy, transport and postal services markets, and the guarantee of universal access to services of general interest, with a view to improving the competitiveness of the economy.
these criteria are: direct link between the projects and employment growth, genuine innovation in the design and implementation of the action, quality and sustainability of the measure, and the possibility of disseminating and disseminating the results within the framework of the european social fund.
the balance was difficult between, on the one hand, the ambitious objectives set by the european union for women's employment and its quality, the already high social acquis in the field of equal treatment between men and women and the particularly good performance of some member states, sometimes higher than the proposals for a directive (ms karamanou and ms smet referred to similar experiences in greece and belgium), and, on the other hand, the realism of not restricting the flexibility and position of women's work in a difficult economic and work environment, of facilitating the acceleration of our cooperation with the council and the european commission, but not burdening the important issues that women need to achieve in this field, such as equal opportunities and the need to strengthen the workforce, and the need to strengthen the quality of work.
they must not infringe basic social rights and must contribute to the development of less developed countries, respect the environment and the right of every people to exercise control and decide for themselves about their future.
the wto is by its very nature an imperialist construct, concerned only with maximising the profit of capital and securing safer and more flexible means for capital, in particular trade and stock exchange capital, to flow unhindered, with the result that large sections of the world's population are impoverished and pollution and environmental destruction are constantly increasing.
in addition, in the name of 'global responsibility for peace, stability and sustainable development', the need for the eu to deploy its strategic plans in iran, china, korea and indonesia is emphasised.
but it compares different things, because the meat-producing units, which are mainly in the northern countries, are large enterprises which provide their owners with a satisfactory income and profit, whereas the mixed production units, which are mainly in the mediterranean countries, are family farms in the most arid areas, which do not provide their owners with a sustainable income, with the result that these areas decline over time and become deserted.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
and of course, when we talk about competitiveness and liberalization and we adopt it in telecommunications, we adopt it in energy, we adopt it in rail transport, we cannot exclude port services.
– energy drinks were discussed at the 84th meeting of the standing committee on foodstuffs on 19 september 2001. as noted, two member states have reported deaths in their countries associated with the consumption of those products.
in neither case, however, was there any evidence that the consumption of energy drinks was the cause of death.
none of the member states concerned took any steps to restrict or prohibit energy drinks in their own territory.
so-called energy drinks are not covered by any specific legislation and are not subject to an approval procedure at community level.
the commissioner, as you are well aware, is talking about a public health issue and i would remind you that in these cases we do not need proof, but simple indications, and especially when we are talking about the public health of young people, such as those who consume energy drinks.
new knowledge in human genetic material will help us understand the areas of the genetic potential that are vulnerable and vulnerable to environmental challenges and pressures, as well as to our life habits, so as to enable the development of new strategies for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of the diseases i have mentioned.
a note on the euratom programme: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are not used for the production of nuclear fuel.
the sustainability of our social model is the first condition for our development.
- (el) the opening up of port services to competition, as promoted by the commission, will have a number of serious and negative consequences: (a) on the quality of port use and standards applied, because of competition and the employment of unskilled staff; (b) on the working conditions and future prospects of port workers, by endangering their health and safety, interrupting their vocational training and weakening their skills; (c) safety of maritime transport and the environment, due to the general deterioration of the services provided.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
- (el) the increasing energy consumption, combined with the decline in fossil fuel sources and deposits, makes energy supply a particularly important issue in the internal and external policy of the eu and the member states.
the chichester report, while stressing the need to save energy, increase energy efficiency and develop efficient transport systems, puts its hopes for a solution to the problem in market liberalisation and competition on the one hand and control of supplying countries on the other.
it does so at the expense of workers and, more generally, citizens, both in the supplying and the consuming countries, who are sacrificed on the altar of the profits of multinational companies which provoke and exploit crises, provoke wars, in order to control the regions of the planet which are of interest from the energy point of view.
energy policy, as regards the exploitation of domestic energy sources, obeys the same injunctions, with adverse effects on the interests of the lower classes, on development, on the guarantee of quality, safe and ecologically acceptable energy for the whole population.
the problem is aggravated by the liberalisation of the energy market and the privatisation of generation units and transmission networks.
we believe that the strategic energy sector (supply of raw materials, production, transport networks) should be publicly owned and subject to national programming which will be periodically adjusted to take account of national needs and international conditions.
energy policy must ensure the supply of cheap energy for the needs of the lower classes, guarantee the safety of workers and inhabitants, and ensure the protection of the environment.
transport policy must be reoriented towards the use of public transport, renewable energy sources must be strengthened and encouraged, and research must be carried out into more cost-effective production systems and more economical, less polluting consumption systems.
it is essential that the eu and the member states meet environmental protection requirements, and failure to reduce emissions to the levels set by the kyoto agreement is a bad pretext.
the major problems of climate change, the ozone hole, etc., cannot be solved at the expense of the development of the poorest countries, at the expense of workers, or by fatalistic acceptance of the destruction of our planet.
the workers in europe and the rest of the world, the two billion people who do not have access to electricity, are demanding and fighting for an alternative energy policy, opposed to imperialist interests and choices, against the monopoly capital that owns the energy sector.
a policy which will respect and protect the environment, a policy which will create the basis for human living conditions.
the report focuses on what it calls 'pricing to promote the sustainability of water resources' by recovering the costs of water services and limiting water consumption and use precisely because of the price increase.
under the hypocritical pretext of allegedly ensuring the sustainability of water resources, the real ones who will pay, and even pay very dearly, for the consequences of the proposed measures are consumers, mainly farmers in southern europe, since both the commission report and the communication in question indicate that they are the biggest consumers of water, those who pay for water below its 'real price'.
in a typical formula, the report divides the cost into financial, environmental and resource costs, considering that only financial costs have been taken into account until now.
we absolutely deny the commission the right to claim to be the protector of water resources, which, under the pretext of 'encouraging sustainable use', once again 'water to the mill' of private interests by offering them the opportunity to enter and act in a purely public sector of general interest.
the only beneficiaries of this policy will be certain large companies which, by selling their 'environmental profile' at a high price, will still find a good opportunity to increase their profits tenfold.
indeed, new insights in human genetics will help us understand the areas of our genetic potential that are vulnerable and vulnerable to environmental challenges and pressures, as well as to our life consciousness, so as to enable the development of new strategies for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of disease.
this has a bitter taste of "cloaking", of repression and suppression of the free movement of citizens, of their rights, in a climate of "terrorist psychosis" in order to serve objectives foreign to security.
mr graefe zu baringdorf says farmers must know what is in their feed, mr kindermann applies this to slops and waste and catering waste and i fully agree with those statements.
but how do you intend to change this climate?
with regard to waste water treatment, council directive 91/271 concerning urban waste water treatment foresees rules for slaughterhouses.
waste water above a particular volume must meet conditions established in prior regulations and or specific authorisations by the competent authority since 31 december 2000. where slaughterhouses discharge directly into the public sewer, the general rules of the directive are valid.
the concern for the problems of the least developed countries and for the environment remains rhetorical and therefore hypocritical.
however, important elements of our proposals were not adopted in the common position or even part of the programme proposal was deleted by the council, leading to an amendment of the common position in the committee on the environment, whose members voted by a large majority for this recommendation for second reading.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the directive is not undermined.
the report by mr gemelli, chairman of the committee on petitions, which was adopted by parliament today, therefore calls for the powers and efficiency of the committee on petitions to be increased so that citizens who make a complaint can be brought to justice in good time and irreparable damage to the environment or cultural monuments can be prevented.
on the one hand, we have been able to respond effectively to the concerns of the citizens of europe, particularly in france, following the sinking of the tanker erika, with regard to the protection of the environment.
on the one hand, in france, i think the citizens are relatively satisfied with the measures we are taking, all europeans who are concerned about the environment are satisfied with the significant progress being made, and on the other hand, the industry, the people involved in shipping, the seafarers and the shipowners, feel that we have not gone so far as to undermine the interests of this important sector of the economy.
let me also remind you and emphasize that my country, greece, whose economy, as we know, depends on shipping to a much greater extent than that of the other partners, is leading the way in the fight for safety at sea, in the effort to protect human life and the environment.
however, there are no convincing references in the declaration, as other colleagues have said, to the welfare state, which some people say is a shameful social model, to sustainable development, to sustainable development, to an autonomous and, i would say, therefore viable presence of the union.