the difficult environment in which the funds have had to operate, their role as a pump primer, the approach in giving priority to disadvantaged areas and the unique role in pioneering the joint management and delivery of cross-border programmes have all been given the recognition they deserve.
mr president, the drinking-water directive, waste-management directive, major accident hazards, sewage sludge, asbestos, wild birds, waste shipment, not to mention the habitats directive, the nitrates directive and the pcb directive.
the list is long, the list of the failure of my own country to transpose eu environmental law.
only last weekend i read in the irish media that the head of the commission's environment dg, mr curry, complained to ireland's eu ambassador, mr denis o'leary, last autumn that the irish authorities were not cooperating adequately with brussels on environmental issues.
commissioner wallström wrote last march to the irish minister of the environment, mr dempsey, suggesting that the large number of irish environmental complaints currently being dealt with by the eu officials be dealt with in his department or by the irish ombudsman.
with 1% of the community's population, to our shame we in ireland have been generating 10% of the commission's environmental complaints.
mr curry had strong words for not only our department of the environment but also our department of finances policies, our environmental protection agency, our heritage protection agency and, indeed, our local authorities.
it very quickly became apparent that the trampling of the pilgrims' feet and not divine intervention had, in fact, been essential to protect that particular ecosystem.
changing the essential balance between human activity and our environment led to the loss of this precious ecosystem.
today we need more quality and we need to consider the environment.
the current unfavourable economic climate for farming in general and young farmers in particular, the obvious lack of prospects for young farmers, the decline in the number of full-time farmers and the consequent ageing of those who remain – these are all general trends which underline the problem.
in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, the chief inspector of the uk nuclear installations inspectorate said quite clearly that he would shut the reprocessing facility if the recommendations were not complied with in full.
i also referred to the adverse affects on other member states, namely the republic of ireland, and would like to draw the commissioner's attention to a report published by the radiological protection institute of ireland in december 2000, which is critical of emissions from sellafield and their adverse effect on the republic of ireland.
such initiatives are intended to combat the growing saturation, the negative environmental effects, the excessive dependence on oil and the high number of road accidents.
in the second phase, which is expected to start before 2004, the guidelines will be further reviewed, taking account in particular of the enlargement of the union and the environment, and the main multimodal transport routes will be identified.
i asked if the commission was planning to review current priority or non-priority road projects within the trans-european networks framework so as to give preference to more sustainable transport modes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy needs are met by renewable sources.
our potential for renewable energy in the european union is limited, both for physical reasons - because apart from solar energy, where we could have a greater margin, the others have clear limitations - and for economic reasons, because it is true that renewable energy must be supported - and i have already said that i have taken concrete and positive initiatives in this regard - but, despite everything, a certain level of competitiveness and balance must be maintained.
i think that 12% of basic energy should come from renewable sources, which is a very ambitious target, and i am prepared to make every effort to achieve that target by 2010. that said, the evidence cannot be denied, and the evidence is that, apart from other very serious problems such as waste, nuclear energy does not involve pollution by emissions.
at the moment, unfortunately, the problem of climate change is absolutely out of control.
not only the green paper on energy but also the white paper on transport - because transport has a lot to do with this issue - clearly has a direction in the sense of trying to minimise the effects, from the point of view of climate change and from the environmental point of view, while maintaining development, growth and a quality of life.
in your response you relied heavily on the economic argument, but we have to say that both nuclear energy and coal are, in fact, heavily subsidised.
as mrs isler béguin said, can we see the same level of subsidies – look at the money spent on research in fusion – in renewable energies?
firstly, do you consider waste incineration a renewable energy, because we need clarification on that?
secondly, where we get industrial profits as an additional source of funding for renewable energy, will we see a level playing field across the board?
i would refer you also to the fact – i have said this in other fora – that director-general lamoureux has made statements on nuclear energy which vastly exceed the brief of the commission.
in the conclusions to its communication the commission lists among its priorities: better coherence between the various objectives pursued by the cfp, such as conservation of resources, the economic efficiency of the fleet and securing employment in fisheries – dependent areas, taking account of the economic dimension of fisheries management, better integration of environmental and fisheries policy, improvement of management tools such as multi-annual management objectives and strategies, management of fishing effort, and full integration of the mediterranean into the community management regime, a more accountable decision-making process and maintaining the external dimension of the common fisheries policy.
this must be taken into consideration in the wto talks and the review of the common fisheries policy, and i welcome the reference to an environmental and health food standard in mr varela suanzes-carpegna's report.
the use of maximum sustainable yield or any of a number of other reference points is quite simply wrong, for they lead to over-fishing and stock collapse.
i am therefore glad to hear from the commission and from some of the members who have spoken that we are open to considering all the environmental consequences.
the commission's efforts will be integrated into our wider programme of support in the balkans with respect to health and the environment, because we must look at the accumulated effects.
i also support 100% the main objective of the agreement, which is to help sustainable economic development, particularly for the poorest, women and children.
the investment schemes will cover farm waste management, improvement of milk hygiene standards, housing and handling infrastructure for alternative businesses.
we should also note that the nature of these programmes demonstrates a clear commitment to environmental protection, which will be central to the future development of irish and european agriculture.
the future belongs to our young farmers and to sustainable and environmentally friendly farming practices.
that is the one way of guaranteeing that we can keep a food source going, provide employment and protect environmental considerations within our fishing waters.
the swedish government has made it clear that it intends to prioritise what is known as the 3 es during its presidency of the union, and this relates to addressing the key problems of enlargement of the union, employment matters and promoting environmental issues.
presently, many of the more difficult chapters of discussions still remain unopened, and these include agricultural issues, the free movement of persons, the implementation of eu social and employment legislation and the incorporation of many eu directives and regulations in the field of environmental matters.
i welcome the fact that the swedish government is going to ensure that employment and environmental matters stay at the top of the agenda during its presidency of the union.
finally, i hope that the european union and the united states of america can come to an agreement in bonn in may of this year so as to guarantee that environmental targets to reduce the effects of global warming can be reached.
mr president, i welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on sustainable forest industries which are indeed of primary importance to the european union.
climate change: the rapporteur makes some interesting comments here.
we have had oceans since time immemorial, and this has nothing to do with our present problems with climate change, so i agree with my other colleagues and cannot see what possible relevance that paragraph has.
finally, with regard to the paper industry: it should clean up its bad former record on the pollution of the environment, and it is also important to inquire into the difficulties of monopolies in the paper sector, particularly with regard to cartels in the recycling sector.
with regard to the eu operational programme for forestry and the generous funding available for afforestation, it is imperative that the end product of this investment is a quality, sustainable forest product, one capable of yielding over time a return both for the individual farmer and the community.
if we are to address the need for sustainability, we must tackle these problems very early on.
it does not work and it is also an ecological disaster.
as a member of the european parliament representing the east coast of ireland, i am particularly angered by the extent of shipments of nuclear waste within the irish sea.
i am especially pleased that there is now growing international opposition to shipments of nuclear waste from britain to japan.
the argentinian navy is presently on alert to intercept a british ship carrying enough nuclear waste to give off twice the amount of radiation as the chernobyl disaster.
the british nuclear fuel's vessel named pacific swan is rapidly becoming the pariah of south america because the captain intends to negotiate the treacherous waters of cape horn with 90 tonnes of waste vitrified in 192 glass blocks.
i believe that the countries of the ospar convention must now form broader international links with other countries along the main shipping routes of nuclear waste, which includes countries around the panama canal, south america, and the coast of africa.
within the european union an environmental impact assessment must be carried out on the construction of new roads, water and sewage facilities and large infrastructure projects.
to date, the british government has refused to conduct an international environmental impact assessment on the significant risks posed to the environment and people's health along the transportation routes of nuclear waste.
i am now calling on the british government to bring forward a full and comprehensive environmental impact assessment outlining the environmental risks of transporting of nuclear materials within the irish sea.
that is how we need to do our business, to put a drive, a focus and an energy behind it.
commissioner byrne's white paper on food safety sets the ground rules and parameters within which the practical application of genetic research impacts on public health and the environment, and i have no doubt the vigilance of parliament is a further safeguard.
the vigilance we are rightly demonstrating on the release of genetically modified organisms on the environment and food safety must be intensified with regard to research in the sensitive and ethical area of gene technology and its impact and implications for mankind.
in fact, such approvals would run counter to the precautionary principle to which the new directive explicitly refers and would threaten the environment and consumer health.
it will also ensure new and higher safety standards for environmental and public health protection, build on a broader approach to risk assessment and introduce new traceability and control concepts that could help to accelerate the identification and control of the adverse effects of gmos.
(applause)
it is not only the e in environment that is a priority for the swedish presidency, but also, as the honourable member will know, the e in enlargement.
these negotiations are based primarily on the existing common regulatory framework, but they nevertheless give us the opportunity to point out to the candidate countries the important issues of sustainable development that the council is discussing, in this case in the field of transport.
mr president, this question of sustainability is indeed of great interest and the priority of the swedish presidency is welcome.
you have also referred at length to energy.
energy efficiency is an important priority.
will you take any steps on the action plan for energy efficiency?
i agree that a 10% increase in the gdp per annum is not sustainable, given the pressure on labour supply and house prices.
it poses the question as to whether the work carried out in the committee and today’s debate have been a total waste of time.
that is why i am particularly pleased that the greater london assembly set up a committee last week to investigate safety concerns on the transportation of radioactive waste by rail through london.
cartloads of nuclear waste are regularly stored at marshalling yards in willesden.
a separate but related matter is that it is high time for a full environmental impact assessment to be carried out on the likely environmental damage that could arise from nuclear shipments across the irish sea.
once again, i call on the european commissioner for the environment, mrs wallström, to invoke powers under the euratom treaty to force an independent evaluation of the environmental risks to be carried out for the shipment of nuclear materials in the irish sea.
instead we should direct our energy and resources to bringing stability to the sector, restoring consumer confidence in food and investing in promotion and market development.
radioactivity is a serious threat to health and the environment.
ionizing radiation causes energy transfers of a level that can cause mutations in the material it penetrates, or even cause irreversible damage to human cells.
the transport of nuclear waste must never pass through densely populated areas.
mr president, it is good that we have so many environmental reports here today.
the fact that the united states and the european union could not recently come to an agreement on the permitted level of future gas emissions is certainly an unwelcome development.
i hope that the us and the european union can strike a proper agreement that will ensure a sustained reduction in the level of greenhouse gases.
the fact of the matter is that the greater the reduction of greenhouse gases, the greater the effect it has on climatic change which in turn will have a devastating effect on coastal communities and island communities, not only in europe but world-wide.
i am fully aware of the preparation of the european union for the world summit on sustainable development which is being held in south africa in the year 2002 and i support the four lines of action which have been drawn up by the european commission in preparation for this world summit.
the european union will seek to protect natural resources that lie at the root of the economic development, to strive for the promotion of eco-efficiency, promote sustainable use of water, land and energy as well as try to ensure that the vicious cycle of poverty and environmental degradation is broken and this is best achieved under the framework of the united nations.
the pressures on the environment have worsened and poverty continues to win ground in the world.
the community fifth environmental action programme protects people from the adverse effects of air pollution.
since it is clear that the long-term goal set out by the fifth environmental action programme would not be attained easily, the commission has rightly decided on a step-by-step approach setting out its so-called interim environmental targets for the year 2010. the environmental committee will continue to play an important coordinating role in this regard and i would congratulate the rapporteur on the report.
mr president, the overall aim in amending directive 90/313/eec on access to information on the environment is to enable the community and member states to comply with certain provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation and decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters.
as this directive applies to all documents in the environment area, in many cases the files might be in storage off-site and perhaps not computerised.
however, we must question further tightening beyond the common position and whether it will bring any significant additional environmental benefits.
the common position was developed in tandem with the proposed nec directive and represents a coherent and balanced approach to achieving environmental objectives over time.
the proposed amendments are not justified in terms of environmental benefits and associated costs and other impacts and would disturb the balance achieved.
additional restrictions on existing lcp are not justified in the context of member state commitments under the nec directive to reduce overall emissions and the impending application of the ippc directive.
for example, stringent and uneconomic elvs for small plants will hinder combined heat and power development and others do not support an integrated approach to the environment.
proposals to tighten elvs are not proportionate regarding costs and benefits and fail to recognise that the common position is a balance between improving environmental performance and avoiding excessive costs and other impacts.
no cost-benefit analysis is provided for the further reduction of emissions from plants with already low emission concentrations.
this will require more energy input and result in increased co2 emissions, the use of more raw materials and the production of hazardous waste.
however, it is not at all clear that the benefits in additional nox emission reductions outweigh the associated environmental and economic costs, i.e.
this is not consistent with an integrated approach to the environment as a whole.
but it is also important that we have a broad debate on the issues at hand, that is, how europe can really face globalisation and how europe can become a strong force in employment, environmental issues and the discussions that we will have here later today.
eu leaders want to promote more and better jobs and worker mobility, anticipate and manage change in the working environment, combat poverty, exclusion and discrimination, modernise social protection systems and promote equality.
the environment is under enormous pressure.
it is essential that next year's world summit succeeds in strengthening measures that ensure that development is undertaken in a sustainable way and that existing communities are protected.
the fifth environmental action programme offers protection against the harmful effects of air pollution.
its long-term objective will not be easily achieved; the commission has therefore rightly decided on a phased approach setting intermediate environmental objectives for the year 2010. i am glad that the report has been amended to include energy and nuclear fuels, as well as financial and economic analyses.
it is essential that we also cover information on nuclear fuels and in particular subsidies for nuclear fuels and energy.
the report has not dealt with serious concerns such as ethics in biotechnology, public health, consumers' concerns regarding food, and indeed the effects on the environment.
in the area of food production, our citizens have asked us to guarantee them healthy food, with the necessary precautions to achieve this objective and adequate responsibility and sanctions to deal with any violation that harms human health or the environment.
i believe the promise of eliminating disease, increasing yields and cleaning up the environment is yet to be proven.
it poses significant environment and health problems over its entire life cycle.
recycling cannot solve the problem as potential recycling rates under ecological criteria are projected to reach only 5% by 2020. the problem is set to get worse, as waste quantities will increase significantly over the next decades.
it included a coalition of industry, waste-management, local and national authorities, environmental, health and consumer interests.
for this reason, contamination of the environment is possible during the production phase, and during the waste phase once pvc has been used.
no data are available on the state of landfill waste containing large amounts of pvc.
the next 20 years will probably see an increase of around 80% in the quantities of pvc waste because of the increase in the average lifespan of certain pvc products such as window frames.
the european pvc industry has signed a voluntary commitment concerning the sustainable development of pvc and this programme is to be implemented this year.
mr president, the community budget is the blood supply to a sustainable common agricultural policy.
the continuity of farming as a sustainable career for new entrants has again been brought into focus.
it would certainly be a serious mistake to allow the current crisis to panic us into introducing drastic budget changes which would militate against the sustainability of european family farming.
what steps can be taken to make sure that the kyoto protocol remains the firm basis for future negotiations and action to reduce emissions?
mr president, there was palpable shock and disappointment at president bush's recent announcement that the us will not cooperate with efforts to decrease carbon emissions in the endeavour to stave off the real threat of global warming.
the us, with 5% of the world's population, produces 25% of the world's greenhouse gases.
it is not a question of the environment, or of employment.
the promotion and protection of economic competitiveness is inextricably linked to the protection of the environment.
environmental protection is therefore a matter of enlightened self-interest for the future economic wellbeing and competitiveness of europe, the us and the entire world.
viewed this way, environmental protection becomes part of a virtuous circle whereby a high-quality environment is sustained by wealth, which in turn is sustained by competition, which in turn requires a high-quality environment.
yes, environmental orthodoxies must be constantly scrutinised and re-evaluated to ensure that the protection required is proportionate and effective.
what kyoto requires of us all is just that: proportionate and effective responses to the global threat of climate change.
great sensitivity, tolerance and compassion must be employed when it is proposed to apply the environmental standards of the developed world to the economies and environments of emerging economies.
productivity and profitability are important prerequisites for environmental protection and enhancement.
i acknowledge the need for sustained economic competitiveness to provide the very resources required for a high-quality environment.
it is not jobs or the environment.
environmental pollution, climate change, is no respecter of borders.
mr president, here is the world leader, who has such an irresponsible attitude towards the environment and towards our future; it is completely unacceptable.
considering that the us is the world's biggest consumer of energy, it is completely unacceptable for it to take this totally irresponsible approach.
however, the environment committee did give the ferrets a knock and that is where it stands subject to perhaps investigating what my colleague mr whitehead has said.
i have problems with any continuation of the use of tattoos, and the environment committee is of the same view.
future agricultural and environmental policy must therefore reflect our experience in this crucial area of food production.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
– mr president, waste from electronic and electrical equipment is now one of the fastest growing waste streams in the european union.
it is estimated that this waste stream, which constitutes 4% of municipal waste today, will increase by at least 3-5% every year.
electronic and electrical equipment is one of the largest known sources of heavy metals and organic pollutants in the waste stream.
the need for business to adapt to a changing agenda, taking more account of environmental concerns, is widely accepted; it is also accepted that countries and industries which innovate more quickly will end up being more competitive than those which delay.
the objective of this is that by making producers financially responsible for their products when they become waste, an upstream effect is created, which leads to design for the environment, considering the durability, reparability or upgrading, disassembly and recycling of the product.
in addition, through the eco-design, the reuse of resources and separate collection, hazardous substances contained in the waste stream are prevented from entering the environment in an uncontrolled way.
the costs of disposal, – which up to now have been borne by local authorities, usually as part of waste disposal –are to be internalised and provision made for the reuse, recycling and de-manufacture of this equipment.
the ultimate aim is waste prevention.
we have had some debate about collective and individual systems, which the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has gone into in detail.
furthermore, small equipment definitely needs to be separately collected to prevent it from ending up in municipal waste, where hazardous chemicals are not controlled.
all stakeholders should have the opportunity to submit data as the basis for an early review, including environmental and consumers' associations, because it is in all our interests that this directive works effectively.
mr president, the weee directive increases producer responsibility for current and historic domestic waste, electrical and electronic equipment from mobile phones, toasters and pcs to washing machines.
this waste is growing at up to 5% per year due to technological innovation and market expansion and contains a percentage of dangerous substances that are currently finding their way into municipal landfills, obviously posing clear environmental hazards.
hence, the need for the second proposed directive to reduce the risk of impact on human health and the environment of the production, use, treatment and disposal of weee.
while i endorse both directives, i have tabled an amendment to article 15 (4) of the weee directive inserting a new subparagraph based on a similar clause in article 52 of the relatively recent ec directive 99/31 on the landfill of waste.
in the present climate the storage of beef for later sale will hot help to reduce volume, and do little for consumer confidence.
finally, it would be wrong to draw panic conclusions – as mr sturdy already said – on the long-term sustainability of europe's beef sector during this very depressed period resulting from the bse and foot-and-mouth crises.
i welcome the study by merrill lynch, one of the largest banks in the united states, which shows that ireland is leading the european league in terms of the sustainability of pension payments.
we need an accountable europe that makes human rights a core value and brings progress on social and environmental rights also.
commissioner, president-in-office of the council, it is not and can never be a choice between employment or the environment.
on the contrary, it may be observed that there is a clear relationship between the quality of the environment and the wealth of a nation.
throughout the eu and north america recent years have seen dramatic reversals in the pollution of air and water due to technological improvements driven by legislation and societal expectations.
the infrastructure, organisation and technology that are needed for a cleaner environment are all achievable because of the wealth and surpluses of the local economies.
significant environmental pollution of air and water and the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources have become characteristic of the early stages of developing industrial economies, as they were once with us.
environmental protection requires surpluses, education and vision together with institutional maturity and stability.
a strong lobby in favour of environmental protection is a good and necessary part of any mature democratic society.
likewise, environmental orthodoxies must be constantly scrutinised and re-evaluated to ensure that the protection required is proportionate and effective.
environmental scaremongering hampers open debate by inflating a stateable risk, for example the presence of a toxin, so that it becomes an inaccurately perceived threat, for example by failing to acknowledge that the quantity of the toxin falls significantly below any threatening dose.
i believe that great sensitivity, tolerance and compassion must be employed whenever it is proposed to employ the environmental standards of a developed economy to the economies and environments of emerging economies.
the eu’s history has shown that localised overloading of environmental carrying capacity can be a temporary phase of an emerging economy.
some of them are: ireland cannot be part of the enhanced cooperation because of its policies on corporate taxation and energy; the future loss of the veto, the only sure way for a small country to influence decisions and protect its interests; the european union is also facing a threat to ireland's neutrality in an increasingly militarised europe, which the treaty of nice provides for an army, called the rapid reaction force, associated with nato and, for the first time, a military command structure within the eu.
- as a member of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, i hope that the us government and the european union can reach an appropriate agreement that will ensure a sustainable reduction in the level of greenhouse gases.
the fact is that the higher the use of greenhouse gases, the greater the impact on climate change, which in turn will have devastating effects on coastal and island communities, not only in europe, but all over the world.
i am well aware of the european union's preparations for the world summit on sustainable development to be held in south africa in 2002. i support the four lines of action developed by the european commission in preparation for this world summit.
the european union's objective will be to protect natural resources, the basis of economic development, to strive to promote environmental efficiency, to promote the sustainable use of water bodies and energy, and to ensure that the vicious circle of poverty and environmental degradation is broken.
environmental pressures have increased, and poverty continues to spread around the world.
we must all redouble our efforts to ensure that next year's summit meets the challenge of ensuring that development is sustainable and protects existing communities.
the fifth community environment action programme protects citizens from the harmful effects of air pollution.
since it is clear that the long-term objective set by the fifth environment action programme will not be easily achieved, the commission has rightly decided to adopt a phased approach setting so-called mid-term environmental objectives for 2010. in this respect, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy will continue to play an important coordinating role.
- as a member of the european parliament, i hope that the united states government and the european union can reach an adequate agreement to ensure a sustainable reduction in the level of greenhouse gases.
the fact is that the higher the use of greenhouse gases, the greater the impact on climate change, which in turn will have devastating effects on coastal and island communities, not only in europe, but all over the world.
i am well aware of the european union's preparations for the world summit on sustainable development to be held in south africa in 2002. i support the four lines of action developed by the european commission in preparation for this world summit.
the european union's objective will be to protect natural resources, the basis of economic development, to strive to promote environmental efficiency, to promote the sustainable use of water bodies and energy, and to ensure that the vicious circle of poverty and environmental degradation is broken.
environmental pressures have increased, and poverty continues to spread around the world.
we must all redouble our efforts to ensure that next year's summit meets the challenge of ensuring that development is sustainable and protects existing communities.
the fifth community environment action programme protects citizens from the harmful effects of air pollution.
since it is clear that the long-term objective set by the fifth environment action programme will not be easily achieved, the commission has rightly decided to adopt a phased approach setting so-called mid-term environmental objectives for 2010.
madam president, i should like to say that it is a decision made by the irish people, whether we like it or not, and i do not particularly like it.
today's proposal aims to clarify the eu-wide general principles of food law and i would like to compliment the rapporteur, mr whitehead, both on his excellent report and on the consensual style with which he has carried out his duties in the committee on the environment.
i have tabled amendment no 72 to article 40 which deals with responsibility of farmers for food safety and adds a force majeure defence for phenomena over which farmers have no personal control, for example natural disasters and major environmental pollution.
mr president, the main thrust of this directive is to set targets for the levels of ozone which will be permitted in ambient air within the european union.
we can all recall that the kyoto accord sets down a timetable for the reduction in the level of the use of greenhouse gases.
this is highly regrettable because, in the eyes of many, it is felt that the targets set by the kyoto accord will not even achieve the goal of substantially reducing the use of greenhouse gases.
the clear scientific evidence is that climate change is real, is happening now, and will get worse.
emissions from the developed world are the primary reason for global warming.
developed countries must take the first meaningful steps in reducing emissions.
the european union is determined to play its part in reaching our targeted 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions below 1990 levels over this decade.
i hope that the us president will come up with a firm proposal to outline how his administration intends to reduce the level of greenhouse gases in the immediate future.
there is unequivocal scientific evidence about the damage which has been done to many communities as the ozone layer is being depleted.
extensive production of greenhouse gases is resulting in the depletion of the ozone layer which, in turn, is resulting in higher sea levels, contributing to greater coastal erosion, greater flooding and the elimination of many of our island communities.
that is why it is so important that we all guarantee that we reduce the level of greenhouse gas emissions in europe, the united states of america and elsewhere so as to achieve our objective in this regard.
i also acknowledge and salute the defence which you, together with the european commission, have mounted on the climate-change issue.
it is important that, in the transatlantic dialogue, we continue to champion the values and the desire for sustainability that we all share and believe in.
the european leaders in göteborg will address two primary subjects, namely the enlargement of the european union and how best to solve many of our environmental problems.
it is very timely, therefore, that this summit will be addressing key environmental issues which need to be tackled, both within the union and in a more global context.
the fact of the matter is that we need to reduce the level of greenhouse gases that are being produced in europe and in the united states.
this is very important if we are to ensure a halt to the depletion of the ozone layer.
statements from mr jospin and commissioner prodi during the campaign did not help, but the responsibility for investing time and energy in the campaign lay primarily with our government, and it failed.
there were some good things in it, on enlargement and sustainability; but in relation to defence policy, i just could not accept the idea of welcoming the rapid reaction force and wanting it to be operational before the end of 2001. i do not support the militarisation of europe.
in fact, according to information available from studies carried out by the irish road hauliers' association it would increase the number of vehicles on the road and would neither reduce congestion nor lessen environmental damage.
the measures we are dealing with today aim at the effective protection of european waters against the risk of accidents at sea and marine pollution.
we must also ensure that there is full and proper application of all aspects of maritime safety regulations in order to afford maximum protection for all those working in the sector, as well as to protect properly inhabitants of coastal areas and the coastal environment.
in conclusion, it is essential that whatever regulation we adopt aims at an exemplary level of safety in sea transport and the prevention of pollution in our seas.
coming from a maritime region of the union, i am acutely aware of the preciousness of our marine resources and the need for sustainable activities, which assure these resources for future generations.
when oil prices rise we conserve energy, when they fall we do not.
energy saving and the rational use of energy must be part of our strategy for security of supply.
around 20% of production could be saved simply by using energy-saving windows.
oil is a costly, non-renewable energy source, which should not be used wastefully.
i therefore support the commission's proposal to submit to the göteborg council a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources aimed at more efficient energy use.
here the emphasis on biofuels and renewable energies is most welcome.
energy consumption in the transport sector is our greatest problem.
the green group cannot, however, agree that nuclear energy is safe or an acceptable replacement for oil.
instead, let us have the same kind of investment in renewable energy that we have seen in nuclear energy over the past 40 years.
i am pleased that the qualification has an environmental requirement.
there has been an enormous improvement in the environmental profile of the rural of countryside, resulting from farmer participation in the rural environmental protection scheme and the environmental requirements of a reformed cap.
we would recommend that the final version of the compliance protocol establish a modern and open verification regime capable of adjusting to changes in political climate and in technological capabilities.
i would prefer to take this money and spend it in the regions concerned, in spain, portugal or france, and spend it in such a way that we have direct control over the development we promote and in a way that we could be sure would be sustainable – for fish farming or alternative industries, perhaps.
i am particularly pleased that the presidency succeeded in putting sustainable development at the core of european politics.
i would argue that sustainable development and employment are part and parcel of the social dimension of the european union.
it has already been mentioned that the conference for climate change will be held in bonn from 16-27 july 2001. we know that the us government and the european union could not reach agreement in the netherlands before christmas on setting a timetable for the reduction of the use of greenhouse gases.
there is clear and unequivocal scientific evidence that demonstrates the effect of climate change.
surely, the us and the european union governments can agree on one item, and that is simply that the use of greenhouse gases depletes the ozone layer which results in higher sea levels and more coastal erosion, and affects the living environment of island communities.
i am calling on the european governments which will be represented in bonn to use this conference as an opportunity to tell the us that this is not good enough, and that the full provisions of the kyoto agreement must be implemented: under the agreement alone, the us government would be required to cut emissions by approximately one-third by the year 2012.
i should like to thank the president-in-office for her willingness to go over time and take extra questions.
one of the very important things in this report is the need for a future directive on mining waste.
it should cover both operational and abandoned sites and disposal and contain provisions for mining waste action programmes as well as provisions to facilitate more sustainable extraction: site cleaning, waste reduction, and dry-tailing disposal in the case of metal mining waste.
we really need an extremely tight clampdown on how mining industries operate and a future directive on mining waste is extremely important.
– mr president, the principles of integrated coastal zone management are accepted worldwide as a mechanism to enable sustainable management of coastal areas.
chapter 17 of agenda 21 commits coastal signatories to integrated management and sustainable development of coastal areas.
the eu’s demonstration programme on integrated management of coastal zones, funded by life, has proved that implementation of integrated coastal zone management results in both economic and environmental benefits.
through good practices of coastal zone management, we should work towards sustainable management of the coastal zone.
in relation to environmental protection, it is extremely important that the eu is given some sort of control.
when it comes to environmental issues we need an international approach.
as everyone knows, environmental issues cross all boundaries.
the draft recommendation leaves out a very important issue in that it fails to identify the threatened biodiversity of our coastal zones.
another issue is climate change.
we can no longer ignore threats from climate change on coastal erosion.
everyone, at this stage, will recognise that climate change is having a major impact on our coastal areas.
i wish that they would take into consideration the international aspects of this in relation to the immense social and environmental problems that will be caused.
in an increasingly globalised business environment, the arrival of the se is timely.
companies must be afforded the flexibility they need to stay lean and move swiftly in a highly competitive environment.
key chapters of discussions which it was said will be opened during the belgian presidency include competition policy, transport, energy, taxation, customs union, veterinary and hygiene aspects of agriculture, fisheries, justice and home affairs, and financial control.
over the past decade, ireland has gradually reduced its tax burden, leading to increased employment, an increase in the budget surplus and continued sustainable growth.
this does not just concern major oil companies, it also concerns other european multinationals which ignore their responsibilities for human rights, for the environment and for basic civil liberties.
these objectives were to reduce nitrogen emissions, noise emissions and barriers to transport safety.
consequently, despite some reductions in harmful emissions linked to technical improvements in the trucks, we have seen an overall increase in co2 emissions.
to achieve the objectives initially set for a sustainable reduction in emissions of harmful substances, we also need a limitation in the volume of lorry transit passages.
it is obvious that hydrogen energy represents an alternative to fossil fuels, but there are other possible alternatives, such as bio-energy, which is relevant to sustainable land use.
the amendments to this directive, which were voted and passed by the environment committee, will have a major impact on public health.
commissioner byrne, i would like to put a question specifically to you and maybe you could answer it in your reply: do the amendments which were passed in the environment committee violate eu law, particularly various sections of article 152?
environmental complaints are also made on major developments where it is felt that their impact on the environment and the livelihoods of people in the areas affected is being ignored by the developers and in some cases by the authorities concerned.
i note with satisfaction that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has no objections to the revised procedure.
i also welcome the recent decision of the committee on the environment to restate that this draft directive should be strengthened into a framework directive out of which further, more detailed and specific legislation can follow, in other words, daughter directives.
a one-size-fits-all policy in relation to environmental noise and the different transport sectors, not to mention differing circumstances in member states, is not satisfactory legislation.
it is even more extraordinary because ispat was a plant which recycled scrapped steel: the objective of the new research fund is to improve environmental standards and the impact of the steel industry on the environment, and here was a company that was actually doing that.
this is totally unacceptable, particularly at a time when energy installations, both nuclear and non-nuclear, could be a focus of terror attacks.
finally, the expiry of the ecsc treaty after 50 years reminds us that the euratom treaty, which has also existed outside the democratic scrutiny and control of this parliament, is an anomaly as more and more member states are moving away from nuclear energy and towards new forms of energy and that this anomaly, which happily will end with the coal and steel community, still continues with the euratom treaty.
in recent months the global economic climate has been the cause of some concern.
the primary objective of the irish budget and stability programme is the continuation of sustainable economic growth, supported by moderate inflation and competitive wage developments, reflecting our national agreement with the social partners known as the programme for prosperity and fairness.
instead of closing the sellafield nuclear plant on safety, environmental and economic grounds, the british governments has agreed to the expansion of operations there.
in this climate this is simply not good enough.
but over the next few weeks the commission should and must carry out a full and independent evaluation of all the environmental public health risks of all operations of bnfl at the sellafield nuclear plant.
this sellafield nuclear plant has achieved nothing, except to heap environmental misery on us all.
the report states that an act of malice – and this was presented to us before september – could initiate a sequence of events that release radioactive material in the liquid high-level waste tanks, in sellafield in particular, with effects much greater and more devastating than chernobyl.
but clearly the european commission should and must carry out an independent evaluation of all the environmental and public health risks, not just for ireland and for all the uk but for all the people of europe.
- this proposal aims to ensure that opportunities are provided for public participation at an early and decisive stage of environmental decision-making.
this includes public participation, as well as the development of certain plans and programmes, increased participation in procedures concerning the implementation of environmental impact assessment declarations, and the establishment of integrated pollution prevention and control measures.
such provisions should be integrated into the directives on waste and on the protection of waters against nitrate pollution, and should be included in the directives on hazardous waste, copper packaging, air quality and landfill of waste.
we are also all aware that eu regulations and directives are now under constant environmental review.
we must ensure that a balance is struck between protecting our environment and economic progress at all times.
we talk a lot about the sustainability of european agriculture.
those who take pleasure in pointing out that agriculture takes up almost 50% of the budget should keep in mind that this general support is as much a subsidy to consumers as it is support for the farming community – the people who are expected to guarantee food supply and quality and at the same time maintain the rural environment.
for instance, the fao code of conduct provides that states should take measures to prevent or eliminate excess fishing capacity and should ensure that levels of fishing effort are in line with sustainable use of fisheries resources.
of course, sustainable fishing is one of the leading principles of the common fisheries policy.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– mr president, on behalf of the environment committee, i welcome mr maat's excellent report.
it does not go as far as the environment committee would have wished, particularly in relation to the duration of travel – the environment committee would have preferred four hours – however, if eight hours is complied with, it will be a really welcome advance in animal welfare.
do you consider that even at this stage a full european-backed environmental impact assessment should be carried out?
mr president, we are all aware that the european union is highly dependent on external energy sources and has very limited scope to influence energy supply conditions.
the broader international community has not covered itself in glory in the efforts to ensure that the depletion of the ozone layer is stopped.
this report refers to the fact that nuclear energy in europe will be playing a less significant role, following the decisions by five member states to phase out the use of nuclear energy in the future.
its liabilities for cleaning up after the closure of nuclear plants and the disposal of nuclear waste will be up to gbp 34 billion, while it has gbp 235m worth of shareholders' funds on its balance sheet.
i received a briefing from my own department of the environment in ireland today, bemoaning the fact that it was going to be very difficult for ireland.
that is only because ireland has done nothing about the waste problem or about packaging.
it is now clearly established that the eu-assisted programmes, such as leader, have the potential to create sustainable employment in rural areas where more centralised programmes would have failed.
delays in this area are leading to confusion on the part of consumers and may well be depriving european agriculture of the tools necessary for sustainability, quality and competitiveness.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his hard work and for the many additions to the commission's proposals, particularly on health and disease and sustainable transport.
our citizens will want to know why we want to spend more on space research than on sustainable transport.
regarding energy, equivalent funding for renewables and nuclear is required.
we have allocated over eur 1 billion for nuclear funding and nowhere near the equivalent for renewable energy.
is she aware that its liabilities for cleaning up after the closure of nuclear plants and the disposal of nuclear waste run to gbp 34 billion, while it has gbp 235 million worth of shareholders' funds on its balance sheets?
this is a research committee which has commissioned an extensive report on both the sellafield plant and cap la hague plants, and it has raised fairly serious concerns about the emissions to air and water from both the cap la hague and the sellafield plants.
it draws attention to the inadequacy of the commission's capacity to carry out its functions under the euratom treaty, and it has also drawn attention to a german study which has indicated that both the cap la hague and sellafield plants have something like ten times the permitted dispersal-to-air of radioactive pollution.
it still embodies certainty in a difficult economic climate.
i commend the rapporteur, mr whitehead, and the shadow rapporteur, mr bowis, for a job well done throughout the discussion in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
i would, however, like to salute the work the commission has done this year and to acknowledge the enormous progress in the preparation of the launch of the euro; the very substantial progress on enlargement which we very much welcome; the work which is being done in south-eastern europe; the break-through on the world trade organisation and the very stimulating programme on sustainable development.
there was consensus between the environment committee and the agriculture committee on the reduction of the overall journey time and distance.
the environmental impact of pirate fishing vessels is virtually impossible to evaluate as by definition data on catches are non-existent or, at the very best, unreliable.