- madam president, in these days, and even at this hour, there are reports of an increase in cases of very serious diseases affecting young military personnel and many civilians, diseases linked to radioactive pollution caused by the use of weapons with depleted uranium warheads.
i believe, madam president, that first of all we can all express our deepest condolences to the families of the young military men, european civilians and citizens of the republic of yugoslavia for the death of their loved ones as a result of the radioactive pollution produced by nato bombs.
think about it, the sensitivity to culture and the environment has changed a lot in the meantime.
let's think about the definition of sustainable development that's in vogue today.
do you sometimes waste european money? "
- oral question (b5-0556/2000) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy to the commission on the poor implementation of certain environmental directives (pcbs and pcts, habitats, nitrates).
the difficulties encountered by the committee on the environment in these three reports are indeed not limited to the three directives chosen but extend to all ec environmental directives.
the commission, and not least the environment dg are aware of these difficulties and have for some time devoted efforts to improve their performance in this field and i can assure you that next week when the commission discusses the sixth environmental action programme the whole implementation issue will be a very important point in that programme.
since 1997 specific initiatives have been pursued on a number of fronts including environmental liability, which of course will put pressure on the member states to follow the existing rules and regulations; complaints and investigations procedures at national level where we have been involved in playing a consultancy role; access to justice, magistrates' training courses – also very important because this is also about education – and the publication of this annual survey on the implementation of environmental law.
just last week the european parliament and the council, as mrs jackson said, reached an agreement on a recommendation which will establish minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states.
all these initiatives are intended to increase the level of knowledge of and compliance with european community and environmental law.
we have to look for new ways to encourage the proper transposition and application of environmental legislation.
greater public awareness at these levels would lead to closer scrutiny and to public demand for effective implementation of environmental legislation.
we must remain vigilant and active to ensure that the situation improves and i would like to confirm to the european parliament my personal commitment and that of my services to ensuring the highest possible level of compliance with european community environmental law.
i would like to emphasize two aspects of this story: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment as a whole.
the mistake is that environmental investment is ultimately seen as an imposed obligation, an unnecessary additional cost.
but the environment is our future and we cannot rely on the will of the people alone, or even on the punitive power of the court of justice alone, to defend it.
i also agree that if the fifth environmental action programme has focused mainly on a sectoral approach to environmental policy, perhaps in thinking ahead to the sixth environmental action programme we should instead place greater emphasis on involving the social and economic actors, as well as local authorities, in achieving the objectives defined from time to time, so that the protection of our environment becomes increasingly an element to be integrated into overall planning.
in this context, it will be important to ensure, as we say in our motion for a resolution, that the best and worst results achieved by the member states in implementing environmental directives are widely disseminated, including via the internet, in order to highlight the different commitments made by each of them in this area and to subject the behaviour of the member states to the judgment of public opinion, which is almost always even more effective than that of the court of justice.
in order to facilitate monitoring and comparison between the different situations, i think it is even more important to continue to deepen research on common environmental indicators.
environmental protection knows no national boundaries and is a paramount area of community action.
the natural environment is a common asset and our commitment to the objectives must be able to set an example for the candidate countries, which are so laboriously engaged in the difficult task of restoring often very serious degradation situations.
may i remind you that, as of today, 45% of all the complaints are on environmental issues and cases – 700 complaints, 30% of the infringements – about 400 – are on environmental cases.
mr sacconi's point was that we need the good examples of what economic gains can be made from complying with environmental legislation.
we have to be better at assessing the results of compliance with environmental legislation.
what we have done, which is very effective, is to establish the link between european funding and compliance with environment legislation.
i hope for the european parliament's support and backing in our further attempts to improve the implementation of our european community environmental legislation.
i believe that if this debate gives us some signals in this direction, we can really begin to build the scaffolding for a new building of european agriculture based on young people, which, moreover, would not mean the abandonment and oblivion of those who are looking for alternative possibilities in the new environmental and multifunctional opportunities.
we must examine - as the commissioner said earlier, and i agree with her entirely - what the environmental situation was on the ground before, but also, certainly with great care, what the cause and effect relationship is between the material used - the weapons - and the consequences for health.
it is therefore right to develop in a coordinated way all the scientific investigations necessary to clarify the impact of this type of munitions on health and the environment, but in the meantime it is also right to apply the precautionary principle, which is never more appropriate than on this occasion, which is why the moratorium is an urgent and indispensable measure.
the report was born, as is well known, of a commission green paper of 1995, which called for measures to internalize external environmental, safety and congestion costs, in order to make the charging of transport infrastructure costs to users more fair and efficient.
the rapporteur is satisfied with the substantial agreement reached on the basic principles of the report, namely that it is up to the community to establish a common methodology for calculating transport costs; that external costs should be included in such assessments; whereas the revenue should be used to reduce environmental damage and to promote alternative and less polluting modes of transport; whereas implementation should be subject to the principle of subsidiarity; whereas users and polluters should contribute in proportion to their use of the infrastructure; and that exceptions should be made for the least mobile members of our society and people living in rural areas.
development must be compatible with human dignity and with the protection of the environment and health.
the protection of the environment and health, dignity for workers, safeguarding the quality of products in defence of consumers and a free market as a right, attention to the cultural specificities and architectural traditions of each country and of doc products, prohibition for us europeans to use partnership relations in an outrageous way, exporting to those countries products that we have banned because they are dangerous, encouragement to the development of all the potential of our mediterranean societies, including through aid for the employment of thousands and thousands of young people who have studied and specialised in europe.
a new policy of triangulation of trade, the safeguarding of typical products, including those of europe, by condemning and preventing counterfeiting and fraud, food and environmental security, the development of craft specificities and programmes against desertification and for the purification of drinking water and tourist development are some of the many points we have touched upon.
at the political level, the presidency aims to promote democracy and human rights, economic, social and environmental progress, gender equality and the fight against all forms of discrimination.
our moroccan friends remind us that agriculture means keeping people in the countryside, keeping jobs, keeping the environment.
thirdly, the definition of sustainable maritime transport policies in the mediterranean, which will become a key point, either of danger or of great development, both for the north and for the south of the basin.
finally, mr president, what concerns me most is apartheid, a word which would have no citizenship rights if we were talking about the middle east and the palestinian question, but which unfortunately belongs to the climate we are forced to accept: i suspect that in that region, life has different parameters and prices between arabs and israelis.
it is equally clear that no one has done an environmental impact study on what it means to incinerate hundreds of thousands of tonnes of animal flour.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on energy-saving labelling for computers in the office.
i explained to my retired friend giuseppe rossi, who accompanied me to the airport when i left bergamo for brussels, that this regulation is intended to save energy when employees leave the offices and leave the computer on, by implementing the so-called sleep-mode.
the purpose of all this - as has already been mentioned by my colleagues - is to streamline the work of updating existing community legislation to international provisions and conventions on maritime safety and protection of the marine environment, as well as to technical progress.
that being said, we ask that this committee reflect, in its title and mandate, both the concepts of maritime safety and pollution prevention.
we therefore call for greater transparency and greater information for the future committee on maritime safety and pollution prevention.
we have heard talk of market liberalisation, privatisation and, at the same time, sustainable development and environmental degradation, and you can see the stark contradiction when you talk about liberalisation on the one hand and sustainable development on the other: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
of these two and a half million jobs, for example, i do not know how many went to italy and, in particular, to southern italy, where the employment problem is very serious and where, if we wished, we could - this is my suggestion, but it could be considered carefully - think about combining the problems of sustainable development with those of solving the employment problem: i am referring to the possibility of encouraging young people to enter the world of work with a minimum entry wage, for example for the purpose of reorganizing the hydrogeological area.
there has been too much delay in the action of governments since the first complaints many years ago about mad cow, glued steak, dioxin chicken and all the food fraud that has turned out to be not only fraud in trade but ecological and health bombs.
it is enough to consider the procedures for granting authorizations, particularly in terms of transparency and accessibility to the public, which is essential if research is to be able to carry out the necessary experiments in a non-hostile environment.
or we can think about assessing and monitoring the cumulative effects on the environment, as well as the phase-out of antibiotic resistance markers.
- mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, on behalf of the radical bonino list members, i express my strong support for the directive on the voluntary release of gmos into the environment.
it has been three years - too many - since the santer commission, under the impetus of emma bonino and ritt bjerregaard, then commissioners for consumers and the environment, presented the proposal to amend the old directive 90/220/eec, which then led to the text under discussion today, which we shall vote on tomorrow.
the elements of important innovation, environmental risk assessment, risk monitoring were recalled; the new legislation also incorporates the precautionary principle, the ideological and extensive application of which, as is too often proposed, would have the paradoxical effect of paralysing not only research and innovation in the agri-food sector but also commonly accepted aspects of our way of life, as the italian minister for health, umberto veronesi, a scientist before he became a minister, recalled in recent days.
- the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment.
we must remember that all those transgenic plants which are put on the market and in the environment have these markers, so that a double truth is created, and the double truths are always lies.
- the next item is the report (a5-0033/2001) by mr garcía-orcoyen tormo, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council allowing voluntary participation by organisations in a community environmental management and audit system (emas) [c5-0661 - 1998/0303 (cod) ].
the emas regulation which you are considering will set up a solid environmental management system capable of allowing organisations in many activity sectors to have a better environmental performance.
it will provide an appropriate answer to the necessity of making both private and public sectors aware of their responsibilities towards our environment on which their activities have an impact.
last, but not least, the emas regulation will lead to the disclosure of reliable environmental information and provide for interaction between different interest groups.
this will be good for the environment and beneficial to the credibility of the european institutions.
- the next item is the report (a5-0025/2001) by mrs emilia franziska müller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to food supplements.
this is evident from the number of amendments that were tabled in the environment committee and the number of additional amendments tabled for parliament.
a5-0015/2001 by mr lange, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 97/24/ec on certain components and characteristics of two or three-wheel motor vehicles (com (2000) 314 - c5-0334/2000 - 2000/0136 (cod)).
- mr president, the proposal for a directive we are about to vote on represents a concrete step forward in the union's desire to pursue ambitious objectives in the field of limiting air pollution.
we are in fact faced with a paradox today: although motorcycles account for only 2-3% of the total transport volume, their share of total emissions is increasing.
the amendments proposed by mr lange, as well as virtually all those adopted in the committee on the environment, improve the commission's proposal.
in particular, the insistence on the definition of specifically calibrated test cycles for motor vehicles and units throughout europe, but also the request to submit type approval to the confirmation of the functionality of pollution control devices, are signs of the european parliament's willingness to take firm action in such a sensitive area.
this means that mr lange has been able to negotiate well with them and that the producers are also becoming more aware of their duty to contribute to improving our environmental conditions.
we will make a separate proposal on this subject by the end of 2002. the future proposal will build on further studies looking at the technical performance and economic feasibility of improved emissions reduction devices.
in this next step, the emissions shall be measured in relation to the improved test cycle.
the commission recognises their importance in ensuring that emissions are effectively reduced while driving.
this refers to amendments nos 6, 13, 14, 15, 20 and 22. the same commission position applies to amendments nos 8 and 17 on co2 emissions from motorcycles.
i listened with particular interest to mr bullmann's report on parliament's contribution to the stockholm meeting and i particularly welcome the overall view of the report, namely that all parts of the agenda launched in lisbon must be implemented if europe is to achieve the ambitious goal we have set itself, namely that within ten years europe will be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, with the potential for sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
unemployment is a gigantic waste of economic resources and, what is worse, of human skills and ambitions.
it also requires a business climate that facilitates investment and the establishment of new growth companies.
i believe that if we are to talk about concrete things to be done and not high-sounding objectives to be proposed, for example on the subject of pension reforms, parliament should make its voice heard much more firmly, much more decisively, much more rigorously and urgently call for a reform that leads to pension systems that are financially sustainable and less inequitable in terms of the balance between the generations.
- madam president, the bonino list voted in favour of this directive on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms.
it is time that european environmental legislation was taken seriously.
the damage caused by the carelessness of recent years and the unwillingness of governments to respect the environment has brought us to the terrible, bad situation we are in.
i believe that the directives and regulations which respect the environment should be binding and that we cannot rely on the voluntary and goodwill of the companies to comply with these rules.
- madam president, i have followed the report by mrs emilia franziska müller very closely, including in the committee on the environment.
i encourage the commission and the union to pursue this 'good' full employment which we want to find for europe, in the sense of being able to respect environmental and social constraints, by following the method hitherto used of forcing the formation of the single market, whether by meaning validly, in this perspective, enlargement, which must be considered not only as an additional cost for the union but as an opportunity which creates the opportunity for wider markets, in which the method hitherto followed can be better developed, or by progressively liberalising the old markets.
the approach to market regulation should be geared to the future market environment, where conditions will be highly competitive and differentiated, with a rapid spread of innovative services and geared to the application of competition law, replacing ex ante rules, which are defined from time to time.
finally, the environmental impact.
the community institutions, as well as national and local authorities, have a duty to reduce as far as possible this impact on the landscape and the environment.
in order to safeguard the importance of competition in the telecommunications market and its development, all policy-makers at all levels have a duty to seek regulatory solutions that allow the optimisation of the use of the currently available infrastructures, taking into account the environmental landscape impact and the socio-cultural consequences for citizens.
however, we would first like to point out that there is a serious contradiction in the electronic telecommunications sector which, if left unaddressed, could ultimately render any effort to create a competitive environment for the benefit of consumers useless.
finally, i would also like to thank my colleagues on the other committees: i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the situation in the community in the field of the environment.
the report is based on a number of fundamental principles: the restoration of the natural balance with a view to protecting the environment; the protection of the food chain, to protect the ecosystem; the protection of biodiversity; the search for a self-sufficient subsistence economy; the limits on industrial monocultures which constitute an exploitation; and then, the restoration of the natural balance also with regard to anthropological progress and responsible relations between man and woman, between adult and child, between worker and elderly person, starting from a social embryo which is represented by man, woman, children.
i am sure that mr jackson, the chairman of the committee on the environment, envies mr varela suanzes-carpegna, who is chairman of the committee on fisheries.
because mr jackson, with all his enthusiasm, has not been able to get a directive on environmental controls through, which has remained a mere recommendation.
commission mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr schwaiger and the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy for this very good report.
like us, you want to frame trade liberalisation within a commonly accepted set of multilateral rules, you want to ensure greater transparency in the wto negotiating mechanisms, you want to improve the integration of developing countries into the multilateral system, you want to preserve our european model in the fields of agriculture and public health, you want to do the same in the fields of the environment or public services: this is basically a summary of the european union's agenda for the new round of negotiations.
thirdly, you want to safeguard the european agricultural model, given its multiple functions in social, environmental and food matters, and this is something that franz fischler and i fully agree on.
let us have a look at the list of those other forms of aid providing an incentive effect to eu shipyards which are still there after 1 january 2001 under council regulation 1540: aid for environmental protection in line with the general community guidelines for such aid, aid for research and development in line with the general community framework for such aid and i have already underlined this, aid for innovation which is not allowed in any other industrial sector except the automobile sector, regional investment aid for upgrading and modernising existing yards, but not involving the creation of new capacity, subject to certain caps below the normal regional aid ceilings, aid for rescue and restructuring in line with the general community guidelines for such aid, subject to certain stricter provisions, aid for partial and total closures contingent on genuine and irreversible reductions of capacity.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the purpose of this mechanism is to support the sustainable functioning of the asylum system while ensuring a coherent link with access to the normal asylum procedure and the geneva convention.
there are only mother tongues, and they shape the individual and his environment.
- mr commissioner, i would like to know whether all these projects, revised and perhaps corrected, have really been in line with environmental impact studies to give us reassurance.
has the commission really ensured that the environment is not damaged at a time when it should be protected?
other questions concern scientific research into bse, the disposal of tens of thousands of carcasses of animals, slaughtered and burned, the methods of slaughter, which often take place with little regard for the animals themselves and the environment.
and last but not least, the pollution of the mediterranean and other seas.
mr president, i voted against the jackson report on the conciliation on environmental inspections.
i wonder again why we cannot have a directive on the control of environmental inspections.
this simply means that our states do not want to be controlled in the application of community environmental rules.
- mr president, the charming and beautiful mrs korhola, the rapporteur of this document, has produced a good document on environmental information, or rather on public access to environmental information, which i voted in favour of because it is right to give information.
but the question came to me: i think it is very important that europeans have all the information about the environment, but i think it is just as important, if not more important, especially for older people, to be informed about pension rights in our countries.
while we have previously thought about heating the drivers of the trains, this document, which seeks to improve energy efficiency in the european community - and i voted in favour of it - also includes everything that saves energy, such as - and i hope this is a good thing to say - district heating in the cities.
a great deal of energy can be saved by district heating, because with one boiler you could heat the homes of ten, twenty, a hundred, a thousand people who live in the city.
this would also be the way to define in a coordinated way the presence of monetary union as such in institutional decision-making bodies such as the monetary fund or the world development bank and, moreover, the relations of the euro area with third countries, in particular with the countries producing raw materials and energy sources: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must say that we share the spirit in which the commission has drawn up this communication on electoral assistance and monitoring, namely the principle that the promotion of genuine democracies is not only an ethical imperative but also a condition for sustainable development and lasting peace, it is a specific mandate of the union under the treaties, it is the foundation of our foreign policy.
recent reports drawn up by the european business association, the oecd and private bodies concentrate on the overall investment climate.
as stated in the excellent report before us, energy sector reform is absolutely crucial for economic stability and growth in ukraine.
together with our international partners we are following ukraine's progress in reforming the energy sector very closely and we are providing substantial assistance in close cooperation with the ukrainian authorities.
we are predicting the climate in 20 years' time, we are worried about how many people will die from bse, but do you really think, madam president, that we did not know that our lives would be extended?
- mr president, the green paper on the environmental problems of pvc, which we are discussing today, was presented by the commission in july 2000, in line with the provisions of the end-of-life vehicle directive, which introduces a new method involving the responsibility of producers for the entire life cycle of the product, from its conception to its disposal.
although it does not directly address the question of the production or use of pvc, it clearly raises a number of questions concerning the disposal of waste, which end up directly affecting the product itself.
although pvc has been the subject of intense debate in recent years and some of its characteristics, such as its high chlorine content, make it particularly difficult to manage once it has become waste, my report does not seek to blame it on other plastics.
i am convinced that the implementation of truly sustainable development cannot be achieved without dialogue and cooperation with business.
as regards the first point, i would just like to stress how important the phasing out of these substances is, in the immediate future, for the health of european citizens but perhaps even more so for the protection of the natural environment.
finally, on the subject of waste disposal, i would like to say that one of the characteristics which make pvc strong, namely its resistance to time, also makes the question of its disposal very complicated.
what i have proposed is to tackle the problem multilaterally: first, increase recycling rates starting from certain applications such as window frames, large pipes and coatings by implementing closed-loop recovery systems; secondly, limiting the incineration of pvc to the new generation of plants, which are able to comply with the new community legislation and apply the 'polluter pays' principle; thirdly, to deposit what remains in the landfill, taking account, again, of the new legislation which will come into force from 2002. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank all the members who, through the amendments tabled in the committee on the environment, have helped to improve my report.
in the long term, environmental and employment policies need to be improved and the emphasis on greening the budget, which has not been taken into account so far, needs to be increased.
- madam president, i voted against the sacconi report on the environmental problems of pvc, which therefore also concern the separate collection of waste.
i would like to say to the house that i have been asked by some pensioners from bergamo to speak on the important subject of separate collection of waste.
they said: "if i am paid double pension, i personally, although i am retired, will go to all the houses in all the villages of our bergamo to collect all the sorted waste, even those containing pvc and whatever else.
the financial markets are prevented from determining the best, most efficient and optimal allocation of control and therefore of the management of companies in very important, crucial, strategic sectors for europe: we are talking about telecommunications, and energy in particular.
this is one of the ways in which the european states, in some countries - i am thinking of italy - are in fact still managing important parts of the country's economy and are preventing companies in these sectors - telecommunications, energy - from being able to compete efficiently in competitive markets, companies able to withstand international competition.
the issues of energy, energy liberalisation and the single patent are fundamental issues.
the palestinian authority must use all its energy to stop the terrorism carried out by palestinian extremists, but from israel the sharon government is not giving any sign of peace: the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area.
we know that in many cases it is rich countries that are dumping toxic waste in poor countries or allowing unclear business, including tourism.
among these, there is no doubt that encouraging sustainable mobility is a historic goal that must be pursued at this time; from this point of view, aid for the use of infrastructure by undertakings, which is intended to compensate for the differences in the unrecoverable internal and external costs of competing modes, must also be accepted.
that is why, pending the commission's proposal - and i am less sceptical here than mr jarzembowski, because i hope, indeed i am sure, that the commission will be able to come up with technical measures and forms which will solve many of the theoretical problems which are still being raised - i believe that the hypothesis, put forward in amendments nos 26, 40 or 48, of an explicit link between state aid and objectives of actually transferring volumes of goods to more sustainable modes of transport should be supported.
in short, i believe that the 'contract' which is envisaged to be temporarily established with those who are actually committed to supporting sustainable mobility is a point which can be used pending more general rules.
we believe that the production of vegetable protein should be given adequate incentives in the interests of the environment, the meat consumer who must be able to rely on the community production chain, and the oilseed production chain which has made specialised investments and is at risk of a sharp fall in employment.
it is a matter of great regret for europeans and for all those who are sincere friends of the united states to see a great country which should be the beacon, not only of economic progress but also of human civilization in all fields, abandon one of the fundamental principles: the environment and health and the world that we leave to our children and heirs tomorrow.
i believe that our macedonian colleagues should be able to look at these proposals for solutions without any taboo, without any fear, because it is through these ways that we can establish a climate which will allow the two great peoples of macedonia to live together.
we could very well debate energy policy, but i think we should avoid that today and concentrate instead on how to improve nuclear safety in the candidate countries and, of course, how to continue to cooperate with ukraine and russia.
these questions also illustrate the nature and character of environmental problems.
we're still vulnerable, we still have a waste problem.
you know where i stand on the use of nuclear energy, but although i am critical of it, i believe that research on safety matters must continue, i believe it is terribly important.
we must cooperate with the member states on these issues and we must do everything because we share the same environment and we are all exposed to risks if we live with safety levels that are not acceptable.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0118/2001), drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies [14780/1/2000 - c5-0048/2001 - 1998/0323 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs roth-behrendt).
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0125/2001) by mrs jillian evans, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on animal health conditions governing the non-commercial movement of pet animals (com (2000) 529 - c5-0477/2000 - 2000/0221 (cod)).
– mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mrs evans, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for their report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the animal health requirements applicable to non-commercial movements of pet animals.
i am aware from other proposals brought before parliament that there is a general reluctance in parliament and in the environment committee to support article 37 as a legal base for provisions in conjunction with article 152, probably because article 37 is not a co-decision article.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0119/2001) by mrs doyle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the availability of veterinary medicinal products (com (2000) 806 - c5-0105/2001 - 2001/2054 (cos)).
– on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank mrs doyle and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for this report.
the first is the extension of the obligation to apply the maximum levels of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide to cigarettes intended for third country markets.
this measure was the focus of the debate in the committee on the environment first and then in the plenary.
- the environment committee meeting was held in this room last night.
finally, i would like to make a specific reference to the need to pay greater attention to sustainable development and, specifically, to the environment.
- the next item is the joint debate on two reports by mr florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection: - (a5-0146/2001) on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the limitation of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (com (2000) 347 - c5-0415/2000 - 2000/0159 (cod)) - (a5-0148/2001) on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (com (2000) 347 - c5-014/2000 - 2000/0158 (cod))
in writing.
(fr) mr president, by introducing rules for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment, the european parliament is making a major contribution to the environmentally friendly nature of this industry.
in the end, it was the environment that won the battle between the supporters of an innovative industry in electrical and electronic products and traditional industrialists who were putting the brakes on to delay the date of taking on the recycling of this waste.
while congratulating the rapporteur on his choice of the clean products route, it is regrettable that the commission has not dealt with electrical and electronic waste and the related chemicals at the same time.
the report gives a boost to environmental concerns and demonstrates the growing political awareness of the danger of industrial waste, especially electrical and electronic waste, proliferating.
in the end, everyone will benefit from this forced passage: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
the report by mr florenz on waste electrical and electronic equipment has benefited from significant environmental guarantees, which demonstrate that european industry must be designed for citizens and policies by fostering an ecological culture.
(fr) the european parliament discussed in strasbourg a report by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
the proposed directive provides that the producer or the first importer is responsible for the electrical and electronic waste, which amounts to 16 kilograms per inhabitant in the 15 member states of the european union, a quantity which is expected to double over the next 12 years.
shops, especially in urban areas, often lack a warehouse to store large quantities of waste.
if shops cannot take back waste, other systems, such as recycling areas, must be made available to consumers.
this would make it possible to agree with the state on measures to encourage consumers, for example, to hand over free of charge the waste they currently store in their cellars.
although it is accompanied by amendments such as those expressing ecological concerns or the one proposing the 'introduction of a tobin-type tax on capital movements', the text remains the 'exaltation of anti-worker policies in favour of the bosses conducted by the states, as well as the approval of the current functioning of the economy'.
it seems to me that we can only pursue a policy that is forward-looking if we do indeed promote small and family farms, conservation activities and the cultivation of the soil, including in the form of environmental protection services, especially in sensitive ecological areas, but do not give a significant part of our funding to large farms.
who knows how many environmental disasters we would have spared our marine fauna and flora, our coasts, our fishing fleets and our tourism operators!
who knows how many oil tanker wrecks, how many victims, how much serious pollution we could have avoided on our continent if proper inspections had been carried out!
we believe that this is not only an essential condition for access to the ports of the european union, but also an effective way of applying one of the principles underlying community environmental policy: "the polluter pays".
the summit in gothenburg will be a good opportunity to demonstrate where there is agreement, for example on the balkans and the middle east, and where there is disagreement, whether it be on unilateral action in the un, contributions to the un, the kyoto protocol or environmental issues.
the comments made in the explanatory statement to the peres report are all therefore correct, since they once again stress the need to guarantee farmers' incomes, respect for the geographical area and the specific characteristics of the mediterranean environment, the strong demand to avoid tree aid by favouring production aid, and the promotion of the quality and genuineness of the product to protect consumers.
- madam president, on this document on secure and sustainable pensions i could not help but make a statement of vote.
individual journalists take work where they find it, and adapt to the prevailing climate and ideas in the newsroom, even when they conflict with their own personal ideas.
- mr president, it is very significant that today this house devotes a large part of its agenda to a debate on the future of the union with three reports - hulthén, blokland and myller - which deal with three complementary aspects of the same strategy: the hulthén report sought to outline a more defined scenario for sustainable development.
the vote tomorrow on the sixth programme is only one step in this important project we are undertaking, but it is no less important: the intention of the committee on the environment to strengthen and make the text more binding is the clearest demonstration of our willingness to take concrete steps to protect and improve the environment around us, given the poor results achieved under the fifth action programme.
in this connection, i would draw your attention to amendments nos 52 and 53, which have already been approved by the committee on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
and i am not talking only about the administrators, but also about the economic and social actors and the ordinary citizens, who we must be able to involve in this collective effort in order to be able to make a real leap forward in protecting our environment and thus exert a stronger pressure for the achievement of ambitious goals on a planetary scale.
the requirement to carry out an environmental impact assessment at a very early stage of spatial planning makes it possible to integrate environmental issues fully into the design of spatial planning plans and programmes.
without going into detail, the text adopted clearly states in article 3 the principle that all plans and programmes which may have significant effects on the environment are subject to an environmental assessment.
the climate of cooperation within the committee, to which the rapporteur's work has made a decisive contribution, has also led to other important achievements, such as a more precise definition of what is meant by 'public consultation' and a more precise hierarchy between the different procedures, so as to avoid any risk of unnecessary overburdening of local administrations.
so i went to congratulate him on his election, accompanied by his driver, ugo gustinetti, a pensioner, who said to me: "as a pensioner, i am very much in favour of this report on the natural environment programme because we must breathe clean air.
i often speak to the elderly and pensioners, and so i have also spoken about the environment that we regulate so much here, in this beautiful hall in brussels and in the still more beautiful and larger hall in strasbourg.
they said: "with your relationships, with your environmental programs, you try to breathe good, clean air, you try to have a beautiful landscape, you try to make who feel good?
"well, i see that the goal of a clean environment for the elderly, who are the ones who need it most, is missing from these plans.
if there is a clean environment for the elderly, it will also be clean for young people like you, mr president.
mr blokland has presented a report on the environment and the economy, on the needs of the environment and economic policy.
- mr president, on page 15 of the hulthén report it says: "the sustainable development of the earth's resources is a sine qua non for the future existence of mankind".
it seems to me unwise - and i am referring here to the comments made by some of my colleagues - to think of extending the scope of the agency to include environmental issues and issues of food traditions: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in this respect, i think it is important to stress that the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment make important improvements to the commission's proposal.
each of us has his or her ideal place and it is certainly not the definition of a set of criteria, more or less binding, that will help us to solve the problem, much less the one that fixes the place in the ranking in good environmental practices.
of the 189 amendments in the report of the environment committee and the 26 tabled in plenary, the commission is able to accept well over half fully or in principle.
- the next item is the joint debate on two reports by mrs paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy: - a5-0185/2001 on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on animal health conditions for animal by-products and amending directives 90/425/eec and 92/118/eec (com (2000) 573 - c5-0538/2000 - 2000/0230 (cod)) and - a5-0200/2001 on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the health rules applicable to non-animal by-products intended for human consumption (com (2000) 574 - c5-0539/2000 - 2000/0259 (cod)).
this can be done in a manner which is safe, economic and effective for health and the environment, or it can be done in an unregulated manner, which puts public health and the environment at risk.
i am satisfied that the emerging text gives overriding priority to the need to protect public health and the environment.
the commission proposal already establishes a complete separation during collection and transport of animal waste and a complete separation of plants dedicated to feed production.
we agree to lay down public health requirements for incinerators which are not covered by the scope of directive 2000/76 on the incineration of waste.
we accept the inclusion of catering waste in the scope of the regulation, but we must clarify that such waste is covered by the proposal only when destined to specific purposes in order to avoid duplication within environmental legislation.
we can accept a definition of catering waste, on condition that it covers catering waste from household kitchens, in order to ensure consistency with forthcoming legislation on classical swine fever.
we can accept classifying catering waste as category 3 material, on condition that catering waste from international means of transport comes under the highest risk category 1 and is destroyed as required by existing community legislation.
we cannot accept the proposal to allow the continuation of swill-feeding using catering waste.
it could be challenged in the wto and would have enormous environmental and economic consequences.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0187/2001), drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on ozone in ambient air (c5-0090/2001 -1999/0068 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr davies).
first of all, the question of the environment: the radical party has been raising the issue of the greenhouse effect, the ozone hole and the dangers associated with it for over 15 years.
(applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution on the future gothenburg council because it contains an important point concerning the commitment to have in our europe - so it reads - sustainable pensions which enable those who have worked to live with dignity.
- madam president, i was pleased to vote in favour of this directive on ozone.
ozone, itself, as we know, is an oxygen enrichment, and it is a health fact.
what is unfortunately not healthy is the destruction of a part of the ozone layer that is in the air, resulting in more sunlight and the climate change that we all fear.
i hope therefore that the european union will continue to do its best to combat air pollution.
- madam president, mr fatuzzo rightly speaks of the dangers of ozone to the elderly, but i would like to speak to you about the young.
in fact, madam president, as you know very well, if nothing is done about the greenhouse effect and the hole in the ozone layer, it is the young people, the new generations, who will suffer the most from the dangers of this situation.
- madam president, mr redondo has presented a document which seeks to protect the forests of the european union from fire and pollution.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know the importance of the erika ii package, which aims to improve safety and to prevent environmental disasters from recurring at sea and along the coasts of the european community.
we must ensure that vessels which pose particularly high risks to safety at sea and to the environment are subject to stricter controls.
i agree with the rapporteur when he calls for the member states' powers of intervention to be strengthened as coastal states in the event of a risk of accidents or the threat of pollution.
it does, it does, because last saturday and sunday i was at a conference on renewable energy right here on this beautiful island of gotland, sweden, which is 50 percent renewable energy, so wind, solar, biomass and so on.
i hope that europe will increase its use of renewable energy.
it will be essential to address these issues in order to ensure sustainable peace in the country.
the land is overgrazed, the forests are cut down, the ecological collapse is imminent.
- (it) the series of natural, technological and environmental disasters which regularly strike whole regions of the world has always prompted calls for emergency measures to make civil protection interventions more effective at community level, which has been done through this proposal for a decision which i think i can support.
the cost of the mechanism will be eur 1.5 million per year, allocated to line b4-3300 'community cooperation in civil protection and environmental emergencies', for which there is an alternative legal basis authorising a multiannual programme (2000-2004) with a budget of eur 7.5 million.
i also want to express my appreciation for the determination with which the swedish presidency has held firm to the european position on the environment, has revived the content of the kyoto agreements which are not only important for the rules, but for the original push in favour of scientific research, technological innovation, industrial competition, reading it - as commissioner wallström has recalled - in the framework of the european strategy for sustainable development.
a 'good job' to the swedish presidency, however, for what it has done on both the climate and the court.
i would also like to stress a few points which i consider to be extremely important for the growth of europe: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the union, such as the pension and financial sustainability project, the new round of negotiations on international trade reform, issues related to public health and the use of natural resources in close relation to economic growth.
this is an important measure, which finally sets precise targets for increasing the share of renewable energy with precise timetables.
finally, i would also like to express my approval of the compromise text, and i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs rothe, for her balance and competence on the controversial issue of the incineration of municipal waste.
there is continuity with foreign and defence policy, with the creation of the single currency and with sustainable development, but above all there is the insistence on the relationship between european integration, economic competitiveness and the social agenda.
there were, mr president, because those islands are very windy, devices that convert wind energy into electricity.
that is why i voted for a greater commitment to renewable energy.
- (it) the importance of renewable energies and the increase in their use in europe: these are the rationale behind the provision under consideration at second reading.
i would like to take this opportunity to express my satisfaction with the joint effort which has been made to set the significant target of 12% of electricity produced in europe by renewable energy sources in 2010, which is also beneficial for the environment.
we all know how topical these issues are, especially in relation to climate change.
in this positive sense, it is good that the european union is giving value to the renewable source by definition that is hydroelectric energy by offering security and incentive mechanisms from which certain benefits will also flow to mountain areas, especially where electricity companies will be managed by bodies directly emanating from the local populations.
as with sustainable development, respect for individual rights must become, in a structured way and following a genuine strategy, an integral part of the union's external policy, both in its economic and political relations.
if europe is to emerge credibly as a union based on respect for human rights and on sustainable economic development in solidarity, we must abandon all hypocrisy and ambiguity.
it seems that there is an idea that is circulating that i consider dangerous: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of national centres for the exchange of information on the environment.
- the next item is the report (a5-0214/2001) by mr sjöstedt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission communication on safety in mining: follow-up study on recent mining accidents (com (2000) 664 - c5-0013/2001 - 2001/2005 (cos)).
i am representing margot wallström on this subject tonight, as mrs wallström had to leave today for the international climate negotiations in japan and australia.
i think it is in the committee's interest that mrs wallström should be representing europe in this high level group, because climate policy is one of our most pressing concerns.
the commission's communication was drawn up in the context of the serious environmental damage caused by cyanide leaks following the 1998 dam collapse in spain and the one in baia mare, romania, in january 2000. the communication sets out the three key actions planned by the commission following the recent mining accidents: firstly, the amendment of the seveso ii directive; secondly, the presentation of the proposal for a new directive on the treatment of mining waste; and thirdly, the preparation of a reference document on best available technologies, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the ippc directive, describing the best available technologies for reducing everyday pollution and preventing or preventing accidents in mining.
in their report they welcome this communication and support the commission's general approach of creating a transparent and coherent framework for greater safety in mining by amending environmental legislation and instruments accordingly.
this applies not only to the three key actions just mentioned, but also to legislation which is not specific to mining, such as the proposed environmental liability directive.
work on the proposal for a new directive on the treatment of mining waste is progressing well.
- the next item is the report (a5-0219/2001) by mrs mckenna, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council recommendation on the implementation of an integrated coastal zone management strategy in europe (com (2000) 545 - c5-0474/2000 - 2000/0227 (cod)).
its resources provide us with food, energy and homes and create opportunities.
however, according to the reports of the european environmental agency, conditions in the coastal zone and its resources continue to decline.
at the suggestion of the italian g8 presidency the forthcoming summit in genoa will focus on the one hand on global development issues, and on the other hand on some key related areas of concern such as the environment and food safety.
turning now to the environment, g8 leaders will have a discussion on climate change.
the commission will be keen, as will no doubt the other european participants, to discuss our concerns about the united states' present stance on climate change and on the ratification of the kyoto protocol.
we will work to ensure that the communiqué makes a clear reference to the scientific evidence to back up the urgency of international measures to mitigate climate change.
we, for our part, will reiterate our determination to press ahead with ratification of the kyoto protocol, and our hope that the reconvened 6th conference of the parties to the climate change convention, scheduled for bonn, can find a means which allows the united states to stick with the process.
beyond the principal themes of development, environment and food safety, there will be a discussion on regional issues focusing on the middle east and the balkans, as well as on conflicts in africa.
i'm talking about the climate conditions on the planet.
it is the young people of the rich countries who interpret the poor countries of the world, their peoples, who meet the unmet demands of democracy and participation, who meet the demands of the person, of the environment, of the forces that demand social justice.
in the field of human rights, environmental protection, respect for minorities and the establishment of citizens, diversity and acceptance of diversity, europe is largely in agreement spontaneously.
i think some of the most important facts we could construct ourselves: the idea, for example, of bringing a united voice, a single voice, from europe to the next summit on the environment; the idea, for example, of deepening the idea of internal cohesion.
- madam president, in an article appearing today in an italian newspaper, president prodi refers to the conclusions of the gothenburg summit on sustainable development as an example of the governance of globalisation towards the goals of global redistribution of wealth and environmental protection.
i will concentrate on the last aspect: it is true that with gothenburg the environmental dimension is integrated into the economic and social dimension.
environmental protection is no longer just a moral imperative but an opportunity for a new wave of innovation, generating growth and jobs.
in gothenburg too, when it came to turning words into deeds, the date was postponed: no "sustainability" advice, no timetable, no concrete reference to applying more environmentally friendly rules.
to accept china's request to host the olympic games today would be to cover with the beautiful colours of the olympic rings and all the flags the executions, the persecutions of any opponent, the material and environmental destruction, the deportations that take place in china and that would certainly not diminish, but would, in my view, be encouraged by this indifference of the international community.
the left, the post-communists, the present opposition - which will be back in the majority at the elections on 23 september, so in a few days' time - certainly does not help to calm the climate and tends to throw oil on the fire and give poland an image that is not very reassuring, and then to pose as the savior of the fatherland.
i would like to give a few examples: the protection of the environment, which was completely forgotten and neglected during the long period of communist dictatorship and is now in a tragic situation; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve air and water quality to european union standards, and these require enormous effort and investment, which are inconceivable without external aid and without those transitional periods to which mr brok referred this morning.
i would like to say to some of my colleagues who are rightly sensitive to the environment and who have tabled amendments that i largely agree with them but have not accepted them because they are too specific and too detailed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in closing the chapters of the acquis, the slovenians were relieved and were able to resolve some very complex issues: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the outcome of the bonn climate change conference.
– mr president, the members of parliament have been too kind to me personally because the commission has the best climate change team in the world.
we should stay in the lead in the world debate about climate change.
my intention is to keep the initiative and ensure that we lead the world in combating climate change.
the environmental protection of austria in the alpine region.
the first is logical: the clause on the number of transits, regardless of the environmental performance of the vehicles, for which greener vehicles mean more eco-points saved, more accumulated transits and a higher risk of exceeding the 108% quota.
- mr president, commissioner, i do not think it is right to divide those who support the commission's proposal and those who oppose it into those who care about the environment and those who do not.
we are all concerned about the protection of the environment and the question of the alpine crossings is not just a matter for austria, but also for a large part of a sensitive area such as the italian alpine area.
because in the commission's proposal, which we share and support, we find the same concern for the environment.
this is no more good for the environment than it is for the transport system.
of course, there is also a problem of mobility which must be guaranteed, there is a problem of competition between road transport companies which must be guaranteed, but above all there is an environmental problem.
i would ask you to take up the concern expressed in the commission proposal for the environmental chain.
article 11 of protocol no 9 deals with nox pollution.
in no case does it mention noise or other types of pollution.
the objective of article 11 is to limit the emissions of gases, nox emissions, and in no case other types of pollution, which could have been collected but were not collected and accepted.
moreover, when article 11 provides for revision - and i want to respond to what has been said here - the commission does not intend to override or go beyond what the law obliges us all to do, but to remain strictly within the scope of what is provided for in article 11 of protocol no 9 to the act of accession, namely revision, to see exactly how it has developed, and it is proposed that equivalent measures be proposed with the aim of reducing nox emissions.
i do not have it here and i am sorry to say so, but i can quote part of the text which says that it authorizes, under article 71 - codecision - the council and now parliament - after the latest amendments to the treaty it is codecision - to adopt measures within a community framework which - i quote verbatim - 'guarantee equivalent protection of the environment, in particular a 60% reduction in pollution'.
in this respect, the principle of the ecopoints - we say this very clearly - has been positive, it has reduced nox emissions by more than 50%.
we are saying this, although we are not making any specific commitments, which we want to propose, and this is what is said in the white paper - which i hope you will be able to read shortly - on transport policy, that for particularly sensitive areas such as the alps measures must be taken to limit the possible harmful effects on the environment.
the honourable member says that with 108% the hauliers are still interested in improving the environmental quality of their trucks.
they are no longer interested, because if they have a 108% ceiling, why should they improve, if the number of trips has reached a ceiling which they can no longer improve by reducing emissions, since they cannot pass more times or suffer a penalty.
if we want to continue to improve emissions, we have to withdraw the 108% clause, because if we do not do this some of the best trucks may be withdrawn from transit through austria because it turns out that there are excess eco-points and no transit rights with that 108%.
it doesn't matter: no one is interested in improving the quality of their emissions anymore because they have the 108% ceiling.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis that there can always be different legal interpretations, and i can always accept that, it seems to me that article 11 of protocol no 9 says that a review should be carried out, that equivalent measures should be proposed and that the objective should be nox emissions.
and that if we want to continue to improve nox emissions, the only possibility is to remove the 108% ceiling, because if we maintain that ceiling, there is no incentive for european hauliers transiting through austria to improve environmental quality in terms of emissions.
the future of europe, even if the current topics are the euro and our economic development in a globalised environment, will depend on the following question: how will we manage our culture, our cultures, our cultural diversity, which is based on common roots, has much in common and is very diverse, all of which together make up the unity of our european cultures?
i am very much in favour of the european union taking action to ensure that noise and pollution from lorries and other means of transport are tackled with greater determination, and that the air is clean and pure, especially in residential and tourist areas frequented by the elderly and pensioners.
we are in favour of ecological limits.
- lithuania, madam president, has a major problem of energy and unemployment.
i voted in favour but i ask that the european union should provide more substantial aid, including financial aid, to combat the lack of energy and the lack of jobs in the state of lithuania.
the documents on trade, food safety, climate change and communicable diseases, as well as the emphasis on africa, by and large reflect the commission’s preparatory contributions to the summit.
the g8 had a very long discussion on climate change, opening the way for the conclusions reached at bonn a few days later and i believe you have discussed these conclusions at this part session.
however, thanks to the attention the movement has managed to create around these summits, the issue of the role of the poorest countries and a more convincing commitment to debt, poverty, trade, the fight against disease and the environment now seems inescapable.
we are working very closely with parliament and what we are trying to do is to establish contents for the negotiation which also take into account directly issues such as the environmental balance, the social agenda, the interests of the less developed countries.
the first thing that should distinguish this institution, at least in its approach, is the speed with which it intervenes and, in response to the loan received, the adoption of all the economic policy measures needed to restore a sustainable balance of payments situation.
on the other hand, more european citizens are also using petitions to raise personal, social or environmental issues: we must respond to them in a comprehensive and satisfactory way, always less platonic and with superficial answers.
the commission has therefore decided to launch a series of activities at international, national and local level in the coming year to promote the sustainable development of mountain areas.
the main objectives of this year are to raise awareness and knowledge about mountain ecosystems, their dynamics and functioning, to promote and preserve the cultural heritage of mountain communities, and to preserve and develop sustainable resources in mountain regions to ensure the quality of life of people today and in the future.
i therefore propose in my report a solution which takes account of the following areas: agriculture and forestry, transport, tourism, energy and water management, regional planning, nature conservation and the preservation of the common cultural heritage.
agriculture: in summary, this calls for the development of the second pillar of the agricultural policy and thus the development of the rural area, while taking due account of the environmental and landscape-management function of agriculture and the multifunctional nature of agriculture.
the search for common problem-solving strategies in the form of regional conventions, the development and updating of criteria and data on mountain areas, as well as the financing of practical and site-specific projects through the sixth framework programme, the development of the necessary basic infrastructure and training and education to ensure that the population is kept adequately informed, the strengthening of transport networks in mountain areas, taking into account the principles of sustainability, in order to safeguard these areas as habitats, natural and economic areas.
this means that access roads to yards and alleys, for example, must be guaranteed, while major roads must be built to the strictest ecological compatibility criteria.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in the report on the environment.
the global alliance against terrorism will certainly have to deal with the military aspects of ensuring security, but it will also have to take into account all the possible forms of terrorism that can be implemented, ranging from financial to banking terrorism, from economic and food terrorism, from environmental to electronic and computer terrorism.
- mr president, the fact that the cohesion fund has played an important role in the development of transeuropean networks and in environmental measures in the four beneficiary countries is beyond dispute, as is certainly the fact that it is an important factor in the convergence of the economy in the european union.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in addition to the various initiatives in the field of training and information, humanitarian, social and health matters, and in support of non-governmental organizations in particular, our committee feels that it is appropriate to mention one initiative in particular: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the health of workers and the environment, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the health of workers and the environment.
i did not know that, and thanks to this directive i have had to review my studies in chemistry, which i certainly find to be a good thing for me personally because, if i had not become a member of the european parliament, i would not have been able to go back to studying the chemical formulae, which are so important in this directive which stipulates that emissions of so2, that is to say sulphur dioxide, will be limited.
it is therefore necessary to establish a strategy for a sustainable immigration policy, where there can be maximum participation by national and local institutions in defining with objective criteria the employment needs, the availability of jobs, but also of housing and social and training services, for all those who ask to come to live and work in our member states.
as regards long-term mobility and the large number of operators who are eagerly awaiting the reopening of the mont blanc tunnel because of the serious disturbances caused by its closure and the congestion of the communication routes to which traffic has had to be diverted, it can be said that in the short term the reopening of the tunnel will be a very positive element both from the point of view of long-term mobility and the environment and safety.
- commissioner, i would like to stress that there is european legislation which must be respected, that the technical characteristics of the new tunnel are almost identical to those of the previous ones, that 97 per cent of the population of chamonix has spoken out against the reopening, which will inevitably harm and will continue to harm all private enterprises, because of the pollution of all the economic activities typical or ordinary to these populations, and that the italian government is preparing to reduce the night toll, thus increasing pollution.
what guarantees does european environmental protection law offer to these populations?
the first response, the first way to react is to step out of the psychological climate of emergency and take control of our agenda.
there were considerable doubts about the urgency of this point - there were also three votes against and three abstentions - because we are called upon to adopt an emergency procedure not so much on the mechanism for identifying waste recyclers as on a list.
the budgetary balances are a necessary but not sufficient objective, because we will have to focus more and more on the quality of public spending and the medium- and long-term sustainability of the public finances of the individual euro countries, and here it is enough to think of pension debt.
- mr president, with the euro just a few days away, i believe that we must above all avoid the risk of creating a contradiction between the policies of convergence and stability on the one hand and those aimed at supporting the processes of growth and sustainable development, in line with the objectives of the lisbon summit, on the other.
in the developing world, new challenges - such as urbanization, environmental degradation and pollution, local wars and the scourge of aids, coupled with the previously unthinkable resurgence of malaria and tb - threaten to set us back.
the reports focus on the fight against aids, malaria, tuberculosis, and they go into sophisticated technical analysis and reform proposals that are likely to improve our response to poverty - first of all on the issue of medicines and health services - without proposing anything about how to make more effective policies of population control, healthy and sustainable fertility, free and conscious motherhood, as if this topic had disappeared from our horizon.
at the european councils of lisbon, nice and stockholm, member states made a commitment to promote sustainable economic growth and quality employment which will reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion as well as strengthening social cohesion in the union between 2001 and 2010. the intention is to reaffirm and further enhance the importance of the european social model and to ensure that social policy has an equal status alongside economic and employment policies and that all three reinforce each other.
lack of sustainability would be the short version of what this is all about.
emphasis should be put on: the creation of alternative forms of employment in the drought-affected areas to improve the irrigation systems in use in these affected areas and, in general, improve water conservation; the introduction of more drought-resistant and less water-hungry crops through further research into new crops, pilot schemes, model farms and whatever is necessary to farm in a sustainable manner in this environment.
either the european union understands that this region is strategic, including its energy supply, and starts thinking and proposing policy, or in a few months or a few years we will see the emergence of new balkans, a little further away and therefore perhaps a little less inconvenient than the balkans we have known throughout the 1990s.
- mr president, full and effective public participation in environmental decision-making is necessary and is welcomed.
this in turn increases accountability and transparency in decision-making and helps to raise public awareness of environmental issues.
full participation of citizens will be ensured from the initial stages of the decision-making process, particularly as regards the preparation of plans and programmes, the procedure relating to environmental impact assessment, and the prevention and reduction of pollution in its entirety.
in this connection, i welcome the introduction by the committee on the environment of new provisions which make clear references to the dissemination of information, including via the internet.
- mr president, this report is based - as many speakers have already said - on very praiseworthy intentions, namely to enable citizens to have a say in the process of forming environmental rules.
- mr president, in 1997, when the luxembourg process was launched, the adoption of guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, it was done in the belief that a positive environment of economic growth alone might not be sufficient to guarantee automatically positive results in terms of employment.
consistency with budgetary policies, including at member state and local/regional level; the quality objectives, which do not only concern the working environment, to combine flexibility, social dialogue, protection, rights and safety, but also go beyond that context, so on the side of continuing training, integration policies, employment, to increase the activity rate of younger workers.
- when the environment is respected as it is with this directive by mr korhola, mr president, we are all happy and cheerful.
in fact, i have just returned from a visit by the environment committee to slovakia, where we saw the progress that this country has made in the environmental field, and i must say that we were all very happy and cheerful, mr president.
i have spoken to minister peres many times about this, and we know very well that the direction we are going is to take measures in certain areas: water, energy, infrastructure, the industrial renaissance, all of which are going to be very important.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
it is therefore right that the european union should take an interest in all the seas, especially those that border some of our countries, and should also provide financial aid, as in this case, to countries beyond its own borders, such as russia, so that they can carry out environmental projects to make these seas cleaner, more navigable and more beautiful.
of course, with this funding we are protecting the chernobyl plant - and i voted for it - but let us think: we are not talking about the nuclear power plant in bohunice in slovakia - which i visited with the environment committee last week - which has been given billions of dollars to improve its safety, and we are not talking about closure as a sine qua non for the country's accession to the european union?
some of the positions expressed on the environment, health and working standards do not help defend against the accusation that the enlargement agenda is actually being used by the advanced countries and europe as a protectionist tool.
today we will discuss the reopening of mont blanc, with many problems related to the economic and environmental aspects.
we must therefore vote with conviction for infrastructure to speed up the process of rebuilding the brenner rail tunnel, the fréjus rail tunnel and moving the rubber onto the rail, to the benefit of the safety of those who travel and also to the environment.
the commission will also propose, as part of its strategy for sustainable mobility, to revise the eurovignette directive to allow cross-financing for new railway infrastructure.
in general, the commission intends to make european transport systems sustainable, taking into account medium and long-term environmental objectives.
it must therefore be said that the cause of the accident is quite identifiable and predictable with the economic situation, but the negative effect of accidents must certainly be linked to another negative effect, which is that of environmental attack.
of course, heavy vehicles, especially those that cross an alpine pass, have an environmental cost that nobody wants to pay.
i must say at the outset that i do not agree with this proposal in the slightest, although i understand the legitimate aspiration of those who live in an area to protect their environment.
it must be said that, in addition to the environmental damage, there is an economic damage which we here have a duty to consider: during these two and a half years of closure it has been calculated that italy alone has lost 1,500 million euros, that the valle d'aosta region has seen its regional gross domestic product decrease by 10 percent.
in the meantime, however, we need real and serious limits for safety and the environment.
the reopening of mont blanc, which is already well behind the commitments made by the italian and french governments in january 2001, must be carried out under conditions which guarantee traffic safety and minimize environmental damage.
instead of continuing to support politically correct projects such as the promotion of women, the promotion of rural development, environmental protection, which are undoubtedly useful but do not go to the heart of the problem, the union should go to the heart of the problem, namely democratisation, reform of the penal code, reform of the constitution, guarantees of fundamental rights.
the package of proposals on energy adopted by the commission this spring comprises greatly strengthened elements relating to public service obligations.
i believe that the calls for safety, worker protection, quality of service and, of course, respect for the environment are useful and fundamental.
we also believe that if an exception were to be made to the application of this directive for reasons of safety and environmental protection, it would not make sense at that point to limit it to pilots alone and exclude other technical-nautic services.
we have expressed a positive opinion on the commission's proposal, particularly in so far as certain amendments tabled by parliament have helped to make possible and consistent a prospect of opening up the market for port services which, although not in itself an absolute good, is of course positive for the requalification of services and for the introduction of elements of competition, provided, as is clear from certain amendments, that certain social clauses, certain priority requirements of environmental safety, professional standards, authorizing insurance are guaranteed.
what is not sustainable is undue expansion, extension with complicated procedures, extension to a too wide range of substances, adoption of non-rigorous scientific bases as a basis of judgment, as proposed in the schörling report.
this, my friends, is not only harmful to the chemical industry but also to the environmental objective we have set ourselves.
let us look at these claims, sometimes demagogic, sometimes fundamentalist, because the common goal, which we all have, of protecting health and the environment in a sustainable economy, is precisely by an excess of intentions, as it were, all-encompassing, that it is in danger of being prejudiced.
- mr president, i too appreciate the work done by the rapporteur and the committee on the environment in preparing a really advanced strategy.
parliament is thus making a valuable contribution by applying the sustainable development approach to the chemical sector in all its inseparable dimensions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
environmental quality and the protection of human health have been integrated.
i am referring to the recent acquittal of the petrochemical company marghera, which has left the directors of montedison enimont, responsible for the deaths of 157 workers and the disastrous pollution of the soil and lagoon of venice, unpunished.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
thirdly, to increase the mobility of researchers by creating an attractive working environment for them in europe.
we're talking about research here, we're talking about the future of clean energy.
i would also like to join in all the congratulations that have been addressed to mr caudron, the rapporteur, and i would really like to say to him that the quality of the report, but also the spirit he has given to this report, and the energy, the work he has done, are exemplary when it comes to carrying out a difficult task.
in particular, the commission agrees to reorganise the content of priorities 1, 'genomics and health', 5, 'food safety' and 6, 'sustainable development', along the lines suggested by parliament.
the third is the joint management of major environmental emergencies.
secondly, we do not agree with the prior positive assessment of the puebla-panama plan, which is a major infrastructure plan that will have a considerable social and environmental impact.
i have been in favour of nuclear energy ever since, and that is why i voted in favour of this document, especially because it promotes nuclear research and studies in europe, which i think we should increase further.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to the detriment of the environment.
mr president, the document presented by mr chichester relates to energy supply and contains elements in favour of nuclear energy.
i have already said on several occasions that i personally and the party of pensioners are in favour of the use of nuclear energy.
these states must be able to use nuclear energy if the reactors meet certain safety requirements, since they cannot afford to incur an unnecessary additional cost simply by substituting one type of energy for another.
the position of the european republicans, the democrats and italy of values therefore coincides with the position expressed in the vote on the caudron report: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the group recalls that the protection of genes by patents does not apply to these elements as they exist in their natural environment, but to molecules isolated from the human body, used in the context of a well-defined technical application.
- madam president, i share the view expressed by commissioner busquin, but parliament's intention is to reduce the placing on the market of these substances which are potentially dangerous to the environment and to man.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's annual report on transeuropean networks provides an overview of community assistance in the three main areas of the tens - transport, energy and telecommunications - from both the general budget of the union and other community sources such as the eib and the cohesion fund.
i believe that the ten transport financial package should be reviewed and adjusted to real needs, especially in view of the impact on other areas such as the environment.
to remedy this problem, i believe that we need to gradually shift the focus from essen priority projects and national infrastructure projects to transit projects and cross-border projects, in order to strengthen sustainable transport policy and promote integration between different modes of transport.
as for the recommendation to open a de facto dialogue on the internal and external impact of globalisation, i can say that this concern will be reflected in the communication which the commission will present next january on the external aspects of sustainable development policy.
there are also the reasons for the so-called non-global movements, reasons which are also relevant and important, which are the reasons for those who imagine a model of development that is more respectful of people and the environment, of those who imagine a more just society where there is a more equitable redistribution of wealth.
– mr president, as indicated by my colleague, mr byrne, yesterday evening the commission very much welcomes the work carried out by the rapporteur and the committee on the environment on this important report.
i think, however, that europe should have been allocated a share of the frequency bands available for the electromagnetic emissions with which electronic messages are transmitted, which then become images on our televisions, computers and signals on our landlines and mobile phones.
- this document we voted on regulates the pollutant emissions mainly of motorcycles.
it is a noise that is unbearable and, above all, it is a pollution that is not odorless, but often smelly.
would you not agree, mr president, if you were a policeman who had to enforce the directives we voted for, to confiscate motorcycles from people who use them with so much noise and pollution?
mr president, before i explain the vote in favour of mr turchi's report on the granting of a community financial contribution in the field of transeuropean networks, that is to say in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications, let me thank mr goodwill who has joined me in defending the interests of retired citizens throughout europe, and not just italians.
we know very well that the national states do not want inspections on the way in which european directives are applied, so much so that in a compromise to have inspections on the application of environmental directives, all 15 states of the union opposed it.
tankers with double hulls sail the seas of the world, offering greater safety against pollution.
we initialled the new protocol at the end of july after four rounds of intensive and difficult negotiations, and i believe that we have really achieved a fair agreement here that benefits both the mauritanian fishermen and the mauritanian sector, as well as our fishermen, and that ensures the sustainable management of resources.
thirdly, the agreement contains a number of provisions which enable the sustainable management of mauritania's fisheries resources and also contribute to local economic development.
this is not only the case in terms of the concrete results achieved, but also in terms of the psychological and environmental aspects.