perhaps the committee on industry has put a little more emphasis on the importance of smes for employment, on the need to facilitate access to risk capital, on the need to simplify the bureaucratic and administrative environment and on better coordination between the various commission programmes which are of interest to small and mediumsized enterprises.
overall, in the last few years, that assistance has totalled – including the contribution to the korean peninsula energy development organisation – about eur 275m.
but they certainly include an area which, i know, has been of interest to mr ford – that is the whole question of the energy industries in north korea which will be so important to the country's economic future.
what is happening in our member states since the purely hysterical inflation of the effects of this crisis is certainly not helping to motivate young people to stay in the agricultural sector and to envisage their future in rural areas, where they fulfil an important social function, as this report very well states, in that they participate in the maintenance and conservation of the landscape and that they contribute to meeting the economic, social and ecological needs of rural areas.
we need high-quality, sustainable agricultural production in the eu.
mr president, one word on sustainable development and the lisbon process.
only if sustainable development becomes as important in benchmarking as economic and social values can we advance.
we need the biodiversity of a lot of small and medium-sized actors and not a monoculture of eight or ten major electricity companies which will employ blackmail on policy-makers as they did before in the monopolistic structures.
there are still 14 million people in europe without jobs - a gigantic waste of economic resources and a contempt for human knowledge and ambition.
it requires open and functioning markets, sound macroeconomic policies and a business climate that facilitates investment and business creation, not least in emerging areas such as it and biotechnology.
fifthly, in stockholm we must include the ecological perspective that was missing from the lisbon strategy and build a bridge to the gothenburg summit.
the lisbon process is therefore a prerequisite not only for sustainable growth, full employment and social cohesion in europe but also for the credibility of european cooperation.
in particular, i hope that we will be able to take stock of the progress of the russian economic reform programme, of the improvements in investment conditions which are essential for the success of our energy dialogue, and of all the problems, including those concerning citizens' rights, which are very serious problems which we will discuss.
if the european council in gothenburg gives its consent, we will add an environmental dimension, giving europe a comprehensive strategy also for sustainable development.
i chose this topic because it is particularly close to my heart and because it has a huge dimension; because it has profound implications for all our policies and because it takes us from stockholm to gothenburg, which means sustainable development.
so we need to modernize our welfare and our pension systems and make them sustainable, that is, sustainable over time.
they also mandated the social protection group to study the sustainability of social protection and, in particular, pension systems on the basis of a commission communication.
today, pension schemes are unnecessarily expensive and this is a waste we cannot afford.
fourthly, we must incorporate the long-term sustainability of public finances into economic and monetary union.
we have to admit this and be proud of it, but the long-term sustainability of public finances is not one of the requirements of the stability and growth pact.
what we need, then, is a renewed commitment to keeping our public finances balanced to make social protection sustainable in the long term.
indeed, sound financial systems are an integral part of the strategy for sustainable development in europe.
the right choices are not unbridled liberalization, deregulation without regard for our social model, for our environmental framework.
i would also like to emphasize that it is welcome that this parliament is of the opinion that the economic and monetary policy of the european union, but also that of the member states, should follow the broad guidelines of the social market economy, a system whose essential components are freedom and democracy, competition, price stability, sustainable growth, subsidiarity, solidarity and private property.
it is also worth recalling, in view of the worrying upward price trends in some member states, that all necessary measures will have to be taken to keep inflation rates below 2% in the second half of 2001. i am particularly pleased that my proposal for a balanced, not hasty, liberalisation of the telecommunications, postal, energy and railway sectors has been accepted.
this energy programme was stopped in december 1999 by the new director-general of the dg transport and energy.
the director-general wants to approve programmes only above eur 400 000, while the council's energy section has set the limit at eur 200 000. this dispute has blocked the implementation of the synergy project for the past year and a half.
we are even at risk of losing the money from 2001, and then it would be the case that we have not implemented two thirds of an energy budget.
the proposal to impose the same tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide levels on eu manufacturers for cigarettes intended for export to third countries is downright perverse.
- the european parliament discussed in strasbourg a report by its committee on the environment on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
the proposed directive provides that the responsible party for electrical and electronic waste, which amounts to some 16 kg per capita in the 15 member states of the european union, a quantity which is expected to double in the next 12 years, is either the producer or the first importer.
commercial premises, especially in urban areas, often lack storage facilities for large quantities of waste.
if the trade cannot take back the waste, other systems, such as recycling parks, must be available to consumers.
it would be possible to agree with the state to take action to encourage consumers, for example, to give away free of charge the waste currently in their attic.
i would like to stress once again our demand that the rights of women to a widow's pension be guaranteed, particularly for generations of women who had no access to employment and who worked exclusively in the family environment.
- we voted in favour of the myller report because we believe it is a step in the right direction and gives a general picture of the policies to be undertaken in the context of environmental protection.
the concept of sustainable development needs to be taken into account at all levels of decision-making and in all sectors.
however, it should not be forgotten that citizens have enormous power through demand and can thus guide environmental considerations in business investment.
moreover, even if the environment knows no borders, it is important that the european legislator respects the principle of subsidiarity, that is, that he does not over-regulate at european level, leaving it to the national authorities to define sustainable development locally, a concept that encompasses not only the protection of the environment, but also the economic and social context necessary for human beings.
the commission proposal contains a second component which aims to add two additional variables relating to expenditure on environmental protection to structural statistics on industry, construction and trade.
reliable information on investments in clean equipment and facilities and current expenditure on environmental protection will be broken down by area: air and climate protection, waste water management, waste management and other environmental protection activities.
i would point out that there is a long transitional period and that small businesses can generally be excluded from the surveys because their impact on environmental protection expenditure is very small.
i would also like to add that these data collected by eurostat are also used for sustainable development indicators.
firstly, mrs rothe, who negotiated well on behalf of all the members, and mrs zackari, who ensured flexibility at the level of the swedish presidency and who in fact led the council towards a compromise acceptable to parliament and to the commissioner, representing all the officials who are fully committed to the cause of renewable energy, without whom parliament would not have been able to win the compromises it won from the council.
tomorrow, a historic step will be taken towards renewable energy in europe, which will account for 22% of electricity in 2010. that's a lot of money.
the german unions that were against renewable energy and were for nuclear five years ago have switched sides because they now have more members on the renewable side than on the nuclear side.
i believe that this directive has also ensured the global leadership of our industries in areas which have even greater potential than ours in renewable energy.
indeed, when they can demonstrate scientifically how a ton of tomatoes burns itself and produces renewable energy, i believe that these delegates will truly deserve the nobel prize.
that is our first objective, but we must not forget another interesting element in this proposal, which is to increase europe's energy supply, that is to say, to increase our security of supply, not to mention the issues raised by some speakers, in terms of technological capacity for industrial development and, therefore, employment and presence on international markets.
it is a delicate matter and it would be necessary to see whether or not we would finally include the production of electricity from the incineration of unsorted municipal waste within the scope of the directive.
strictly speaking, this waste is of renewable origin, which is why the council has advocated its inclusion.
however, the commission had not proposed them in the definition of renewable energy, as this goes against a key point, namely the objective of reuse and recycling of waste, a crucial issue in the comprehensive waste treatment proposed by the commission in the context of its sustainable development strategies.
we therefore accept the proposals put forward by mrs rothe, but we cannot accept amendments nos 12, 13 and 14. on the other hand, we believe that the proposals in amendments nos 2 and 4 are no longer necessary and we support the proposal in amendment no 11. ladies and gentlemen, i am optimistic - as some speakers, such as mr turmes, have said - that in the coming years the increased use of renewable energy will mean lower costs and will therefore make it easier to incorporate its use into our energy mix in a clearer and easier way.
i insist that lowering costs will allow an increase in renewable energy to produce electricity, i insist that this is a truly revolutionary proposal in many respects because, although some said that the objectives are only indicative, they can become mandatory in accordance with certain mechanisms, and it is the first time that, in a field such as this, we set indicative objectives state by state.
far from being a systematic diversion, our rapporteur has put the points on the "i", has fully fulfilled the mandate given to the temporary committee on the environment and has provided our parliament with an instrument enabling it to continue its work in the interests of the protection of citizens.
but, as the council representative said, the long-term sustainability of public finances must be judged and the stability pact says that public finances must be in balance or close to balance.
- strengthening freer, but also fairer and more sustainable global trade within the framework of a multilateral system and a reformed wto is the challenge that the european parliament is tackling with the desire report.
an unwanted e-mail can be deleted in seconds, with a simple click, without the consumer having to spend more money, time, or energy.
already at a preliminary stage of the debate it was clear that the scenarios available to the commission are not really bottom-up scenarios for energy efficiency, renewables or cogeneration.
secondly, energy efficiency is a given for everyone and everyone is stressing this point.
where is the commission today in terms of the important actions to be undertaken in the field of energy efficiency?
i believe that parliament, both through its initiative for an energy intelligent europe and through the action plan, has put forward a number of ways forward.
when i speak of energy security, i am not referring to the physical supply alone, but also to energy systems and services that are sustainable from an ecological, social and economic point of view.
in this sense, the security of energy supplies is fundamental to our development and security in the broad sense, and recent events have shown this even more clearly.
i hope to see, through the responses to the green paper - more than 150 formally, from different organisations of all kinds - the interest that issues related to the security of energy supply arouse throughout europe and beyond.
i am pleased to confirm the general support for the commission's analysis and the considerable degree of awareness of the risks and problems facing europe in ensuring the security of energy supply and the international nature of these risks and problems.
many respondents admitted that it is no longer possible to consider energy supply as something independent of economic and environmental objectives.
the responses also confirm that european public opinion shares the commission's desire to tackle the problem of climate change.
i am particularly pleased to emphasize the emphasis on energy efficiency.
the commission's proposals are based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the community's policy on energy.
in any case, the commission's proposal for a regulation confirms the importance we attach to our own production, but above all the importance of developing a clean coal technology, which will make it possible to use the only source of fossil energy of which the european union has ample reserves and promote the possibility of improving and reducing emissions at international level.
the importance of renewable energy will depend on how quickly we can overcome a whole series of technical, social and economic obstacles.
the renewable energy directive, with regard to electricity, sets the tone for the direction we should take.
i know we have been criticised for not making enough progress with this directive, but we are still trying to achieve our target of doubling the share of renewable energy by the end of the decade.
as regards nuclear energy, i am very pleased with the frank and constructive exchange of views which the presentation of the green paper has made possible.
but one member state has clearly announced its intention to go ahead with nuclear energy and build a new reactor.
in any case, the abandonment of nuclear energy by some member states may open up a significant gap in our energy capacity and accelerate the use of energy sources with higher greenhouse gas emissions and thus pose problems in relation to our kyoto commitments.
although i fully respect the decisions taken by the member states, as is natural, i believe that in these circumstances it is very difficult to tackle the problem of climate change if we maintain a diversified energy base.
i think it is advisable to keep all options open while research is being intensified in the field of waste management and disposal and that is where the major problem of nuclear energy lies, given the progress made in the field of safety at nuclear power stations.
the commission is, however, continuing to make proposals in the search for new sources of energy.
we must continue to look at the tax and pricing framework and, in particular, ensure that an energy pricing mechanism reflects all quantifiable external social and environmental costs.
in this area too, we shall shortly be presenting interconnections of energy networks which will make it possible to integrate national markets more closely and thus strengthen the security of the whole market resulting from this integration.
but i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of a very important proposal on buildings (buildings account for 40% of energy consumption, and there are savings margins of almost 20%), the proposal we are going to make to improve the current regulation on combined heat and power generation, and a generic proposal, a framework proposal, which will make it possible to provide measures for all types of electrical appliances or instruments within the equipment of buildings.
the benefits of energy saving on demand are clear and, i repeat, we have already put forward many serious, sound and far-reaching initiatives, and we will present the ones i have just mentioned.
the report also acknowledges unequivocally the international nature of the energy supply challenges.
the commission intends to draw up a report on this subject next year and we would of course like to use the opportunities offered by the sixth framework programme for research and development and the successor to the energy framework programme as instruments to support our strategy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of energy security.
the debate on the green paper has highlighted - as never before - the delicate interrelationship between energy needs, environmental objectives and balanced economic development.
many of the ideas presented in your report can be important elements in guaranteeing the security of our energy supply.
europe needs to establish a stable long-term framework for ensuring energy security, which is above and beyond changes in international, economic and environmental circumstances, and which provides a firm basis for europe's future role on the international stage.
with this in mind, i would like to use the barcelona european council next spring as a launch pad for a european energy supply strategy, and you can take it for granted that - when designing such a strategy - the ideas contained in this report will be taken very seriously.
i also congratulate and thank mrs ayuso on her opinion report, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and i thank each and every one of the speakers for their comments on this report and this debate.
- occupational pensions will become increasingly important in ensuring that pensions provide security, sustainability and effectiveness of social protection and a decent standard of living for retired people.
it is truly remarkable that, despite the patience and tenacity shown by the spokesmen of all the political groups in this house since 1985, we have not succeeded in convincing the commission that it recognizes that its halfhearted policy, as a result of the 1997 decaffeination regulation, needs to be improved urgently if we are to avert the threat posed by the crisis in beekeeping to the balance of the european ecosystem.
it only requires the political will of the commission and the council to avoid the misappropriation of the 2 billion in the eu budget for an amount which the eu spends in less than five hours a year, and it is only this political will that will help to safeguard european beekeeping together with the beekeepers and prevent us from running blindly into the walls of an ecological catastrophe in the medium term!