(the minutes were approved) the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
general comment on the climate of corruption allegedly prevailing in the balkans.
i therefore believe that we should apply the money and all the security we obtain in the workplace to our living environment.
i see that farmers and gardeners have long had to keep a complete account of the environment and the consumer, and they do so with great motivation.
it requires entrepreneurship, love of the environment and nature, social orientation and perseverance.
perhaps with guidelines such as a premium system linked to quality, landscape and environmental protection, but also that, as in other economic sectors, there is an eco-surcharge, not paid by the farmers but by the consumers, to finance those additional requirements which farmers have to meet and to strengthen the market position of farmers and consumers.
- mr president, the purpose of these directives is to protect the environment.
as far as environmental inspections are concerned, the european parliament has made a great effort to regulate them properly.
nitrate pollution cannot only come from animal manure and it is completely unreasonable to tell farmers to limit if we do not know where the other nitrate pollution is coming from.
i agree with all the speakers who say that we must have a good environmental policy.
- mr president, the lack of compliance with environmental legislation is a major problem.
i see that farmers and gardeners have long had to keep a complete account of the environment and the consumer, and they do so with great motivation.
it requires entrepreneurship, love of the environment and nature, social orientation and perseverance.
perhaps with guidelines such as a premium system linked to quality, landscape and environmental protection, but also that, as in other economic sectors, there is an eco-surcharge, not paid by the farmers but by the consumers, to finance those additional requirements which farmers have to meet and to strengthen the market position of farmers and consumers.
european grants should mainly benefit actual capacity reduction and environmental and quality investments with the following action points: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good one.
the sixth point is that, with regard to environmental problems in the accession countries, we will have to pay particular attention to the problems of food safety in the enlarged union.
recent positive trends include: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community with the european union.
we, like everyone else, want to see civilian resources replaced by military ones, but we do not have to say that too loudly in this environment, given the great hesitation to use military means if necessary.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the increase in employment in the acceding countries is necessary, as is the promotion of sustainable development through environmentally friendly technology.
i would like to call for special attention to the implementation of environmental directives.
finally, the intention to integrate the environment into other policies such as energy taxes is very positive.
this integration is a good starting point for the sixth environmental action programme and the concrete objectives and indicators which will be included in this programme.
and 0.5 per million is, in my view, a socially responsible, measurable and sustainable amount.
secondly, environmental conditions will play an increasingly important role in the next ten years.
citizens will increasingly oppose transportation's encroachment on their environment.
that is why we have tabled an amendment on forms of state aid to small and mediumsized enterprises, including for environmental purposes.
if i may draw some parallels between the way in which the debate on the change in agricultural policy is now taking place in germany, among other countries, but also in a number of other countries, including my own, against the background of the problems of food safety, i predict that something similar will also happen with transport policy and what we are now experiencing with regard to environmental problems, regardless of the failed climate conferences and so on.
finally, we have agreed that we must strive for a sustainable transport policy, in which mobility in the present and in the future must be possible.
in the pursuit of sustainable mobility, we must focus in particular on those modes of transport which cause the least damage to society and the environment.
this report deals with the balance between revenue and expenditure, including intangible costs such as environmental costs and noise costs.
the commission and the rapporteur therefore largely limit sustainability in the forestry sector to planting replacement for felling.
firstly, mr seppänen does not take biodiversity into account in this way, whereas production forests can easily lead to monoculture.
secondly, the report does not sufficiently emphasise the need to minimise emissions.
wood burning is not a sustainable energy source because it releases co2 and other pollutants.
there are more sustainable alternatives such as gasification and composting.
secondly, the use of wood as a carbon sink to meet the kyoto emission reduction targets is questionable.
in fact, combustion must also be considered as a source of carbon.
sustainability is a competitive factor of increasing importance both within and outside the european union.
so far, the poisoning of plantations has led to severe environmental damage and terrible human diseases and also to production relocation.
i would like to make one critical remark, and that is that the environmental advantages of rail over road transport are seriously diminishing.
our parliament has decided on the euro 1 to 5 standards and limits in a rapidly rejuvenating truck fleet and we now have the duty to improve the emission limit value and the energy efficiency of rail transport at a rapid pace.
we are also pleased that, from the point of view of the environment, land use, safety and working conditions, much of the freight transport that is still carried by road is being transferred to rail.
this view fits into a fashion trend which has led to a neoliberal rush against the public service, community enterprises and organized workers, especially in the postal, railway and energy sectors.
look at the environmental tax on some products, in some eu countries it is also common.
the consequences of sinking a ship in this category are smaller in terms of pollution, but the number of crew members killed is considerably higher.
as regards part three - and this is not just a matter for this commission and we have also understood that commissioner wallström will be working hard on it in the coming period - we believe that the emission standards and also the energy use for the railway package need to be improved.
not just to sail from one continent to another, but to drill for oil, to extract other minerals, to dump waste, and to generate electricity from tidal power plants.
mercury, lead and radioactive waste are reducing animal life and making fish increasingly unfit for human consumption.
the need for fish continues to grow while stocks continue to decline due to overfishing and pollution.
- the next item is the report (a5-0032/2001) by mr bowe, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and repealing directive 90/220/eec (c5-0685/2000 - 1998/0072 (cod)).
it is good that the environmental aspects are now covered by the directive.
- mr president, the rapporteur, mr bowe, concludes that the conciliation procedure on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment has produced a generally satisfactory result.
the liberal group can agree with that, although of course there is still a lot to be desired, for example in the area of protecting biodiversity, but those are things we will get back in the future.
the new directive's primary objective remains environmental and public health safety.
it follows logically that, although the use of gmos may be acceptable, there must always be systematic, independent and very thorough research into the possible risks to the environment and to human health before introduction.
finally, i am very pleased that the commission has committed itself to proposing, before the end of 2001, additional liability rules for the various types of environmental damage in all areas of the european union.
it remains of the utmost importance to monitor closely and to limit by all possible means all risks of damage to the environment and to human health.
the majority in parliament is swaying between the position of ngos and the business community, and given the polarization, good admission procedures are a necessity, procedures that guarantee safety, protect consumers and the environment and respect the precautionary principle.
since then, humans have been shipping the world with chemical poison belts and radioactive waste dumps.
mr president, commissioner, the progress of the kyoto protocol was the subject of the recent climate summit in the hague, with the familiarly meagre result.
the contribution of transport to co2 and nox emissions is significant.
it is therefore all the more remarkable that its share in emissions is relatively high.
- mr president, thank you to mr lange for another excellent report on an important matter: air pollution and ozone fog.
a few hundred thousand motorcycles in my country, the netherlands, cause as much air pollution as all six and a half million cars combined.
the political reforms and human rights are obviously the most prominent, but there are also problems with economic reforms and environmental legislation.
- (nl) who judges companies on the basis of their respect for the environment?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
to this end, the eib should pay more attention to the evaluation of projects in areas such as regional and environmental investment.
we therefore recognise the important role of the eib in the european investment climate and we also believe that the eib should take greater account of the effectiveness of european resources spent on the environment in its internal control.
we also recognize the importance of the environment and ngos, but other priorities must also be addressed.
i think that press release also showed that the bank's policy is very much concerned with environmental groups and the environment in general and i think his work has also contributed to that.
the prevailing argument seems to be that economic growth does create jobs and therefore does not require special attention, let alone the quality and sustainability of those jobs.
the european parliament adopted a resolution on the report (a5-0017/2001) by mr soares, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament: 'the european union and macao after the year 2000' (com (1999) 484 - c5-0169/2000 - 2000/2099 (coste)) parliament adopted a resolution on research and trade (com (2000) 345 - c5-0052/2001) by mrs plooij-van plooij, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the report from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament: 'the european union and macao after the year 2000' (com (1999) 484 - c5-0169/2000 - 2000/2099 (coste)) parliament adopted a resolution on research and trade (com (2000) 345 - c5-0052/2001) by mrs plooij-van plooij, on behalf of the committee on industry, energy, research and the committee on economic and social affairs, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the committee on external economic relations, on the communication from the european parliament to the committee on research and social affairs, the european parliament's report to the committee on the european union, the european union, the committee on external action, the european union, the european parliament's and the european parliament's committee on energy union, the committee on research, the environment, and the committee on research, the environment, the economic affairs of the committee on economic affairs of the committee on research, and citizens'
in writing.
countries such as egypt and uzbekistan, which are far more dependent on cotton than greece, are now suffering from considerable environmental problems.
in the longer term, however, these considerations based on income policy will have to be weighed against environmental imperatives, the production conditions of imported cotton and the burden of agricultural policy on the eu's financial resources.
in this climate, the extremists have free rein, for example in the presevo area, where they are attacking kfor troops, a situation which is totally unacceptable to me and to mr dupuis.
- president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent reports and also my colleagues for the excellent cooperation within the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
the liberalization of telecommunications has created a new market environment with more competition and lower prices for businesses and consumers.
the answer is yes, provided that transport must also include communications and energy.
thirdly, recital (e) rightly distinguishes between radioactive material consisting of isotopes for medical, industrial and research purposes - the vast majority - and radioactive waste and spent fuel destined for reuse.
if the commission were to start monitoring all movements of radioactive material now, it would duplicate the work of the international atomic energy agency, which is also about to start.
the eu's high environmental and health standards must not be seen as protectionist towards developing countries.
restrictions on market access are only appropriate for products which pose a threat to health or the environment.
-{nl) i remember the 1950s, when almost everyone thought that the fission of the atom would provide an unlimited amount of clean and safe energy in the future.
since the 1960's, criticism has increased as it has become clear that nuclear power plants can explode and that waste will continue to threaten the environment for a long time.
the harrisburg and chernobyl disasters have slowed down the further expansion of atomic energy and some countries have even stopped or are preparing to do so.
but even then, we'll be dealing with dangerous radioactive waste for thousands of years.
given the risks involved in transporting this waste, the best option is to bury it in the nuclear power stations that are to be closed and not to transport it.
such reasons are: safety at the workplace, adequate pay for workers, exclusion of child labour, good regional distribution of employment, respect for the environment, avoidance of animal torture, combating unnecessary traffic, provision of useful and desirable services but which do not generate profit in the logic of the market.
- mr president, i was very much in favour of the commission's attempt to put an end to the present system of transfers, which in my view has led to absurd waste.
the environmental requirements for large fireplaces in some countries are often stricter because the acidification of our environment has not yet stopped.
if we also think of the ozone problem - you know that many of our fellow citizens suffer from respiratory problems, which are caused in part by nitrogen oxides from traffic and from the sector we are talking about today - then it must be almost a priority for everyone in this house to tackle these problems where it is possible to do so in a simple and effective way.
the commission's original proposal to amend the 1998 directive was not a great success: the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the following: in the first reading parliament showed its best side and did what is expected of representatives of the people, namely to give substance to the concern for man, nature and the environment in general.
in addition to the environmental arguments, i have also given in the explanatory statement other reasons for the need to tighten up the common position: i have also proposed a few economic alternatives in addition to the need to protect public health (ozone smog).
economic alternatives, because we want to build an environmental industry in europe.
if we meet the expectations of those who advocate the liberalisation of the energy market, in other words if we do not make demands or allow exceptions to generate electricity from old, polluting plants, then the market mechanism is disrupted and those who neglect the environment are rewarded with a head start thanks to their cheap energy prices.
that cannot be the purpose of european environmental legislation.
it's about acidification, it's about classic air pollution and ozone depletion.
at the same time, the energy market has been liberalised.
that means that it will be more difficult to enforce environmental regulations.
they're many times more polluting and also bad for co2 emissions.
that is why we need environmental rules, and strict environmental rules.
the committee on the environment has fortunately supported it, but unfortunately the amendments of the committee on the environment will not succeed: i think that the commission has a duty to do so.
- mr president, large combustion plants together account for 63% of sulphur dioxide and 21% of nitrogen oxide emissions in the european union.
the environmental benefits of this sector are therefore significant.
if we consider that waste incineration plants and cement kilns are only allowed to emit 40 mg of sulphur dioxide, i am surprised that emission limits for incineration plants can be as high as 2000 mg. i can imagine that the large combustion plants would be subject to a less stringent regime, but i do not think it would be acceptable to impose 40 times that.
with the present state of the art it is well possible to reduce the so2 emission to 100. the values proposed by the environment committee, which range from 1200 to 300 for existing installations, are therefore certainly not too stringent.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
it is unacceptable to allow large old combustion plants to pollute heavily for 2200 hours a year, and to allow emissions to be exceeded if the fuel, such as the highly polluting lignite, is produced in the country.
the liberalisation of the energy market must be based on equal environmental conditions, so the exceptions mentioned must be waived to avoid distortion of competition.
the commission has also proposed that the community should provide incentives for the improvement or renewal of old, highly polluting installations, rather than allowing them to continue to cause serious pollution.
my fourth point concerns the link between this directive and the waste incineration directive.
the main points of this directive are therefore to reduce emissions of these substances below critical levels and to reduce their impact.
in addition, there are direct environmental effects of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds and also, to a lesser extent, ammonia on our own continent.
the council's compromise proposal on so2, nox and vocs will, in my view, lead to higher emissions.
i would add that the effects of ammonia emissions are also partly local and that a lower ambition may therefore also be justified.
but for household volatile organic compounds, which are responsible for one third of emissions, such rules still do not exist.
within europe, the right of veto on environmental legislation has been abolished.
if we as the european union are not able to establish substantially stricter environmental standards than the gothenburg protocol, that is a disgrace.
-the time when political currents, interest groups and authorities denied the existence of ecological problems is over.
yet new cases of environmental pollution are occurring and old cases are not being tackled sufficiently.
today's environmental problems are largely the result of secrecy.
companies keep quiet about their manufacturing processes and thus about the production of waste that is released into the air, water or soil.
environmental problems can only be truly solved if there is the greatest possible transparency.
this sound ecological principle is enshrined in european law.
the european union must develop a transparent regulatory framework that promotes innovation and a stimulating business climate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the rapporteur calls for biotechnological development to be beneficial for the environment, food quality, health and developing countries.
the great value of this report is that it clearly identifies where additional safeguards are needed for producers, consumers, the environment and health care.
a good balance between new techniques such as biotechnology, sustainability and their integration into a strategic food policy is essential.
there is a wide range of opinions on pvc and its effects on health and the environment.
we in the epp group welcome the green paper: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the environmental and health problems associated with pvc are therefore mainly related to the presence of the additives and the way in which pvc waste is handled.
lead stabilisers, or more precisely organotin and lead compounds, are the most relevant and the environmental risks are also greater, especially for the lead stabilisers.
after the incineration of waste, lead additives from pvc contribute to an undesirable high level of lead in waste incineration plant residues by about 10%, and this calls for a stricter policy on this point as well.
in incineration plants, there are two sources: on the one hand, there is gft, as we call it in english, which is vegetable, fruit and garden waste, which also contains a large amount of chlorine, and on the other hand, pvc.
that means that we must pay very close attention to the waste in these incineration plants and to the possible release of dioxins.
the elimination of pvc from waste facilities is therefore important.
it is not just the incineration of waste and the resulting emissions that are at stake here.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste incineration plant is not affected by the chlorine.
the extent to which pvc has environmental or health problems that do not outweigh its benefits remains to be seen.
we must ask ourselves how we will deal with pvc if it is found that aspects of its use are unsafe or harmful to the environment.
the risks in the waste phase are great, because we do not get rid of the harmful substances in pvc.
the comparative life cycle analysis shall strike a balance between environmental protection and the lifetime of the product.
the problem with pvc occurs in the waste phase, mainly because of the emissions of heavy metals and chlorine compounds, as well as the large amounts of residues.
the resolution hits the nail on the head by calling for a strengthening of the european waste strategy.
we are talking about the bulk pvc, such as piping systems, pipes, building profiles, window frames, roof tiles and other waste from the construction sector.
the recycling of waste is conditional on the elimination of the heavy metal problem and the reduction of emissions.
but whereas in the environmental action programme we only talk about the role of government as a model, here we can add action to the word.
the institutions should take advantage of the changes in the emas directive which now also allow organisations such as ours to participate in the community environmental management and audit system.
the green paper also casts its shadow and can be used as a guide to involve the fisheries sector more closely in the sustainable management of fish stocks and the modernisation of the fleet.
the other side of the coin is bad working conditions, low wages, environmental destruction and increased animal suffering.
it is not pvc, but mainly vegetable, fruit and garden waste that causes the chlorine compounds.
the only solution therefore seems to be to dispose of pvc waste, but even then pollutants are released.
the commission's environmental management committee has drawn up the programme and has covered everything and everything that could be relevant to public health.
the starting point is that a shift towards more sustainable transport must first be achieved by fairly sharing the costs of each mode of transport.
the text of the regulation is somewhat inaccessible at first sight, but it treats fair competition as the appropriate means of achieving more sustainable transport.
in fact, opaque aid and inequality between undertakings should not be obstacles to sustainable transport.
the environmental interests are clear, the efficiency interests are clear, but what we still lack is some form of dynamism.
together, these 55 countries are responsible for 55% of emissions.
europe must take the lead in energy saving and renewable energy.
european action will convince developing countries to accept climate objectives in the long term.
the same developing countries have already made it clear at the failed climate summit in the hague that they do not want nuclear energy, not even subsidized.
but the climate death that bush is bringing to the world is unacceptable.
bush thinks he can afford to ignore global commitments on carbon reduction.
the importance of the american oil industry is thus clearly greater than that of the environment.
fourthly: the regulation will also cover union agencies such as the european environment agency, the european trade mark office and europol.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the point is that there has been too much optimism about the characteristics of nuclear energy all over the world since the 1950s.
what was expected was an inexhaustible source of cheap and clean energy, but instead it was a hazardous plant that continues to seriously pollute the environment even after production has been stopped for a long time.
the solution does not require a new type of nuclear power plant, but a systematic rebuilding of the affected area, alternative energy generation and energy saving.
it is only in the interests of all europeans to contribute financially to this, otherwise we are organising waste and disasters for the future.
we want a green revolution, we want quality rather than quantity, our agricultural policy must no longer damage the environment, we must get rid of protectionism which harms third world countries, we must take animal welfare seriously.
the favourable economic climate should have been used for reforms.
the export provision has been agreed so that from 2007 tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide will be subject to the same criteria as products sold within the european union.
i therefore have no objection to the use of images on cigarette packs to confront smokers with what they are doing to themselves and their environment.
many subsidies and other incentive schemes, on the other hand, only distort the market and are often harmful to the environment.
my final point is the environment.
despite the favourable economic climate, little has been done to implement the sustainability strategy.
economic growth, reducing unemployment and integrating the environment need to go together much better.
a new phase of integration will only live up to its name if the integration of the environment and the economy really takes off.
- mr president, at present 90% of electronic waste in the european union is landfilled or incinerated without any prior treatment.
this means that 36 tonnes of mercury, 16 tonnes of cadmium and a lot of dioxins and furans are being released into the environment uncontrolled.
in addition, devices with a lot of glass, such as televisions, have a negative energy output when burned.
in addition, hazardous substances evaporate or leak out when electronic waste is disposed of.
however, it should be borne in mind that recycling is only more environmentally friendly if the waste is also pre-treated.
the success of the directive depends on the implementation of the collection of electronic waste.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a waste-to-energy facility.
the free disposal of electronic waste will be a good incentive.
the danger of electronic waste being dumped in countries outside the european union under the guise of reuse is not, however, an imagined one.
because there are increasing flows of waste electrical and electronic equipment in europe.
firstly, it is in the user's interest to be able to hand in electronic and electrical waste free of charge.
i support voluntary collection, treatment and disposal which respects the environment, in order to show the consumer that the producers were indeed taking responsibility when selling new products.
the aim of the directive is to prevent environmental problems.
in order to make the user aware of the waste problem, i would also like to see the introduction of a bar chart indicating the degree of recyclability.
the proposal lays down the main guidelines for the collection of waste equipment and the financing of recycling.
it is our task to ensure that products traded on the internal market all meet the highest standards of environmental and safety standards.
however, we must limit the negative environmental effects of flame retardants as much as possible.
from an environmental point of view, i therefore call for a ban on certain brominated flame retardants.
- mr president, in an opinion of the council's legal service on the water framework directive, the reduction of emissions to near zero is not considered legally binding.
given the background emissions, this will indeed be impossible.
i think it would be better to have a list of priority hazardous substances with emissions reduced by 95 to 99 per cent than to have one substance reduced by 100 per cent.
i have already criticised the method used in the committee on the environment to draw up the list of priority substances in water.
mr president, i am firmly convinced that the water framework directive is, as some of my colleagues have said, one of the most important pieces of environmental legislation that parliament has adopted in recent years.
a recent study of european drinking water and waste water treatment companies has also shown that pesticide pollution of drinking water sources in europe is causing far too high concentrations of these substances in our water, which is a serious threat to the supply of drinking water.
- mr president, i would like to express my support and that of my group for the rapporteur and the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, in particular the specific reference to the precautionary principle, market surveillance and the european product safety network.
the commissioner lamy has been accused of a number of things by the proposal he submitted: of a cynical attempt to buy votes in the wto; the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the development of the community's energy sector.
the safety of the personnel is often low and the environmental risks are high.
i believe that it should not be private classification societies that control the ships but the government, in good cooperation with the trade union movement and the environmental movement.
who knows how many environmental disasters we could have spared our flora and fauna, our coasts, our fishing fleets and the tourist sector.
who knows how many oil disasters, how many victims, how much serious pollution in europe we could have prevented if adequate monitoring had been carried out.
this is not only an essential condition for access to the ports of the european union, but also an effective way of applying one of the principles underlying community environmental policy, namely 'the polluter pays'.
cooperation is also crucial in areas such as environmental protection and the reduction of co2 emissions.
dutch newspapers carried a letter-style appeal to president bush from what the author himself called "the profitable part of american industry" to ask the president not to listen only to inefficient companies when it comes to environmental decisions.
strong environmental legislation makes companies more innovative, more technology-oriented and more efficient.
-{nl) on this subject, the interests of companies continue to clash with those of the consumer and the environment.
this brings me to another point which i hope will be better explained by the content, and that is the environmental audit.
mr president, this house also spoke very well a few years ago about the desirability of an environmental audit.
however, because of the sometimes conflicting interests of the european parliament and the pharmaceutical industry (prices of aids drugs) or the automotive industry (environmental standards), for example, we cannot accept money from them.
- the agenda calls for the joint debate on the following reports: :- a5-0172/2001 by mr blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament: reconciling our needs and responsibilities by integrating environmental issues into economic policy [com (2000) 576 - c5-0012/2001 - 2001/2004 (cos) ]; - a5-0171/2001 by mrs hulthén, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on public policy on the environment and sustainable development: preparation of the gothenburg european council [2000/23 (ini)) ].
if you think it was written by a 21st century environmental activist, you are wrong, because it was published in 1536 by martin bucer, the vicar of st thomas' church in strasbourg.
so caring for and taking care of the environment is certainly not a recent phenomenon.
the general opinion of the committee on the environment is that the european commission's communication bears too much resemblance to the document published six years ago.
this will help to assess more accurately the environmental scarcity that has so far been unaffordable.
this gives producers and consumers 'automatic incentives' that steer them towards a more sustainable way of working and living.
the problem of environmental degradation is not isolated.
poverty, unemployment, energy and environmental problems interact and reinforce each other, threatening a negative spiral.
as regards the indicators for the integration of the economy and the environment, the commission rightly calls for the structural indicators requested by the lisbon council to be included.
unfortunately, the commission does not emphasize the great importance of a systematic approach linking environmental accounts to national accounts.
the systematic approach is precisely the one which aims to provide an objective picture of the interaction between economic sectors, the environment and other fields.
a critical review using a qualitative study that assesses the effectiveness of both environmentally harmful measures and environmental protection levies and incentive subsidies is much better.
public awareness of the importance of sustainable economic development is generally low.
it is therefore regrettable that today's debate is announced under the heading 'environmental policy'.
- president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable development is the challenge for the next 20 years.
sustainable development is a beautiful concept, which expresses the belief that economic growth can go hand in hand with environmental improvement.
until now, this has not usually been the case, and economic growth has come at the expense of the environment.
the challenge now is to improve our production methods so that they are more or even more environmentally friendly, to change our thinking and actions, to include environmental costs so that environmental protection becomes profitable.
i would also like to thank mrs hulthén for the conviction and tenacity with which she has put forward her vision of sustainable development.
the concept of sustainable development must be translated into concrete proposals and decisions.
i would like to make three points: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by: sustainable development must be given a hand and a foot.
we want to work on developing concrete product standards, standards that restrict energy use, standards that limit or prohibit the use of hazardous substances as much as possible, rules to allow environmental costs to be passed on in the price of the product.
i think there are many environmental benefits to be gained from this.
the standards should also cover waste prevention: less waste, less wear, more durability and more long-lasting quality.
the big challenge then is to create markets for all the waste products and all the waste.
the calculation of environmental costs is important, but not everything can be expressed in money.
the protection of nature and biodiversity is also a value in itself without any direct economic value.
the protection of biodiversity is a theme that must be repeatedly addressed in many policies.
the vote on both reports will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8.25 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
- mr president, i remember that at a very early stage, before the action plan was on the table, we had a conversation with the commissioner in which we said that the sixth environmental action plan should be a short document, a pamphlet, with very clear priorities and objectives.
it is a document which, although it provides an excellent analysis, is far too long and does not set clear priorities and does not in fact indicate a clear policy direction, except that we want to make the environment cleaner.
the environment committee will then be called upon to take action.
but in the end the result of the work of the environment committee is not quite what we wanted.
- mr president, the evaluation of the fifth environmental action programme almost two years ago made clear and confrontational statements on the various environmental issues.
the increase in activities in the fields of transport, energy and agriculture is increasing the pressure on the environment, despite all the new environmental legislation.
this is partly due to the failure of many member states to implement environmental legislation.
the resolution of environmental problems in these countries is a very high priority.
in addition, the greatest environmental benefits can be achieved here.
since 1972 we have had environmental action programmes, one, two, three, four and five.
a few years ago, senior officials in the environment dg said, we have done enough, in fact, we have no need at all for a sixth environmental action programme.
if those member states implement what has been decided, then everything will be fine with the environment.
we in the green group have protested loudly against this and we have asked the commissioner-designate, mr wallström, to give us a sixth environmental action programme.
climate, waste and biodiversity: the need for a common approach to waste management the liberals said they had to put them in.
without the sixth environmental action programme, all that biodiversity would have been forgotten.
- mr president, the environment action programme has given parliament a great deal of activity.
i am one of those who are actually satisfied: the topics are very well chosen and i am pleased with all the emphasis on climate, health, biodiversity and waste.
her report contributes to a better and more concrete environmental action programme.
the sixth environmental action programme should become the cornerstone of the european strategy for sustainable development.
one of the amendments by the committee on the environment states that parliament should be given a half-yearly overview of the state of play, an overview of the member states' compliance with the commission's incentives and, if possible, also of the effectiveness of the regulations.
the sixth environmental action programme can also be made a success by working together on several fronts.
sustainable development cannot be confined to the confines of europe.
the environment committee therefore calls for the protection of hotspots in tropical areas.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat noise pollution.
it is one of the few environmental problems which a large number of citizens have and which they can also imagine.
the commission has already noted this in the fifth environmental action programme and promised to propose it, but almost ten years have passed without much action being taken.
the environmental aspect has hardly been considered.
- (nl) the price of economic growth is the degradation of nature and the environment.
we have a very clear example of this today with the us president bush's government, which considers the increase in oil production to be much more important than compliance with the kyoto agreement on climate.
after the eu has devoted considerable community funds to the unintentional destruction of the environment, the need to protect it is becoming increasingly evident.
those who do not dare to choose between the supremacy of the economy and the protection of our environment are bound to find themselves locked in conflicting decisions.
- (nl) the environmental degradation is man-made.
air, water and soil pollution, soil erosion, floods and landslides are a cross-border problem which we should all be willing to solve together even if there were no european union.
the next step is to break down the opposition of those who still feel that environmental choices are detrimental to their own interests.
the u.s. government and the oil companies that helped it to power don't care that climate change is going to cause sea levels and deserts to rise, making parts of the earth's surface uninhabitable.
i see the sixth environmental action programme, and especially the reformulation of the aims and means proposed by the rapporteur and the three rapporteurs for opinions, as a signal that the peoples of europe do not want to resign themselves to the impotence that america is trying to impose on us.
- mr president, it is appalling that we have to deal again with this waste of human life.
it is high time that animals were no longer adapted to their environment, but that the environment was adapted to the animal.
ict can also contribute to better environmental management and energy saving.
in addition, there is integration, since this policy is beneficial for the state of the environment and animal welfare, among other things.
i agree with the environment committee's proposal that risk assessment should be the responsibility of the food authority.
the environment committee has tightened up the proposal, and rightly so.
the council of environment ministers wants to solve the problem of summer smog only halfway by 2010. they don't want to go any further.
my group and the environment committee are proposing that summer smog should be a thing of the past in 2020. this can be done by eliminating the pollutant nox altogether.
for a growing group in the richest countries, the lure of profit takes precedence over the well-being of others and the protection of the environment.
in addition to the justified focus on europe and the environment and on the transatlantic dialogue, relations with asia should be the third pillar of the eu's foreign policy.
- mr president, it is ten years since our leaders met at a summit to discuss sustainable development.
why does sweden scrap sustainable development before the summit starts?
but the bush energy plan for more oil, more coal, more gas and more nuclear power plants means the death of the climate for the whole earth.
align our needs and responsibilities - the commission has also proposed that environmental issues be integrated into economic policy.
very appropriately, a number of motions for resolutions tabled on the forthcoming gothenburg summit emphasise a stronger environmental policy, a social europe and respect for the rights of the albanians in macedonia.
this whole development is bad for the industry, bad for the environment (because cheap transport generates new transport), bad for safety and bad for society.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the following reports are requested for joint debate: - (a5-0208/2001) by mr sterckx, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the establishment of a community system for the monitoring, control and information of maritime traffic (com (2000) 802 - c5-0700/2000 - 2000/0325 (cod)); - a5-0205/2001 by mr mastorakis, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european maritime safety agency (com (2000) 802 - c5-0702/2000 - 2000/0327 (cod)); - a5-0201/2001 by mr esclopé, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a fund for compensation for damage caused by oil pollution in european waters and other complementary measures (com (2000) 802 - c5-0701/2000 - 2000/0326 (cod))
- mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, we have just heard in a previous speech our fantastic fatuzzo, who spoke about the disappearance of the andrea doria and there pointed to the fatigue of the skipper.
i am therefore rather critical of the proposal to extend the compensation fund for oil pollution, for example, to include other substances.
the commission's role in the management of the fund is important, and it is to be complemented by all the environmental organizations and local authorities.
is it not true that the main threats to maritime traffic and the marine and coastal environment come from older ships?
they shall contribute to the establishment of an adequate framework for maritime safety and environmental protection.
the third important part of this proposal concerns the point where the erika went wrong; the ability to seek safe shelter in the event of potential damage to the ship and the environment.
it's causing problems with sustainability.
- mr president, the commission and the rapporteur consider that diversification is the keyword for the european union's energy supply.
thirdly, diversification by type of energy source is necessary, as proposed by the commission and the rapporteur.
therefore, other energy sources should be substituted for petroleum in sectors where this is possible.
natural gas and renewable energy sources can thus contribute to a more diversified supply.
however, sustainability involves more than targeted promotion of renewable energy sources.
national sustainability strategies provide the market with a variety of accompanying policies.
at european level, this diversification in energy sources and geographical origin must be avoided by avoiding competition at the expense of environmental standards and working conditions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community.
the basic conditions for a reliable and sustainable energy supply, on the other hand, are.
the free trade system is not only sacrificing people and their environment but also the welfare of animals.
the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover all aspects of the protection of the environment.
and of course, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
in that light, i believe there is no place for supersonic aircraft that fly at enormous speeds but use vastly more energy than current aircraft and therefore emit even more greenhouse gases.
finally, energy policy was a minor blunder of the swedish presidency.
it is extremely regrettable that the franco-german axis has led to the fact that the liberalisation of the energy market is not going further in europe.
- mr president, in the second chapter of the european council's conclusions the theme of sustainable development occupies a very prominent place.
sustainable development, i agree with him, must be added to the lisbon criteria.
i quote: "we must reverse trends that threaten the future quality of our lives" and also with the statement that "sustainable development offers great economic opportunities and will lead to technological innovation and investment that generate growth and jobs".
the paper on which these fine conclusions were written was not yet dry, or at least the council was not able to give it a full account of it when it adopted two legislative environmental dossiers on monday.
we are talking to one of the commissioners tonight about corporate social responsibility, and that means we are not just talking about shareholders, but also about stakeholders, we are talking about consumers, we are talking about environmental organisations and we are talking about workers.
in the corridors, member states are well aware that their pensions are not sustainable.
- president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said before: renewable energy has many advantages.
sustainable energy reduces dependence on imports from third countries, can be generated decentrally and offers prospects for regional development.
but above all, it is clean energy.
the european union defended an ambitious package of wishes at the climate negotiations last november.
the renewable energy directive was a good opportunity to put the word into action.
the coming period will also provide ample opportunity to demonstrate that we are serious about renewable energy.
first, a common european research agenda is needed to develop the technologies that will accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy and to learn from each other.
sustainable energy is often associated with small-scale solutions: every village a couple of windmills.
sustainable energy also requires large-scale projects and requires government commitment.
when this is acceptable to buyers and former shareholders, companies close down because their profit margins are lower than those of the rest of the group, their brand name can be applied to other products or their production site can be transferred to a country where wages are lower and environmental legislation is less restrictive.
- (nl) due to the functioning of the market, where the aim is to find the best electricity market and not the most environmentally friendly, the threat of the resurgence of polluting fuels such as nuclear energy, coal, lignite and oil is looming.
in the netherlands, relatively clean power stations are left idle to make way for cheap but polluting energy imports.
replacing these polluting fuels with solar, wind and hydroelectric energy is essential to preserving our environment.
instead of actively working on developing new forms of electricity generation, consumers are first asked to buy more environmentally friendly energy at a different price from another supplier.
this situation has led to attempts to attribute several forms of electricity production to renewable energy.
the incineration of unsorted organic household waste and wood waste has always existed and suddenly this practice is being put in the category of renewable energy in order to achieve the set target.
my support for renewable energy production does not fall into the latter category.
significant investment in new sources of renewable energy that anticipate consumer demand and are not dependent on waste collection is an alternative to the system now required by the council.
pensions are a means of distributing and supplementing people's incomes in order to ensure a sustainable and acceptable standard of living for all, even when, at the age of 70, 90 or 110, these people will no longer be productive.
the debate on the future design and organization of this work has taken a great deal of time and energy and has been subjected to too much pressure.
an agreement to ensure the environmental integrity of the kyoto protocol, to achieve real reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and to achieve the widest possible participation of the industrialized countries, thus creating the conditions for the ratification and entry into force of the protocol by 2002. so we reaffirm our commitment to try to achieve that.
at the high-level talks held in scheveningen on 27 and 28 june, the european union was able to establish fruitful contacts on the climate negotiations with several partners and was pleased to note that there is still strong support in the international community for the kyoto protocol and its early entry into force, despite the refusal of the united states to ratify it.
at the european union/united states summit in gothenburg, president bush acknowledged the science underlying climate change and the global importance of this issue.
the commission welcomes the strong interest of the european parliament in the global problem of climate change and the participation of members of the european parliament in the community delegation to the resumed cop6.
in my group's view, and in the opinion of a clear majority in the european parliament, nuclear energy cannot and must not play a role in solving the climate problem or in the clean development mechanism.
europe must now seriously work on energy conservation and renewable energy.
further development of solar energy is essential to provide electricity to the last two billion people on our planet.
two billion people powered by fossil fuels means certain climate death for all of us.
the 1987 montreal convention on the depletion of the ozone layer was also a weak agreement, but it has been strengthened over the last 14 years.
while co2 emissions have fallen significantly in luxembourg, germany and the uk, they have risen considerably in spain, portugal and ireland.
the world wildlife fund forecasts that co2 emissions in the european union as a whole will increase by 8% instead of decreasing by 8% in accordance with the kyoto protocol.
it is also very inconsistent for the european union to accuse the united states of not wanting to do anything to combat co2 emissions, if the european union is not prepared to go further with the reduction of nox emissions.
in the united states, the emission standards for nox in 2003 are already more stringent than what the environment ministers want under the large combustion plants directive in 2018. the danger is that the failure of the kyoto protocol will be used as an excuse for inaction.
the threat of climate change remains, as does the objective of countering it, with or without the kyoto protocol.
the eu should not follow the example of the united states or japan, but tackle climate change by focusing on energy saving, energy efficiency through, among other things, combined heat and power and the development of wind and solar energy.
we must also be open to expanding the share that can be achieved through emissions trading.
finally, we must not neglect the contribution of the third world countries, where energy consumption will also increase considerably.
climate change is having a major impact on developing countries.
thirdly, we must promise ourselves that we will do domestic action and not promote nuclear energy.
we must now move quickly to a credible and reliable emissions trading system, and we must establish a research agenda within europe to enable the transition to a low-carbon economy.
the topics discussed were globalisation, poverty reduction, the environment and conflict prevention.
the commission's modest proposals have been watered down by a majority of the christian democrats and the liberals in the environment committee.
because of president bush and the big oil companies, these areas are at risk of being reclaimed by the sea, because as long as the artificial global warming continues, the ice sheets will continue to melt and sea levels will continue to rise.
the environmental and animal welfare situation is appalling.
the aim is to maintain fish stocks in a sustainable way.
sustainable fishing can only be achieved if there is room within the allowable catch limits for an efficient fleet.
they want as few taxes as possible, as little worker participation as possible and as few rules as possible to protect against environmental pollution and animal abuse.
this lure of profit is often thwarted by efforts to ensure the healthiest possible environment, the prevention of occupational diseases, a safe working environment, democratic decision-making and the desire to have sufficient financial resources to cover the costs of collective equipment.
what is certain is that the kyoto baby will have to grow a lot to control climate change.
but it took another environmental baby, the 1987 montreal convention, 14 years to effectively combat the ozone hole.
the united states' carbon emissions are twice as high as those in europe.
it is no wonder that there are studies, like that of florentin krause, showing that the united states can meet kyoto and achieve 1% extra economic growth through smart energy policy.
to increase the pressure on president bush, my group and, fortunately, parliament are proposing to hold cop-9 in the united states in 2003. the kyoto baby is then a child who goes to school and has to learn to talk, especially about the international trade in carbon rights.
and finally, for the transport sector, which is so difficult to control: the commission should put forward proposals to reduce co2 emissions from vans and lorries.
political agreements must now be translated into concrete action with visible results, because that is the way to strengthen political support for climate policy.
the fight against greenhouse gas emissions is a global challenge in third world countries where the effects of sea level rise and changing weather patterns are painfully felt.
sustainable energy can be a driving force for development.
sustainable development must lead to sustainable growth.
we have to make the transition to a low-carbon economy and start shaping this.
climate policy is also part of the sixth environment action programme.
it must be reflected in all product and packaging policy, transport policy and energy policy.
the regulations and amendments rightly mention the health and well-being of passengers on board and the environment, and in particular the issue of emissions.
for years, switzerland and austria have protected their alpine valleys from the noise and air pollution of heavy goods vehicle traffic.
when austria joined the european union, a compromise was reached which allowed that member state to maintain that protection in part by reducing its nox emissions by 60% between 1992 and 2004. this measure also benefits others, as it encourages transport to be reduced or transferred to railway links which are better for people and the environment.
the exclusion of large groups of road users in the emission measurement does not contribute to a clear picture of emissions from transit traffic.
that is why i support initiatives to reduce emissions in general and in vulnerable natural areas in particular.
in short, i think it is unwise, in the absence of a broader policy for vulnerable areas, to take unilateral measures which are not expected to promote sustainable mobility.
eu enlargement may increase national divisions, particularly because many of the companies still active in the east do not comply with the environmental acquis and will at best inherit in return low-wage cost production regimes such as those in mexico.
i can already see that minister zalm will soon be throwing us in the dust that another new parliament building is a waste of money.
risk assessments, as mrs ries has just said, have shown that the use of pentabum diphenyl ether poses risks to the environment and to human health, because this brominated flame retardant is used in the manufacture of furniture and upholstery.
therefore, in the interests of public health and the environment, the placing on the market and the use of pentabde and of all articles containing pentabde should be prohibited.
alternative fire retardants are available, so this ban will not increase fire and environmental risks.
when considering the directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, this parliament has already expressed its support for a gradual ban on all pbde in specific applications by january 2006. the potential risks of octa- and decabde are currently being assessed and the outcome of this study will be submitted to the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment before the end of this year.
the first known results of the risk assessments for octabde, currently carried out in the united kingdom in terms of environmental effects and in france in terms of effects on human health, show that there are clear risks for human health and the environment.
- in the interests of health, the protection of european citizens, the protection of the environment and the preservation of the internal market, on the basis of the results of the risk assessments of brominated flame retardants known to date and on the basis of this precautionary principle, a ban on penta- and octa-bde should be introduced, as well as on decabde if the risk assessment due before the end of the year indicates that decabde is a cause for concern.
-(nl) an agriculture increasingly dependent on world markets will try to produce as cheaply as possible, at the expense of quality of labour, nature, the environment and animal welfare.
that is very important right now because we cannot use negative stereotypes of islam in the current sensitive climate.
we have here, as a european parliament, really given substance to what environmental policy really means, and i would like to thank all those colleagues who have taken part in this.
we have shown what it means to really want to do something about this filthy air pollution, which is also harmful to people.
if i compare that with the regulations currently in force in japan and the united states, we, who all want to do it so neatly, would have made a very bad impression with the council's emissions requirements in the kyoto talks.
if we were to meet the expectations of those who advocate the liberalisation of the energy market, in other words if we did not make demands or allow exceptions to generate electricity from old, polluting plants, then in our view the market mechanism would be disrupted and those who neglect the environment would be rewarded with a head start because they would be able to use their old plants to lower energy prices.
the trialogue with the swedish presidency and the commission in may and june this year also saw considerable progress made on reducing emissions of so2, sulphur dioxide, and on a number of important technical issues.
the trialogue reached a provisional agreement on the commission's obligation to extend continuous measurements to heavy metal emissions, thanks to hans blokland.
this was important because those old plants are often the least energy efficient and also emit disproportionately high greenhouse gases.
as regards nox emissions, parliament has insisted on reducing the nox limit value for large combustion plants from 650 mg per cubic metre to 200 mg for those plants burning solid fuels.
we have also been able to bring down the exception which the council wanted for peak installations, so that polluting emissions can also be kept under control in this respect.
- mr president, i shall confine myself to air pollution from large combustion plants.
i still believe that the result of the mediation is far behind the current technical possibilities for reducing polluting emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not used in the same way as other waste.
i should have expected that the liberalisation of the energy market would lead to the creation of equal environmental conditions to prevent distortions of competition.
in conclusion, mr president, the reason why i will be voting in favour of this directive is not that it effectively tackles air pollution, but that this new directive is less bad than the previous one.
today, the european environment agency estimates that 30% of europeans suffer from noise.
unfortunately, our environment ministers have a different view.
the commission has also proposed a directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from motor vehicles.
the council followed the view of the dutch minister for the environment, jan pronk, that noise is only a local problem.
our environment ministers are exposing our citizens to more and more noise.
on the subject of road, air and rail noise, the environment ministers have only proposed a weak declaration, but no binding legislation.
the environment committee proposes to correct it.
the majority of the committee on the environment has also dropped a few minor points.
the majority of the committee on the environment has followed the council in its view that a member state should be able to set the noise indicator lden differently.
- mr president, environmental noise is a very old environmental problem, which has not been taken seriously for a very long time.
well, situations like the one we have now, for example, when i look at my own living environment, will have to be avoided.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
fortunately, this is very different from noise pollution.
in other words, noise pollution is a local or regional problem.
the internal market justifies environmental policy at european level, in order to promote fair competition.
this means that european standards can be set for the safety and environmental performance of products and processes.
examples of processes are waste incineration and energy generation.
the council is already going very far with the environmental noise directive.
member states may themselves map noise pollution if they so wish.
moreover, even if we had such a map, i still do not want a european policy on environmental noise.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr alexander de roo on his tenacity in the fight against noise pollution.
noise pollution is particularly annoying and can be a health hazard.
health is linked to the environment and to the way we pollute it.
the sixth environmental action programme rightly pays great attention to this.
noise pollution is local and certainly not transnational.
for example, european rules on noise pollution already exist, for example on the noise standards for lawnmowers.
in the event of serious complaints about noise pollution, there should be a right to further investigation and action if necessary.
- the next item is the report (a5-0287/2001) by mr lange, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 97/68/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to measures against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from internal combustion engines to non-road mobile machinery (com (2000) 840 - c5-0742/2000 - 2000/0336 (cod)).
national initiatives for an innovative environment and reward for results will have to improve competitiveness.
what makes europe's regions an attractive environment for innovation?
instead of tackling overcapacity by raising taxes on fuel - which would remove their competitive advantage over more environmentally friendly forms of transport - the focus is once again on reducing pollution in favour of the continued development of air traffic and airports.
mr de roo rightly proposes that parliament's previous choices on limiting night noise, short deadlines, clearer definitions of noise and subsidiary directives on noise emissions from lorries, buses, motorcycles, railways and aircraft should be retained, also at second reading.
america threatens us through continuing global warming, a missile shield from the star wars era, hormone-laden meat, noisy airplanes, the echelon listening system, a patent monopoly and a dollar which, as an international means of payment, has for decades been passing the deficits of the us balance of payments on to the outside world.
restricting access to the european market for american products made in poor working and environmental conditions could force america to be more concerned about work, the environment, public health, animal abuse, human rights and peace.
it would therefore be preferable to allocate galileo funds to environmental protection and useful collective equipment.
the european heads of government recognized this development almost ten years ago and agreed in maastricht to work towards a sustainable budgetary position.
when it came to climate, gun control and racism, the american president sought isolation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
on 30 march last year, we in parliament declared that people and their genes or cells in the natural environment are not patentable.
in other words: 5.1 says: no patent on a gene, whereas 5.2 says, the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we must therefore ensure that the number of installations which threaten the survival of human society and our environment is kept to a minimum.
- mr president, i share the view of the european commission that there are benefits to effective public participation in environmental decision-making.
in addition, the 'policy' component is not covered by the scope of the current 'environmental impact assessment' directive.
look around you, you are already doing it, it is a beautiful building and you will understand that we do not mind if the cooperation develops in such a way that parliament meets only in brussels and we would gladly give you this environment.
there is still much to be done, including in our house, for example in terms of differentiated waste management and the use of environmentally friendly materials, saving electricity, drawing up a mobility plan for both staff and members.
parliament has a role to play in setting an example, including in the implementation of good environmental objectives, and i would be grateful if we could start doing so next year, 2002.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on fisheries.
i would therefore like to warmly congratulate the president-in-office of the council on his statement that our policy towards the outside world, including in the context of globalisation, must be based on ethical, social and ecological standards and must take account of the interests of the third world.
-(nl) most of the companies that used to consume the energy produced at chernobyl, and which made it possible to finance the maintenance of such a gigantic nuclear reactor complex, have disappeared since the collapse of the soviet union.
behind the first building erected just after the 1986 disaster, a dangerous fire continues to burn, so that nuclear energy remains a source of risk for the future.
a new round of trade is necessary to restore some confidence in the world economy and to pave the way for renewed sustainable growth.
without an adequate regulatory mechanism, we run too great a risk of the benefits of trade being distributed very unequally and of environmental and social standards being undermined.
think of the impact of wto rules on issues like the environment, food safety, workers' rights, the freedom of governments to regulate public services without risking being sued by profit-seeking multinationals.
if the programme for the next three-year round of trade negotiations, which will be adopted at the ministerial conference, does not provide a solid basis for progress in the areas of democracy, poverty reduction, environmental protection, growth in developing countries, defence of public services, then we social democrats believe that this could have very negative consequences for the course of the current debate on globalisation, and ultimately for globalisation itself.
(applause)
mr president, on behalf of my colleagues in the socialist and the christian democratic group i would like to make an oral amendment to paragraph 9. it should read as follows: "...welcomes the fact that the commission came forward with the announced packet of the three climate change proposals".
i also want to congratulate the commission for doing this before the very important climate change conference in marrakesh, cop 7.
in writing.
it is trying to impose standards on its member states, whereby the protection of jobs, the environment and public services is subordinated to free trade and the protection of large international companies.
the wto is trying to maintain this perverse situation and is thus a threat to well-being, the environment and democracy.
the precise impact on fish stocks and the environment is unfortunately still unknown.
however, sustainable fishing can only be achieved if there is room within the allowable catch limits for an efficient fleet.
it is therefore necessary that, on the one hand, services of general interest be provided in a competitive environment.
these services, which are indispensable for communications, the environment and the restriction of space occupation, cannot exist without the extensive support of the public administration.
unfortunately, a commission proposal contains the same obligations in the matter of awarding contracts also for regions which, on the basis of practical experience, prefer the sustainable survival of a company with its own authority in the matter, or the continuation of a long-standing contract with a small private company.
electric cars, metro and small bus lines are not covered by the obligation, but they are better able to protect the environment and the workforce.
this in turn has adverse effects, inter alia, on the environment, on the excessive use of space and on all kinds of additional problems which we, as greens, are also faced with.
if, then, we consider that there is no competition within these ports, as here formulated, we would like, above all, for safety and environmental reasons, to withdraw our services from the pilot programme.
it should be noted that the rapporteur has taken account of port-specific circumstances and has attempted to integrate both safety, environmental and social standards requirements and economic needs of ports into his report.
an orderly and methodical distribution of these ports saves public money and provides port workers with more employment and more sustainable, unnecessary highs and lows.
i've seen very few reports on this level of energy.
the commission's green paper was a good one, but with this supplement i think we have a large number of elements for an energy policy for the european union.
a major concern is, of course, as mr chichester rightly wrote, our energy dependence.
this means that not only oil and gas supply, but also new forms of energy must be sought, that it is necessary to seek renewable sources of energy, but that nuclear energy must also not be ignored.
we cannot say that we cannot use nuclear energy, because in this case we have the biggest problems in europe.
mr president, it is constantly said that without a specific chapter on energy it is not possible to do anything.
mr president, a particular energy is when we consider the events of 11 september as geopolitical developments which are closely linked.
i hope, therefore, that an energy charter will be ratified as soon as possible and that we will continue to develop the caspian sea basin, because in this way we will also be able to reduce a little bit our dependence on europe.
now it is clear that i would also like to do so, really, but a committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has said that, if a policy on chemicals is too overloaded, the ship will sink, which seems to me to be sufficient reason to take it out of the cargo.
in this way, the greatest benefits for the environment and public health, while remaining, for industry, as social and economic consequences, are automatically obtained within the limits of the allowable limits.
(nl) mr president, i wholeheartedly support the principles which underpin the strategy for a future eu chemicals policy, namely the maintenance of a high level of protection for man and the environment, the effective functioning of the internal market, the improvement of the industry's ability to innovate and the strengthening of its competitiveness.
(nl) mr president, madam commissioner, the mountain of waste is constantly growing.
as packaging is only a small part of the environmental problem, it is, in fact, a visible part of it and, for many people, a source of indignation.
packaging can be seen as an example of a modern approach to environmental problems.
we must make sustainable development a reality.
the packaging directive has two objectives: to reduce as far as possible the environmental impact of packaging and to guarantee the functioning of the internal market.
firstly, the quantity of packaging waste continues to increase.
secondly, our waste, increases a percentage of plastic.
each member state has its own method of calculating data, for example, it is not clear whether plastic waste exported is included in the final figures.
finally, i would like to mention an important point: in fact, the environmental impact of all this collection, sorting, recycling and reuse is not clear.
we think it is good, and perhaps it is, but it is really necessary to carry out an adequate environmental impact assessment to continue to motivate consumers to separate waste.
it is necessary to develop better environmental impact studies, to have better definitions, and, in addition, to propose a triple approach.
to this end, it is necessary to identify situations in which reuse makes sense, from an environmental point of view, in relation to transport distances and material commodities.
producers must demonstrate, on the basis of a life cycle analysis, that they have chosen the best possible packaging for their product from an environmental point of view.
co2 emissions, use of natural resources, and harmful substances and wastes must also be counted in all cases.
this approach allows for environmental costs to be included in the price of the products, and this should be our objective.
we must establish more clear environmental frontiers.
interested parties should be invited by sector, not just industry, but also consumers and representatives of environmental organisations.
the long awaited revision of the packaging directive is an opportunity to show that the internal market is compatible with the environment, an opportunity we cannot afford to lose.
i would also like to thank my own colleagues who have put a lot of energy into this dossier.
moreover, unlike the commission, we have given much higher priority to transport, alongside greater attention to energy.
in addition, our group wanted to follow amendment no 22 by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
- mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i should like to thank the commission for the proposal for upward convergence of excise duties on tobacco.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has rightly concluded that access to water is a human right and that water is therefore not a commercial product.
the question is how to combat water scarcity and pollution.
this shows that money and prestige continue to take precedence over sustainable environmental management.
this practice leads to a significant waste of material.
it seems ecological to blame the consumer who buys packaged food or other consumer products.
these consumers do not produce this waste, which they receive through their purchases.
they become victims of a paired sale because it is now impossible, in many cases, to buy a product without the waste it contains.
that is why we must fight directly the production and purchase of waste, not the consumers.
it is therefore right that mrs corbey, in the proposed resolution, holds manufacturers and sellers responsible for the prevention of packaging waste, while noting that the 1994 packaging directive has not produced any conclusive results.
i wholeheartedly support his attempt to prevent waste.
i am opposed to the consumer paying for all this waste.
until now, this expansion has posed considerable environmental problems due to increased nuisance and insecurity and the increasing space allocated to airports.
the convention must engage in an open dialogue with civil society, because part of europe's future lies in increased european cooperation in those areas where citizens expect cross-border results, such as food security, immigration, environmental pollution, international crime and terrorism.
but under the influence of those who think they can make political money out of xenophobic feelings, a climate of hesitation has arisen.
this leads to a deterioration of the political climate which feeds the mill of terrorism.
- the agenda calls for the joint debate on five recommendations for second reading :- a5-0433/2001 on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services (authorisation directive) [10419/1/2001 - c5-0417/2001 - 2000/0188 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs niebler); - a5-0432/2001 by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a regulatory framework for radio spectrum policy in the european community (radio spectrum decision) (rapporteur: mrs niebler); - a5-0435/2001 by mr paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (framework directive) [10420/1/2001 - c5-0415/2001 - 2000/0184 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr paasilinna); - a5-0434/2001 by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position established by the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on access to, and interconnection of, electronic communications networks and associated facilities (access directive) [10418/1/2001 - c5-0416/2001 - 2000/0186 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr brunetta); - a5-438/2001 by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services (universal service directive) [10421/1/2001 - c5-0418/2001 - 2000/0183 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr harbour)
- mr president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the president-in-office for his clear-cut language, because he is simply saying: it's take it or leave it.
i think that kind of cultural factors play a much bigger role than just the regulatory climate.
there was also a great deal of fear that failure would undermine a number of issues that affect us all deeply, such as development, the right to make your own domestic policy, workers' rights, and the environment.
on the environment and trade side, we have put a number of items on the agenda which we feared until the last moment that they would not make it.
- (nl) the fisheries agreements concluded by the eu with developing countries are harmful both to the environment and to these countries.
the environmental problem must be tackled at its source, by reducing the capacity of the fleet, not by going fishing elsewhere.
finally, i would stress that the main driving force for the eu in the fight for environmental and social standards should not be distortion of competition but market access and welfare of poor countries.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0420/2001) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position on the adoption of a community action programme in the field of public health (2001-06) (rapporteur: mr trakatellis).
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0408/2001), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council common position on undesirable substances in animal feed (rapporteur: mrs paulsen).
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0406/2001), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position on the reduction of the level of pollutant emissions from two- or three-wheel motor vehicles (rapporteur: mr lange).
the european parliament's majority will make classic air pollution a thing of the past in a few years' time.
it is a pity that the ministers for the environment do not want to accept this reasonableness.
the importance of no more ozone and much less acidification is more important than the short-term interest of a number of manufacturers.
i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the citizens who call on us must be able to obtain timely answers and, moreover, we must prevent irreparable damage to the environment and our monuments.
the european union's foreign policy should be directed primarily towards support for human rights and sustainable development.
in europe, there are wide differences between member states in the risks of marine pollution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
it is of the utmost importance that we on the european side try to use this grand coalition to exert pressure so that we continue to act multilaterally: of course, investing heavily in new technologies and then having too little money, attention and energy to fight global poverty is ultimately not the most effective path to shared security.