the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
a rural policy guided by regional criteria and equity between farmers must be designed to preserve europe's cultural heritage and the environment.
i also stress here, as does the rapporteur, that i welcome the conclusion of the lisbon summit which calls for a climate of encouragement for the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises, in particular a regulatory framework conducive to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of the environment and public health the main problem with european legislation is not that it fails to produce adequate legislation.
the environmental directives under discussion, on pcbs, nitrates and habitats, are examples of this.
we are therefore faced with a general picture of non-compliance and for that reason these directives have not produced the environmental results that were expected.
it is a policy of regional rather than sectoral agriculture, and it gives priority to the environment, rural development, vocational training and early retirement.
since the beginning of the negotiations we have been confronted with an intransigent stance on the part of the moroccan negotiators, who have used the arguments of 'sustainability of fisheries resources' with us to reduce the possibilities of access to the european union's fishing fleet.
we have also seen the disastrous effects of successive floods and erosion, and also the dangers and consequences of this tremendous ecological and health disaster which arises from the presence of arsenic in water used for drinking.
the question which arises from the outset and in the context of what we have just mentioned is what the real objectives and priorities are that this new agreement is intended to achieve and, in general, what effects it is intended to achieve in terms of sustainable development in the field of administration, as well as at the level of participation of citizens and their organizations in the life of the country.
finally, because it would be incomprehensible and even paradoxical if our countries had participated in peace-keeping and human rights missions in the balkans and had not resolved a serious public health and environmental problem affecting the very populations they were intended to protect.
nevertheless, three amendments which i felt were important and which i tabled were accepted, namely: - the need to focus on sustainable and high-quality agricultural production, not only by strengthening existing mechanisms such as designations of origin, support for organic farming and support for indigenous breeds, but also by creating concrete support mechanisms for regional products of particular quality, in order to contribute to ensuring safe agricultural products with high added value; - the need to increase the amounts allocated to rural development and the structural funds to support and create extensive public service networks, create infrastructure and boost local markets in the rural world; (ii) the need to simplify and consolidate the legislation concerning young farmers.
the use of such weapons by the us and other nato countries during the gulf war, in bosnia and kosovo, has already caused the death of many soldiers, the suffering and death of the inhabitants of the bombed areas and the pollution of the environment in the affected areas, with medium and long-term consequences not only for current generations but also for future generations, which is prohibited by the geneva convention and which clearly shows that there are no "clean wars".
- (pt) we agree with some of the points made in this report, in particular the need to develop transport infrastructure in the sense of environmental sustainability, the preservation and strengthening of the right to mobility of all citizens and the accessibility of transport services of public interest, although we felt that these points deserved greater attention throughout the resolution.
and because this plan, which focuses on eliminating the cultivation and trafficking of drugs (through the attack on producers, especially by the use of chemical and biological fumigation), not only threatens colombia's rich biodiversity but will tend to accentuate the plight of the displaced, who may even become refugees in neighbouring countries.
we have activities amounting to eur 1.3 million over recent years for programmes to protect the environment and tropical forests.
a5-0031/2001 by mr bakopoulos, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the maritime safety committee and amending the regulations on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships (com (2000) 489 - c5-0475/2000 - 2000/0236 (cod)) and on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending the directives on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships (com (2000) 489 - c5-0476/2000 - 2000/0237 (cod)).
(the president cut off the speaker)
- mr president, the last few years have presented us with a completely new picture: the conversion of pharmaceutical companies into biotechnology companies, the explosion in the number of companies developing genetically modified organisms, the allocation of ever more public and private funds to support research in the field of genetics, the legal race for patents on gmo seeds and even patents for the manipulation of the human genome, the merger and splitting at a truly astonishing speed of biotechnology companies, and even the emergence of new political frontiers and a new discourse on ethics, agriculture, public health, the environment, hunger and poverty.
the answer lies in the right balance between freedom of inquiry and the imperative of protecting public health and the environment.
i believe that this work on the revision of the directive on the deliberate release of gmos into the environment respects this balance, because on the one hand it does not restrict research and experimentation and on the other hand it defines clearer and more restrictive rules on the release of gmos into the environment, protecting the consumer and biodiversity.
however, the revision of this directive will only be complete when the commission has put forward legislative initiatives which will give concrete expression to the principles of environmental responsibility and the labelling and traceability of products containing gmos.
more recently, the lisbon european council set the union's strategic objective of making it the most dynamic and competitive economic area on the planet, based on knowledge and capable of ensuring sustainable economic growth, creating more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
it is essential that in this new regime the commission takes account of the enormous socioeconomic importance of these fruits for the southern countries, as well as their environmental value in the fight against desertification.
the climate of crisis must not be perpetuated.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in these circumstances, we cannot help but wonder whether certain fishing gear, such as the hook, could be putting the sustainability of tuna stocks in the north atlantic in question.
and this new integrated agenda is emerging in a climate and on a stage where europe is facing moments of uncertainty and mistrust in the quality of certain products.
finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must stress and emphasize that in this agenda we cannot forget - as the rapporteur said - other points which will be incorporated but which will form part of the november 2001 round, which have to do with the social and environmental aspects and the defence of a model of sustainable development so that what is being globalised is not only wealth but also economic and social progress and development.
- mr president, the growing concern of the people about the consequences of global trade liberalization, which was clearly evident at the demonstrations in seattle and at the world social forum in porto alegre, has some resonance in this report, which stresses the need for transparency in the preparation and conduct of the negotiations, better parliamentary control, and respect for the principles of precaution and sustainable development.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
this correction would ensure fairness for portuguese farmers and the sustainability of beet production, which, moreover, could and should be increased when the alqueva dam is operational.
if there are dairy companies that are unable to distinguish tens of thousands of tons of mistletoe made from animal waste, oils and chemicals from real butter, how can consumers trust their competence to ensure the quality of their products?
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs eija-riita korhola and the committee on the environment on the improvements they propose to the text before us.
access to environmental information should be regarded as one of the essential pillars of an effective environmental policy because it contributes to a greater public awareness of environmental issues, because it thus improves the protection and quality of the environment, because it allows more effective monitoring of whether community environmental legislation is being applied fully and effectively and, finally, because it allows citizens to participate more effectively in environmental decision-making that may affect their lives.
- (pt) the amendments tabled are largely based on correct assumptions, with a view to effective reduction of polluting emissions, protection of the environment and public health, which do not justify the derogations presented in the proposal for a council common position, in so far as: - desulphurisation processes are no longer as expensive as in the past, they tend to decrease considerably.
in addition, it is clear that considerable progress has been made in this field; - the challenge of methods of increasing energy efficiency by combustion reactions using catalyst systems, which contribute not only to the reduction of carbon compounds but also to the reduction of other pollutants, is no longer to be demonstrated.
- (pt) the report reveals very limited options for the effective reduction of emissions and the protection of the environment and public health, since the extremely modest limits proposed are clearly a compromise with economic interests and deviate from the values recommended by the world health organization, and therefore from the needs of environmental protection and public health which it is supposed to defend.
- the next item is the report (a5-0063/2001) by mr carraro, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament - the organisation and management of the internet - international and european issues 1998-2000 (com (2000) 202 - c5-0263/2000 - 2000/2140 (cos)).
as is well known, portugal was actively involved in the drafting of the water management directive, seeking to give priority to fundamental aspects of the protection and sustainable use of water, taking account of the climatic and geographical conditions of the iberian peninsula.
with the aim of integrated water management, optimising objectives appropriate to the specific conditions of the regions of the european union, the rules of the framework directive will enable, now and in the future, and with the collaboration of governments, the implementation of hydrological plans which take account of such important aspects as water quality, the preservation of adequate flow rates, the climate and the protection of biodiversity and the environment.
- (pt) it is regrettable that parliament has not considered it appropriate to defend before the commission and the council a new type of sustainable development, creating quality jobs and guaranteeing a high level of social protection, as was advocated in the motion for a resolution tabled by our group.
it stressed the need to speed up the liberalisation of telecommunications, mail, energy and transport, irrespective of the consequences for employment, regional cohesion, working conditions and a quality universal public service.
it is moving towards a logic of liberalization and generalization of the use of products, in the name of good causes, which have not all known consequences for the environment and human health, and which raise profound ethical questions, such as genetic modification and the patentability of living and nature, which is a heritage belonging to everyone.
it is a country in a region of the world where major strategic and energy interests converge.
it is urgent and urgent to support and help this vaguely mythical country which has managed the miracle of establishing a democratic life in what is considered such a hostile environment.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0104/2001) by mr trakatellis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision adopting a programme of community action in the field of public health (2001-2006) (com (2000) 285 - c5-0299/2000 - 2000/0119 (cod)).
concrete measures are essential in the context of a global strategy, which is crucial to a new international economic order, and which is aimed at implementing and strengthening the 1986 united nations declaration which recognises the right to sustainable development as an undeniable human right.
since control is important to ensure responsible, sustainable and fair fishing, the community should finance the costs involved and the necessary investments, taking into account that it is the responsibility of each member state to implement the scheme in its exclusive economic zone.
the rapporteur's proposal, which we support, aims to give the same possibility to conventional farms and to farms under an agri-environmental programme with a view to a large complex of fodder legumes, bearing in mind the importance, as we proposed in the case of portugal, of beans, lupine and yellow lupine.
sustainable agriculture, which promotes regional specificities and diversification of support to agricultural producers, taking into account different levels of agricultural development.
it must be stressed, however, that the meagre victories of the lisbon strategy in the social field are due to the struggle of workers and all progressives who demand an economy more oriented towards people's problems and towards sustainable development, as is the case with us.
firstly, as regards the balkans, i cannot help criticising the unacceptable and blatant interference and blackmailing of the federal republic of yugoslavia by the united states, while attempts are being made to whitewash and cover up the responsibility of nato and all those who have waged war against yugoslavia, in flagrant violation of the un charter and in contempt of the security council, by using depleted uranium weapons whose chemical and radiological effects on the population and the environment are still difficult to assess.
it is unacceptable that, in the face of increasingly dramatic forecasts of the effect of global warming, the main contributor to greenhouse gas emissions should remain outside the only international instrument designed to limit these effects; but, however serious this decision may be, we cannot doubt or hesitate about the need to implement the kyoto protocol, with or without the united states.
the need to curb climate change is urgent, and the kyoto protocol (rather than any other type of agreement) is the most appropriate policy instrument to achieve this.
the eu is also working to improve the quality of its energy supply, both internally by combating the very negative increase in greenhouse gas emissions in all member states, and externally by negotiating the terms of application of the protocol with as many countries as possible so that it can be ratified and implemented in 2002. but the european union must also fight for the application of fair trade rules so that the united states does not derive illegitimate economic benefits from non-ratification of the protocol.
for this reason, the european union must now, rather than trying to maintain a deaf dialogue with the united states, implement an action plan to implement the provisions of the kyoto protocol at the global level - that is, with as many countries as possible - and urgently by the end of 2002. an action plan which involves the achievement of all the following programmed objectives: (i) negotiating, even before cop21, the modalities of the kyoto protocol with russia, japan, australia, canada and the countries of central and eastern europe, so as to reach an agreement which can be ratified by more than 55 parties, corresponding to more than 55% of emissions (minimum limit for the entry into force of the kyoto protocol); (ii) the ratification of the kyoto protocol by the european union by the end of 2001; (iii) approval of national plans for the reduction of greenhouse gases by the end of 2001; (iv) the presentation of the directive on the implementation of the european emissions trading system by the end of 2001; (v) the presentation, within the framework of the european climate change programme, of a set of armored guidelines on policies and measures to reduce greenhouse gases in industry, energy, services, agriculture and, above all, in the transport sector - the sector with the fastest growing emissions; (vi) the european commission's preparation of an economic study on the competitive advantages that american products, and more specifically energy products, will illegally obtain over european products, as a result of the non-application of the kyoto protocol; (vii) the european commission's preparation of a legal study determining how to minimise, within the framework of supranational institutions and in particular the world trade organisation and the transatlantic economic partnership, these illegitimate advantages mentioned in the previous point.
- mr president, i would like to support the positions of our colleague jorge moreira da silva, who led our delegation to the hague conference on climate change and was very committed to the compromise that was fortunately reached on this resolution.
fourth and lastly, the european union must do more and take effective leadership, both internally in combating the emissions slide which is now taking place in most of our 15 member states and externally in ensuring that kyoto is ratified by as many countries as possible so that it can enter into force before 2002.
however, one positive element must be emphasized, namely the rapporteur's emphasis on investment, in particular on the importance of public investment, which the commission had completely forgotten, as a determining factor in the sustainability of economic growth and job creation.
i would remind you that in the context of the general guidelines for 2002, which were adopted on 3 april last and which are an important instrument of budgetary policy, the e-learning initiative is expressly considered as an important step towards the strategic objective set by the lisbon european council of ensuring sustainable economic growth based on knowledge, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
- the next item is the report (a5-0135/2001) by mrs breyer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal and amended proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing the list of priority substances in the field of water (com (2000) 47 - com (2001) 17 - c5-0079/2000 - c5-0021/2001 - 2000/0035 (cod)).
- (pt) we voted for amendments nos 1, 10, 2 and 12, not because we agree with a productivist policy within the cap, which will have to be reviewed in the interests of producers, consumers, environmental protection and food quality, but because we believe that dubious restrictions, in this case on the number of male bovine animals benefiting from the special premium for beef, isolated from a comprehensive and articulated reform, are meaningless and create situations of injustice in relation to the premiums fixed for other types of agricultural and animal production, which remain unchanged.
a very special note is made of the excellent study on the environmental impact of the common organization of the market in olive oil, which was prepared for the commission's directorate-general for the environment by accredited agro-environmental analysis institutes and which i quote extensively in this speech.
their heritage and landscape value in preserving floods and landslides or in increasing biodiversity is invaluable.
the value of the production subsidy is too low here and the abandonment of the traditional olive grove is taking place throughout the mediterranean, with the inevitable negative consequences for the environment and rural development.
this system of production-related aid not only encourages the human and environmental desertification of the south of our continent, but also facilitates the activities of olive oil adulterators who conspire against the community budget, against the consumer's right to buy a natural and quality product and against farmers.
the preservation and improvement of the environment and farmers' incomes is the primary objective of the agricultural chapter of the treaty.
however, what we are doing now benefits the agro-industrial complex more than agriculture, desertifies disadvantaged rural areas, has negative environmental impacts and facilitates counterfeiting.
we must therefore abandon the old system of the cmos, which encouraged physical productivity, and create a new cap, which is focused on protecting farmers' incomes, the countryside, quality and the environment.
the focus is on issues of interest to economic groups and multinational corporations, and social issues, including health and education, the environment, development and cultural diversity, are neglected.
- (pt) this report addresses a problem of the utmost importance for the future well-being of workers in the european union, who must be guaranteed secure and sustainable pension schemes in the long term.
i would stress that it is particularly important that you have supported the proposals we are advocating on the need to reform the common agricultural policy on the basis of the principle that it is necessary to encourage and support the development and implementation of strategies for integrating environmental issues into the relevant sectoral policies, and that it is also necessary to protect agricultural production which takes account of food security, the precautionary principle and food sovereignty, promoting regional specificities and farming methods linked to nature.
the importance of renewable raw materials will also increase as efforts are made to achieve a more sustainable economic system, with particular emphasis on forests and farmland.
however, in order to allow for sustainable development and economic and social cohesion, it is essential that internal support arrangements take particular account of the situation of farmers and family farming, as well as the legitimacy of specific support for goods and services of public interest in the framework of multifunctional agriculture.
the lisbon council decisions, the employment guidelines for 2001, the social agenda and the new treaty wording define the importance of increasing the employment of women, quantitatively and qualitatively, not only to give effect to a right but above all to economic equilibrium and the sustainability of pensions.
here, in this parliament, not long ago, we all had the opportunity to see an exhibition on the serious waste of cyprus' cultural heritage, perpetrated under the complacent eye of the authorities of a country which, by the way, is also a candidate for enlargement of the union.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire, and on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0187/2001) by mr davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on ozone in ambient air (13114/1/2000 - c5-0090/2001 - 1999/0068 (cod)).
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the oral question (b5-0326/2001) by mr westendorp y cabeza, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, to the council on the wto panel/section 211.
it is essential to make progress in gothenburg in support of peace in the middle east, respect for the rights of the palestinian people, protection of the environment and sustainable development.
- (pt) sustainable development is at the top of the international agenda.
next year the international community will meet in johannesburg at the rio+10 summit, precisely to update its strategy for sustainable development.
the international frenzy around this fundamental concept - sustainability (which is to say solidarity between future generations and solidarity between peoples) - is more about adhering to a long-planned timetable than about implementing a strategy.
ten years after the earth summit in rio de janeiro, which marked the world's commitment to development that combines not only the economic and social but also the environmental dimensions, signs of unsustainability persist.
from worsening global warming to the depletion of the ozone layer.
from the proliferation of chemicals, especially those that are organically persistent, to the depletion of biodiversity.
from the accumulation of industrial waste to the congestion of cities.
and of course, there is this horrible signal that proves that our growth model is not sustainable: poverty and social exclusion.
it will simultaneously approve new sustainable development policies for the european union and lay the foundations for a global strategy to be agreed in johannesburg.
the swedish government's decision to conclude its presidency of the european union with a council devoted to sustainable development is to be congratulated on - and the political agenda has been a very refreshing one.
the document prepared by the european commission to serve as a basis for the decisions of the council ("a sustainable europe for a better world") is also to be welcomed.
1) the the gothenburg council must give birth to a comprehensive strategy for sustainable development the european union must lead the global debate on a new growth model based on new production and consumption methods.
in the era of globalisation, we need european sustainable development policies and goals that aim to contribute to and strengthen global sustainable development policies and goals.
in this connection, i hope that the council will approve the following objectives: - reduction of european greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels; - elimination of subsidies to the production and consumption of fossil fuels by 2010; - alternative fuels must account for more than 7% of all fuels used in road transport by 2010 and more than 20% by 2020; - implement the new community chemicals policy by 2004 and ensure the total eradication of all chemicals harmful to the environment and human health by 2020; - adopt a plan (with implications for agricultural and health policies) to reduce human resistance to antibiotics as early as 2001; - completely halt the depletion of biodiversity by 2010; - adoption of environmental liability legislation by 2003; - promote public road, rail and maritime transport so that by 2010 road transport use is below 1998 levels; - encourage the use of renewable energy by aiming for 12% by 2010 and 50% by 2040.
there is little point in setting environmental objectives if the policies, especially the common policies, which are the vehicle for achieving these objectives, prove to be inadequate.
it is therefore essential that the council indicate when and how the common policies of the european union which are not of a sustainable nature will be reformed.
a5-0163/2001 by mr linkohr, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission on the supply of oil to the european union (com (2000) 631 - c5-0739/2000 - 2000/2335 (cos)).
community aid should be increased and not reduced; 4 - new measures of an agro-environmental nature and rural development and adaptation should be launched and, finally, the commission should submit new proposals if some of the measures prove insufficient or expire before 2006.
mr president, the extension of the specific programmes to support agriculture in the outermost regions is a measure of basic necessity.
but the commission's proposal is short, in most cases simply prolonging the status quo, without taking account of the new market dynamics and the increasing difficulty of these regions to compete on international markets since the world trade organisation was signed in 1999. it is against this background and in view of the inadequacy of the commission's proposal that i would like to emphasize in a very special way the role played by the rapporteur, mr miguel angel martínez martínez, who was able to work with all his colleagues in a climate of good dialogue and commitment and with a result that clearly improves the commission's proposal.
however, on the basis of article 299 (2) of the treaty of amsterdam, which recognises the specific nature of these regions and the need to adopt appropriate community measures, it is possible to take measures to promote sustainable development and to strengthen the productive sectors which generate employment, and it is therefore important to use this legal basis, irrespective of the reference to the articles of the cap, the structural funds or other community policies.
as regards the first package of proposals, which aims at revising the rates of assistance from the structural funds to increase, it is important that greater efforts be made by slightly increasing the rates of community cofinancing, especially as regards agri-environmental measures and public aid to the productive sector, given that these regions are among the poorest in the european union and their production, processing and marketing structures need to be strengthened.
the european commission must immediately assess the effects of its policy, both in the waters of west africa where it is applied directly and in the fishing communities of the azores and madeira and in the processing of azorean tuna canning where its consequences are felt, by reversing its policy of supporting overfishing and industrial and predatory fishing methods in order to defend sustainable fisheries and fishing communities.
let us listen to the angolans, let us trust that internal mediation and the energy of civil movements can achieve where international mediation has failed.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in angola there is still war, destruction and the needless and shocking waste of human life.
and you cannot even use the argument that it is intensive agriculture and an enemy of the environment, quite the contrary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is more than an environmental issue, it has become a truly symbolic issue on the international political agenda.
on the one hand, action has never been so urgent as it is today: the recent forecasts by the intergovernmental panel on climate change leave no room for doubt.
in april this year, the european parliament also adopted guidelines indicating as political priorities the issues in the progress report i have just mentioned, as well as food security and consumer confidence, linked to sustainable agriculture, the setting of priorities and better implementation of funds in external policy and, in general, better budgetary implementation, very concrete aspects such as e-learning, an essential element of the priority always given to employment and social inclusion issues, the development of asylum and immigration policy.
we are thinking, for example, of the introduction of a tobin tax to reduce capital gains from financial transactions, of a tax on co2 emissions by companies at european level.
the latter solution would also have positive effects in order to impose a future-oriented environmental policy: it would increase the pressure for more environmentally friendly energy production processes and would promote the achievement of the objectives of the kyoto protocol.
- (pt) the report critically analyses the proposal for a recommendation on the implementation of integrated coastal zone management in europe and proposes various amendments, most of which deserve our support, whether on the importance of coastal zones or the causes of the degradation and destruction of different areas, as well as the new threats arising from global warming and climate change, which are perhaps the greatest threat to european coastal zones.
i share parliament's concern about the environment in beijing and china more generally, and about the effects of the preparations for the games on the city.
during my visit in may, i met a number of genuine chinese non-governmental organisations working in the field of the environment.
i have the strong impression that china will not be able to achieve the environmental protection objectives it has set itself without the help of civil society, which has mobilised itself voluntarily.
it is essential to relax the rules governing the establishment and operation of genuine grassroots ngos in order to bring together the energy and commitment of a population of over a billion people.
one is environmental, one is economic, and one is governance.
on the environmental front, this conference will go down in history as the one that brought to an end the ten-year-long talks and negotiations on climate change and allowed us to finally take action.
but the alternative to this baby step was incomparably worse: without a political agreement in bonn, the kyoto protocol would be dead and we would have to waste another ten years in drawing up a global policy to mitigate climate change.
i would therefore like to congratulate commissioner margot wallström on her excellent political leadership of this dossier since her election, and i would also like to congratulate her on her announcement today that she will be presenting to this house the process of ratifying the kyoto protocol and the concrete measures at the level of the emissions trading system and the european programme on climate change.
i would also like to highlight the good cooperation that the european parliament delegation, the commissioner for the environment and the council, through the belgian presidency, established throughout the conference.
the second message from bonn concerns the change in the economic paradigm: from the combustion-based economy of fire to the carbon economy.
in this economy, the ton of carbon has a price, and carbon dioxide emissions represent a cost to be included in the overall composition of all products and in the financial statements of all companies.
it is that, more than an environmental dossier, climate change has become a symbolic issue of the environmental regulation of globalisation.
not only prices, but also safety conditions, comfort - distances between seats, for example - and also, for example, air quality (one of the aspects that has been mentioned is that flights have become non-smoking flights, it is true, but the safety conditions against pollution have been reduced to reduce the costs of air transport).
this increase shows that the traditional means of judicial and police cooperation are not sufficient, especially if we take into account that new forms of terrorism are constantly emerging, as in the case of cyber or environmental terrorism.
what is at stake here today is simply the adaptation of the articles of the statute to the new regulatory environment, which has fortunately been making important steps towards building a genuine citizens' europe, reinforcing the urgency of a modern administration that is increasingly open and transparent.
it is a waste of lives, innocent blood being shed, violence that we cannot but condemn.
the commission's report on the activities of the cohesion fund in 1999 shows that, as in previous years, it continues to pursue the immediate objectives for which it was set up, namely to provide the so-called cohesion countries, portugal, spain, greece and ireland, with economic infrastructure in the fields of the environment and transport.
only in 1999 did it finance the extension of madeira airport and a major solid waste treatment plant.
but we have even more reason to be pleased with the cohesion fund's activity in 1999. in fact, the physical and financial implementation of the projects supported, the allocation of appropriations between the environment and transport, compliance with community legislation on the environment and the distribution of funds among the beneficiary countries continued to comply with the fund's operating rules.
sis cannot continue to be operated in secret on a purely intergovernmental basis: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more and more european citizens are affected by environmental noise, but despite this the european union has been slow to implement a common noise policy.
i supported your report in the committee on the environment and i support it again.
we also know that this external pressure is accompanied by internal pressure from states facing population decline caused by either slowing population growth or a decline in the working age population, an increasing population over 65 years of age and growing concern about the sustainability of social security systems.
understanding this means that it is right to accept, in an unfavourable international environment, the inevitable loss of revenue and the consequent increase in the public deficit, provided that it does not exceed 3%, as the honourable member has rightly said.
the attempt to define what a sustainable tax relief should be is therefore to be welcomed.
we also reject its call for the member states to liberalize the energy, transport and postal markets rapidly and uniformly.
the rapporteur is not content to agree with the commission's proposal, but stresses the need to accelerate and complete the process of liberalisation in sectors such as postal services, electricity and energy, which we reject because it is generally a question of confining the state to a simple function of regulating public service activities, by creating regulatory bodies, allegedly independent, directly or indirectly controlled by economic and financial groups.
it is precisely in the field of the environment that the dissatisfaction of the populations has been most keenly felt, who, disagreeing, often with reason, with a certain project, have no other option but to demonstrate their right to indignation in the streets or in the courts.
this indignation is growing exponentially when many of these projects with unacceptable environmental impacts are financed under the common agricultural policy and the structural funds.
it is therefore very important that, following the aarhus convention, the commission has been legislating on public access to environmental information, on public participation in certain plans, programmes and policies, and on public access to justice.
on this proposal for a directive on public participation in the drawing up of environmental plans and programmes, i congratulate the rapporteur on the work she has done, in particular for seeking, through several amendments, to extend the rights of citizens and to remove some ambiguities.
- (pt) effective public participation in the development of environmental plans and programmes is of paramount importance, and therefore the dissemination of information to the public, particularly via the internet, is necessary.
other areas are directly linked to the environment and require public participation - the structural funds, the cohesion fund and the common agricultural policy - which is why the commission must review its decision to treat the policy options as non-binding and ensure that its proposals are the result of the requirements of the aarhus convention for effective public participation.
the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, which aim to create a supplementary premium under certain conditions, will greatly enrich the application of the common agricultural policy and introduce greater realism and adaptation to the environment.
the large amount of forestry expenditure financed by the community budget for exports has led some countries, characterized by their mediterranean or arctic climate, to become importers of large quantities of european forestry.
however, despite some promising prospects opened up by the first eu-latin america-caribbean summit in rio de janeiro in 1999, which was aimed at a strategic partnership with an economic, social and ecological focus, the concrete results achieved so far are far from satisfactory.
- (pt) despite the efforts of the rapporteur and the majority of the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, there is no guarantee against non-discrimination towards countries and regions whose business structure does not have economic capacity, although there are scientific resources to participate in programmes aimed at the rapid transfer of knowledge at the level of technological innovation.
a year ago we adopted the report on the first reading on this community programme to encourage cooperation between member states in the fight against social exclusion as one of the significant elements of the strategy to combat poverty which the council spoke so much about at the lisbon summit in march 2000. but at the same time, the member states have made new commitments, with the definition of the objectives of combating poverty in nice and in stockholm, where they committed themselves to promoting sustainable development and quality jobs, stating that they wanted to contribute to reducing the risk of poverty and social exclusion.
between 1990 and 1999, the european union already reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 4%, and will be able to achieve the remaining reduction share (4%) by 2012, thanks to low-cost measures.
the promotion of nuclear energy is not among the measures proposed by the european commission (european climate change programme and emissions trading framework directive).
- (pt) despite the protest of the portuguese ngos and myself, the portuguese government insists on its maximalist approach to the alqueva project, preparing to fill up to 152 m. this communication and this report on sustainable water pricing show that filling up to 139 m, as i propose, would not only save more than 600 000 trees, but also very important habitats, and would be economically more sustainable.
i consider the following points to be particularly positive: 1) total prohibition, within one generation (2020), of the discharges and emissions of all hazardous substances into the environment.
the purpose of the year is to provide for a coordinated effort to change attitudes and to promote the removal of social and environmental barriers to equality and to assist in legal and policy developments.
what makes it worse, as mr andrews states in his opinion, is that they are not hindered by their disabilities, but by their environment and the attitudes towards them.
even some small positive advances in the field of intellectual property, after the pressures that countries such as brazil and south africa have developed to obtain generic drugs to combat aids and malaria, demonstrate that it is important to intensify the path of the fight against capitalist globalization in its various aspects, whether political, economic, social or environmental.
the trade union organisations in the european union have already condemned the opening of negotiations in the wto without at least ensuring real progress in defending compliance with the ilo conventions and minimum standards for the protection of workers' rights, since there can be no sustainable development without social and environmental development.
the liberalization of international trade favours rich countries and multinational companies, widening the gap between developed and less developed countries, as has been shown by un studies, and intensifying the exploitation of people and workers by multinational companies which dominate international trade and are only interested in maximum profit, even if it is at the expense of child labour, food security, the environment, family farming and multifunctional agriculture.
this is why it is important to mobilise for the fight for an alternative to sustainable development which gives priority to poverty reduction and social expansion, which promotes the revision of the cap, which is more coherent, more supportive and less isolated from the countries of the south.
the commitments made by the european union are far from meeting our main priorities, particularly in the environmental and social fields.