all of our current biodiversity is the result of over 10,000 years of struggle and toil.
it is the fruit of a collaboration between man as farmer, nature, the climate and technology.
if i had a choice, i would replace the current eu agricultural policy with a policy for cultural heritage and biodiversity.
only then can we achieve long-term sustainable solutions.
the situation we are in is extremely serious, particularly because the depletion of biodiversity is happening very rapidly.
yet it is an example of an unusually cynical trade, exporting toxic waste that causes serious illnesses, not least among children in the area, to a country that is unable to deal with it.
my question is: if the same thing were to happen today, that is, if attempts were made to export waste in this way, would the rules imply that such exports were totally prohibited?
we believe that the priorities enlargement, environment and employment are both important and right.
the most important environmental issue of the next six months will be the negotiations on the kyoto protocol to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we believe that such an agreement must be based on real reductions in emissions, not on the rich countries which already emit the most being given the right to buy their way out through emissions trading.
the eu legislation in this area is still wholly inadequate from an environmental point of view.
the third priority concerns long-term sustainable development.
it is about economic and social sustainability, but also environmental sustainability.
the eu is quite successful in environmental policy.
this is because those with the least ambition cannot block decisions, but it is also because parliament has a right to co-decide on environmental matters.
what is missing from the strategy is the linking of environmental policy with the areas mentioned above.
the fact that the swedish presidency has given high priority to the environment is extremely gratifying and absolutely necessary, and it is binding.
expectations are high given that council president persson has said that sustainable development on the eu agenda will lead to a green strategy for the 21st century.
this means giving the economy a green playing field, integrating the environment into all other policies and introducing the necessary controls.
it is therefore incomprehensible that the swedish government is acting against environmental taxes at eu level as minimum levels of carbon and energy taxes.
i listened with interest to the prime minister's comments on the environment.
most of today's environmental problems are directly linked to energy use, and the problem is that europe today lacks an energy policy.
the member states have not even been able to agree on a common carbon tax.
without a carbon tax, the eu cannot meet the requirements of the kyoto protocol.
the eu's strategy for sustainable development, which is to be discussed in gothenburg, will also be hampered if the eu does not take a united approach to energy issues.
the failure to exploit women's capacity in decision-making is an unacceptable waste.
when we have succeeded in implementing this reconciliation, we also have the opportunity to create a better environment in europe, and we all benefit as citizens.
i see the environment as a major reason why we must tackle railway issues.
this is very dangerous for employment in europe and for the countryside, but also for our environment and our cultural heritage.
i and the committee on the environment fully support the commission's positions.
the arguments put forward are a little different and i would like to mention here some of the arguments which i have put forward in the report and which have been accepted by the committee on the environment.
on the one hand, there is the environmental argument.
in the united states, where they are used, they have been found to spread to the environment outside of animal production.
in recent years, the commission has put forward a number of proposals to improve maritime safety in various ways, following a number of accidents affecting both people and the environment.
we also know that environmental issues, asylum and crossborder crime are important issues where citizens want the eu to be strong, powerful and active.
this is true of environmental issues as well as ethical considerations.
at the same time, it is important to state that when it comes to improving human health and ensuring the sustainable production of more food for a growing world population, we must not exclude any science.
however, one ingredient is missing here - we mention it in our report and hope that the gothenburg summit will take up the same aspect - namely that ecological aspects should also be linked to this process and to these issues.
let me highlight some of the key measures to give europe a boost: further liberalisation is needed in the energy markets, the postal and telecommunications sectors - an area where danielsson can show its very best side.
but wouldn't it have sounded even better if the eu had wanted to create the greenest, most sustainable, fairest and most equal economy?
those which create deep divisions and environmental damage.
or will you perhaps instead return to some kind of solidarity tradition and try to put the eu on a track that is more about environmental friendliness, sustainability and solidarity?
secondly, the bank has had, as i see it, very bad environmental work.
in the area of environmental impact assessments, it is clear that the world bank, for example, is better than the european investment bank at publishing analyses before decisions are taken.
there has been more talk of dialogue, openness, environmental considerations and change.
we hope that this will lead to a real reform of the bank's work - which we would therefore welcome - and to the full application of the aarhus convention on environmental transparency to the bank.
we also reject the proposal for the creation of a sustainable aid for the nuts and dried fruit sector through a new flat-rate aid per hectare to maintain the income of producers, as proposed in amendment no 22.
i am referring to greater liberalisation, a better business environment and better education and lifelong learning.
parliament stresses the environmental aspects of all development more than the commission proposal does.
the parliament's comment on this is important, namely that the focus should be broader and thus not just on roads but also include access to information and communication technologies and modern energy carriers.
the report rightly stresses the importance of reforming the common agricultural policy to achieve 'environmentally, economically and socially sustainable agriculture in the sense of agenda 21'.
the agricultural sector must be inspired by the idea of long-term and sustainable development, for example in relation to the environment and the economy.
it was a good proposal from the commission and it has improved since the environment committee went through it.
it is clear that the environmental problems of our time and of the future must be solved at all levels.
the right to access information on environmental matters is not only a right but also a matter of power.
in many environmental issues, the public interest in a good environment is being pitted against strong economic private interests.
that is why it is also a matter of democracy to have transparency in environmental matters in good time.
regarding the negotiations on transparency under article 255, it seems unfortunately that the result could be much worse than that set out in the aarhus convention on the environment, and such a result would in fact be completely unacceptable.
furthermore, as regards the future rules, it is important that other institutions, such as the european investment bank, are also fully covered by the aarhus convention, as their activities have a fairly large impact on the environment in various ways.
but i would also like to express my disappointment that members of this parliament, especially members of the committee on the environment, do not have the capacity to accept the democratic process which began three years ago and which is now to be completed, but are trying at the last minute to destroy this document.
we know that our use of fossil fuels is not a sustainable use of energy.
it is indeed possible to maintain a good level of energy service and at the same time work towards a better environment.
it is also important to point out that the directive sets a framework for the liberalisation of the energy market that we are witnessing today.
without such a framework, the energy market in europe is in total anarchy.
minimum environmental requirements are necessary to create common rules of the game.
today and tomorrow we have the opportunity not only to stop dangerous emissions but also to improve public health and lay the foundations for a successful enlargement of the union in the future.
i would like to begin by thanking mr myller, who has done an incredibly solid job, and the colleagues in the environment committee, who have helped to bring us a proposal that now looks really good.
once again we see the conflict between industry, employment and the environment emerge.
the responsibility and the long-term vision of how we can have a good living environment also in the future are suddenly gone.
i really hope that the commission will now show that it supports what parliament has expressed, particularly in the committee on the environment.
i hope that tomorrow we will have the courage to accept the proposals of the committee on the environment.
the acidification of forests, soil and waterways is the single biggest environmental problem in my country.
almost all acid rain comes from the combustion of fossil fuels used in energy production in other european countries.
the natural environment in large parts of the northern eu has a low buffering capacity.
without having access to the exact figures, i would venture to say that over the years sweden has invested more in reducing acidification in economic terms than some member states have invested in reducing acidifying emissions.
reducing emissions from combustion is also a major health issue in several eu countries.
the un has proved to be a poor organization for pursuing european environmental problems.
i cannot therefore support the proposal for eu taxes on emissions.
overall, good environmental and health conditions do not lead to unemployment.
in the long run, efforts to improve the environment and health are a good investment.
the situation in russia today would be much better if it did not have to inherit the environmental disaster and the ill health that the collapsed communist system left behind.
finally, i would like to thank rapporteur myller for her efforts to achieve results in this important environmental field.
the commission's proposal for an action plan to increase energy efficiency is welcomed.
the examination of the action plan has made it very clear how energy saving is neglected as a policy area and in society in general.
many people are probably aware that we need to change the focus of energy policy, that we need to reduce our heavy dependence on fossil fuels.
some are proposing renewable energy.
very few would say that the transition would be achieved, not least through more efficient use of energy.
furthermore, there is a lack of sufficient economic incentives to facilitate investment in more efficient energy use.
one big problem is that the energy savings are invisible.
if we invest the same amount of money in energy conservation, it's perceived as much more diffuse.
the potential for energy saving and household use is very large within the eu.
at least 30 percent of today's energy use could be saved by rational behavior.
if the environmental costs of energy production and consumption were also included in prices, the potential would be even greater.
it is against this background that the report calls for the internalization of environmental costs and the tackling of the problem through various types of taxes, not least a tonne-kilometre tax on heavy trucks and a tax on bunker oils.
similarly, it is important to promote fiscal incentives for energy-efficient vehicles and buildings, or equipment that contributes to better housekeeping.
there is much to be done in this area to increase incentives for energy conservation.
the report calls for a series of new directives to stimulate energy efficiency in various areas.
another important proposal is to link intelligent energy use to the so-called lisbon process.
such a programme is significantly delayed if environmental aspects are not covered.
these could be subject to a requirement whereby energy efficiency increases annually within the union by, for example, 2,5%.
even if environmental aspects were not taken into account, there is a strong case for putting energy efficiency on the agenda in the context of the lisbon process.
a more efficient use of energy and natural resources would make an excellent contribution to the competitiveness and productivity of the union.
that is why i have drawn up, together with three members, mcnally, turmes and van der laan, an initiative, 'energy intelligent europe', which has already received the support of many representatives from different political groups and member states.
the aim is to stimulate the debate on energy efficiency in various ways and to propose initiatives that should be taken by the eu and the member states to make our use of energy more intelligent.
- (sv) the council's compromise proposal is likely to result in an increase in emissions for the four forms of air pollution covered by the directive.
so far, no analysis has been made of the environmental consequences of the council's proposal, nor has there been any assessment of the cost or economic benefit.
however, it is clear that this compromise will not reduce emissions sufficiently to meet the partial environmental target for 2010. the text of the so-called gothenburg protocol to the convention on transboundary air pollution was signed in december 1999, six months after the commission presented its proposal on national emission ceilings.
the levels of pollutants and critical levels of acidifying air pollution will therefore continue to be exceeded in large areas of the union, and a significant proportion of the eu population will remain exposed to pollution levels below who air quality guidelines.
it is important to address issues such as full employment, employment issues in general, good work including the working environment, skills development, employee influence the crucial importance of lifelong learning and demographic developments which should lead to older people also being able to develop and remain in their jobs.
finally, the stockholm and gothenburg meetings should be linked and environmental issues should be integrated in this process with economic, employment and other policies in the future.
secondly, i wonder whether, given the common direction of developments in both countries, it is sustainable and reasonable in the long term to treat ukraine and belarus as differently as we do today.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled an opinion.
these include ethical issues in the medical field, environmental and consumer issues in the cultivation of genetically modified crops, and global justice issues in the area of patent law and the dominance of large multinational companies in the industry.
the committee on the environment's opinion points to a few key areas.
however, we must not let these fears of the risks of the new technology overshadow its potential opportunities for man and the environment.
properly used, biotechnology can contribute to ecological, economic and social growth.
(sv) we in the swedish social democrats believe that nuclear energy is not an ecologically sustainable source of energy.
- (sv) we, the swedish christian democrats, would like to point out that we voted against the second and third parts in the split vote on paragraph 36. it states - wrongly - that 'europe now has a clear framework for the release of gmos, a framework which ensures a high degree of consumer and environmental protection' and - equally wrongly - 'so that the continuation of the de facto moratorium is no longer justified'.
with a marketing ban and a ban on animal testing and the other measures that the environment committee has advocated, i think we are making good progress, which i am glad of.
however, pvc also has other characteristics, namely that it creates an unusually hazardous waste.
this creates very serious environmental problems when it comes to the waste stage.
it's the only way to reduce the amount of waste.
it's the environment that's broken, and it can be changed.
this is possible because it is about changing the environment.
it was a failure that stockholm could not agree on a timetable for deregulating the energy markets.
finally, i would like to make a connection between the gothenburg summit and the ecological dimension, which is the next step.
i welcome the addition to the stockholm agenda of the incorporation of sustainable development and environmentally-friendly growth into the lisbon strategy.
both the council decisions and the commission's discussion papers on sustainable development presented after the stockholm summit place too much emphasis on economic policy and competitive growth.
the structural indicators of the ecofin council were fully adopted, but not a single environmental indicator was included, not even the commission's proposal for energy efficiency indicators, nor any indicator for greenhouse gas emissions.
even if the worst-case scenarios of our ongoing climate change are not painted, the people of the poorest countries are the ones who are affected the most.
it is therefore highly remarkable that the country that accounts for more than a quarter of the world's total carbon dioxide emissions is not taking part in the reduction.
time and again, most recently at last year's climate conference in the hague, the united states has shown its unwillingness to negotiate the american way of life.
for more than a decade, negotiations have been under way on measures to protect the climate.
this puts the whole system of international environmental negotiations at risk.
at the same time, we know that the united states consumes more than twice as much energy per unit of energy produced as the eu average.
the potential for energy savings in the united states is enormous.
the us action places a particularly heavy responsibility on us europeans to take the lead in climate action, because the work must continue, with or without the us.
the positive contribution of the united states is absolutely essential in the long term if we are to stabilise the climate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
chernobyl is a constant reminder that we cannot continue to ignore the dangers of nuclear power and it is the clearest warning yet of the threat nuclear energy poses to our very existence.
in belarus, 18 percent of the total population lives in a highly polluted environment.
i therefore agree with the many speakers, led by the rapporteur, mr giorgos katiforis, who have highlighted the need for public investment in education, research, environmental improvements and the like.
in the gue/ngl group, for example, we are particularly pleased with the requirements for lower tar content, nicotine and carbon monoxide limits, clearer warning texts and the requirement for companies to account for additives.
- (sv) mr president, with the two proposals we are now considering, an important step has been taken in reducing the amount of waste from electronic equipment.
only when these costs have been integrated into the price are the actual environmental costs reflected in the price.
an individual system for new waste favours producers who use the best materials and make products with a simple construction so that they are easily recyclable.
the environmental benefits of products are a product development incentive.
as regards the second proposal for a directive on the restriction of the use of dangerous substances in electronic equipment, we think that the environment committee could have gone further with its amendments, particularly as regards the ban on fire retardants.
the commission has recently turned a blind eye to the swedish authorities' insistence on strict environmental standards in the area of dangerous substances when purchasing 400 000 computers.
we find it totally unacceptable that the commission and the eu procurement rules prevent member states from imposing stricter environmental requirements on product development in this area.
the most important is, however, the establishment of producer responsibility, which in my view means the greatest environmental gain.
they are given the opportunity to develop their ecological ideas and products in an environmentally friendly way, which is comparable with other companies.
the directive on dangerous substances is based on article 95 and the directive on waste electrical and electronic products on article 175. i can't understand that.
i would like to see this issue brought into line with the theme of this evening, namely sustainable development.
here again, the internal market is determining how far we want to go in the field of the environment, and countries that want to go further are being punished.
(sv) we swedish members of the moderate group believe that this directive contributes to the protection of the environment.
we interpret it as follows: the financing referred to in point 2 concerns very generally the conversion of electrical and electronic equipment into waste.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community.
- (sv) madam president, as rapporteur of a report on sustainable development, i have long awaited this day.
how should we approach a strategy for sustainable development?
mr prodi gave a valuable signal to the outside world by saying that sustainable development must be seen on a world level.
the eu's activities in a whole range of areas - trade policy, fisheries policy, energy policy and so on - naturally have repercussions on the situation in other countries.
i shall concentrate on one area, namely environmental issues.
there is a growing consensus among experts on the problems of global warming and its consequences.
in addition to the visit by mr bush, sustainable development is also the main theme of the gothenburg summit.
we would have liked to see the eu democratized, the power of officials and the commission reduced, the power of national parliaments increased, the council of ministers more open and transparent, the dominance of the free market over environmental and social considerations changed, and the dogmatic monetarism which is the basis of monetary union reconsidered.
five minutes to debate sustainable development in a 25-year perspective is not much, and it's an art to be able to stick to that time margin exactly in the second.
the question is what do we mean by "sustainability strategy"?
we have a mission since the decision was made in rio almost 10 years ago that every nation should maintain a sustainability strategy.
what is sustainability?
what are we really talking about when we talk about sustainability?
we discuss what kind of development, what kind of life we want for future generations, in other words how their lives are to be managed in terms of social issues, ecological development and the economy.
the commission may have had plenty of time to do so, but parliament should be given a real opportunity to discuss these issues - not just from an environmental point of view.
otherwise we will confine the question to an environmental issue, which it is not.
as regards the policy areas which it would be desirable to deal with in such a document, particularly in view of the direction that the question is to take in gothenburg, i think we must start from the ecological perspective.
however, without a well-functioning planet in ecological terms, it will be very difficult to discuss economic and social issues.
if we are to develop a sustainability strategy for the european union, we must take account of the problems within the union, but it is absolutely impossible to isolate the union from the rest of the world.
what we do in the union affects our environment.
without the local perspective, there is no sustainability strategy.
sustainable development involves many factors.
agriculture is still europe's modernising force, insofar as it is agriculture and forestry that represent our cultural heritage, our recreation and our biodiversity.
then you have to ask yourself: how sustainable is the european union's own system of agricultural subsidies?
is it not time to use some of that money for sustainable development, for rural development, for the conservation of biodiversity, for the removal of chemicals, for food that we can eat with joy and security?
i would like to say a few words about the commission's proposal on sustainable development.
it is clear that it could have gone much further in many areas, but i must say that it was sharper than expected and that it contains several proposals which, if implemented, will really make a difference to current environmental policy.
i would like to highlight in particular the demands to restrict road transport, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to eliminate harmful subsidies, to change the procurement rules in an environmentally friendly way and to adapt agricultural policy.
however, in one area the proposal is inadequate, namely in terms of international cooperation and relations with the world trade organisation and environmental rules.
it is of the utmost importance that this issue of sustainable development now stands high on the political agenda.
sustainable development is relevant to all policy areas.
it is known that it concerns transport policy, agricultural policy and energy policy, but it also concerns social policy.
social policy is also part of sustainable development.
sustainable development is also about a variety of approaches.
the new thing is that we are going to integrate the ecological aspects into the so-called lisbon process.
the next council meeting in barcelona in the spring will not only deal with economic, social, lifelong learning, investment and industrial policy issues, but will also be a 'sustainability council' by integrating ecological aspects into policy.
both demonstrate the need to integrate environmental, social and economic policies if we are to achieve sustainable development.
as environment minister kjell larsson says, political courage is now needed in all institutions and in all camps.
the commission's document on integrating environmental policy into economic policy states that there is no contradiction between economic growth and environmental protection.
but how is it that increased production and consumption have eaten up all the environmental efforts that we have actually made and are making?
economic development must therefore be adapted to ecological requirements, otherwise there will be no sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
the sixth environmental action programme is perhaps the most important policy document we have to take up during this mandate, as it will guide environmental legislation and policy in the eu for a long time to come.
it is also a key pillar of the sustainable development strategy.
i would like to thank margot wallström, however, for the fact that we do have a sixth environmental action programme.
we may have forgotten that the commission did not want a sixth environmental action programme in the first place.
it was only at the hearing in the committee on the environment, in connection with wallström's candidacy for the post of commissioner, that the promise of a sixth action programme was given.
i also think it is good that the wording on public procurement, biodiversity, the precautionary principle and the substitution principle has been included in the chemical strategy.
it has been very exciting to be part of the journey leading up to the decision on strategic environmental impact assessments that we are about to make.
the idea behind environmental impact assessments for plans and programmes is old.
however, the commission changed its mind and decided to propose a directive covering only environmental impact assessments of projects.
the next step was taken in 1991 when the commission presented a proposal for a directive on environmental impact assessments also for policies, plans and programmes.
however, this proposal was born amid a lively debate on the balance of power within the then european community, and it was met with such resistance that it was withdrawn in 1992. the commission did not give up and stated in the fifth environmental action programme that an impact assessment of policies, plans and programmes is necessary to achieve sustainable development.
at the same time, member states were invited to extend the environmental impact assessment directive to include plans and programmes.
the purpose of the directive is to ensure that an environmental impact assessment is carried out for certain plans and programmes and that the results of those environmental impact assessments are taken into account during the preparation and approval of plans and programmes which may have an impact on the environment.
the introduction of the environmental assessment early in the planning process, so that there is room for adjustment, modification or adoption of alternative plans, is of course an excellent tool for all decision-makers.
the directive should of course also be seen as a complement to the environmental impact assessments of projects, but as i said, these come much later in the decision-making process.
parliament has passed a requirement for monitoring environmental impact which was not included in the council's common position.
it is not a question of creating new processes, but of adding the ecological dimension to the lisbon process.
i know that there have been some reflections and doubts on this point, but it is a question of adding the ecological dimension to a process which already exists.
i would also like to stress the unanimity of the committee on the environment.
the committee on the environment, like myself, has chosen to support the commission's approach and has tried to improve and, above all, to tighten up the practical regulatory framework.
i have chosen to support the amendments on the control of household waste as regards the risks of foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever tabled by the green group, namely amendments nos 102 and 103. it is good if we have clear rules, but perhaps the big question in this context is still not really resolved by these amendments.
it is the crash in cannibalism and household waste.
the report by mr davies, as i see it, is basically about the credibility of the eu's environmental policy and whether we should really try to achieve the objectives that the union has created.
ground-level ozone is a serious air pollutant that poses significant problems for public health and the environment.
the targets we set for reducing pollution must be binding, otherwise we risk making decisions a blow in the wind.
this type of air pollution has significant effects on public health.
there must be coherence between eu environmental policies in different areas.
if this policy is to be coherent, binding rules on ozone emissions are also needed.
i would also like to mention sustainable development and link it to social issues - much of the debate has been on sustainable development and ecological issues.
all of this is necessary for sustainable development.
the ecological aspects must therefore permeate all areas.
they must have implications for transport policy, they must have implications for energy policy, and they must have implications for agricultural policy as we design the long-term sustainable society.
the ecological aspects must also affect us globally.
internally, we must do this by the methods we have used so far, but also by complementing the lisbon process, by making the ecological aspects part of the process we are already pursuing in the social and economic fields.
we must also raise the issue of trade agreements within the wto by incorporating ecological and social aspects into the design of global trade.
the main theme of gothenburg will be sustainable development, and the kyoto protocol will be discussed in this context.
within the european union, we subsidise the very most carbon-intensive energy systems.
the second major environmental problem in europe is transport.
the third and perhaps one of our greatest environmental problems is the common agricultural policy.
some 5 billion of this amount goes to conserving cultural heritage and biodiversity, the rest is very counterproductive from an environmental point of view, so let us "sweep our own doorstep" as we go along.
thirty years after the stockholm un environment summit and ten years after the rio summit, the heads of state or government have a historic opportunity, a commitment and an obligation to adopt a credible strategy for sustainable development for the eu.
but the strategy must also be the basis for wider global environmental responsibility and commitments ahead of rio+10 in south africa.
to achieve a real breakthrough towards sustainable development, much, much more is needed.
major changes are needed in economic policy, transport and energy policy, chemicals policy, agriculture and fisheries policy.
it would be another setback if the summit did not lead to a credible outcome for sustainable development.
i would also like to say a few words about the sustainable development strategy to be discussed in gothenburg.
the commission's proposals were surprisingly concrete and good, not least in view of their weak proposals for environmental action programmes earlier this year.
the proposal has many clear objectives, such as continued reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, measures to conserve biodiversity, demands to stop traffic growth and to eliminate harmful subsidies such as tobacco cultivation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
european integration provides an opportunity to address crossborder issues such as the environment, trade, crossborder mobility, human rights and conflict management.
however, i do not know how much gunpowder was poured on sustainable development.
i do not know whether this is due to the enormous reluctance of the eu's heads of state or government to understand what sustainable development really means.
how can we now anchor a plan and a political process for the rio+10 conference in south africa, when we have not presented the concrete commitments on what will happen to the climate objectives after 2010, how to stop overfishing, how to change the devastating agricultural policy we have today?
the swedish presidency gave priority to enlargement, employment and the environment.
the presidency has had some bad luck in the environment.
the work on the most important environmental problem, the climate issue, has been effectively sabotaged by the new president of the united states.
the gothenburg summit was able to adopt a good strategy for sustainable development, but when it came to the point, most of the radical environmental requirements had been removed from the text.
there are two perspectives on sustainable development.
clear, tangible improvements have been made and, most importantly, environmental issues are being brought into the lisbon process.
what is the problem with environmental issues today?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
one area where more should be done is, of course, the union's strategy for sustainable development.
they are, of course, a very important part of sustainability work.
we cannot achieve sustainable development without taking a global approach from the outset.
this means that the european union is taking a very important step towards a different energy system, one that takes climate issues seriously and the need to diversify the energy system and ensure that an increasing proportion of our energy comes from energy sources that do not adversely affect nature or the climate.
the transition to renewable energy sources is an important step.
at the same time, great efforts are needed to make our energy use more efficient.
we have set a target in the directive that at least 22% of electricity should come from renewable energy sources.
such a development naturally requires that energy policy in general develop in the right direction.
it requires the elimination of subsidies for fossil fuels, especially coal, the internalisation of external costs for different energy sources in prices and a real boost to research.
- (sv) the swedish christian democrats welcome the directive on the production of electricity from renewable energy sources.
we accept that electricity produced by burning the biodegradable fraction of household waste should be included in the national indicative targets.
we would like, however, that the incineration of unsorted household waste should not be included as a source of electricity produced from renewable energy sources.
that is why we do not accept that the incineration of unsorted household waste is supported.
we believe that the importance of adopting the directive as soon as possible, particularly in view of the pressing role that the eu has and must continue to play in the future climate change discussions, is nevertheless sufficient motivation to support the compromise that has been negotiated with the council in this area.
there is a great deal of agreement here about our position on climate issues, which i think is very important.
we are in fact risking a kind of collapse in the climate negotiations, a collapse that would risk taking us back several years in development.
we know that these requirements alone are insufficient to meet the challenges of climate change.
when the decision was taken in gothenburg on a strategy for sustainable development, several of the most important points had been removed.
in 1998, a mine collapse in spain had very serious ecological consequences.
another similar accident occurred in romania in 2000. both of these accidents had international environmental consequences.
at the same time, we have very large quantities of old mining waste stored in various places, which release heavy metals and other toxins into the environment.
the content of this waste and the extent of the problem are not fully understood.
so mine waste is one of our major environmental problems.
safety in mining is also a major environmental problem.
we stress that the responsibility for accidents should be borne exclusively by the company, including the environmental consequences, and that the mining industry should be included in the forthcoming liability directive.
there are major shortcomings in the research on the management of mining waste, and we want to develop the techniques currently available in different countries.
the inventory involves going through old mining waste and seeing where it causes serious environmental problems.
the main element of the commission's proposal is the proposal for a new framework directive on the management of mining waste.
i, as rapporteur, and the committee on the environment, consider that to be the right approach.
a specific directive is needed, as neither the waste directive nor the landfill directive is particularly suited to the management of mining waste.
we also stress that this directive must deal with both old mining waste and existing production in progress.
it is an extremely dangerous method which risks seriously damaging the surrounding environment if the dam breaks, as was the case in romania.
i would also like to remind the commission that the gothenburg summit committed itself to contributing to sustainable development on a global scale, in particular by seeking to achieve the 0.7% of gnp target proposed by the un for development aid.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the as well as the protection of the environment, which is a key objective of the european union, we must also ensure that the european union increases the freedom and the opportunity for citizens to enjoy freedom of movement, to improve their well-being, to develop diversity and to tackle environmental and crime-related problems.
then we could solve problems together and create a good environment for european citizens, and that would be the right time.
the commission has also helped germany to develop a more competitive environment, which is good for business.
on the day when poland, together with the other member states of the baltic sea region, becomes a member state of the eu, we can jointly set requirements for the environmental treatment of both marine safety and the baltic sea region.
the eu is committed to joining the global community in the fight against climate change, and all countries must participate in the action, especially the united states, which is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases in the world.
we need to change our transport systems and our emissions to reduce the impact of climate change.
we welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on the need to include both the environmental and the social consequences of the regulations, but if we want enlargement to be fair, a minor adjustment in these two fundamental areas is far from sufficient.
i am very pleased that the rapporteur, mr ries, and the environment committee have sharpened the commission's proposal on brominated flame retardants.
it is in swedish environmental research that it has been established that even dekabde is bioaccumulative.
waiting until 2006 to ban would mean the release of tons of high-risk chemicals into the environment, which would clearly be contrary to the precautionary principle.
we are currently having a great debate on health and safety, which means that it is not only the physical but also the psychosocial working environment that matters, and that will become increasingly important in the future changing world of work.
it is likely that the framework directive on the working environment also covers aspects of the psychosocial working environment, but we would like clarification on this point.
this decision means, to put it dramatically, that my region is being given life back and that the forestry, fisheries and biodiversity sectors are being given the opportunity to repair the damage done over decades and perhaps even a whole century.
european integration gives us the opportunity to solve cross-border problems, for example in the environment, trade, free movement between countries, human rights and conflict resolution.
changes in the european landscape environment and changes in nature are examples.
local and national authorities are better able to take environmental factors into account in the case of fixed noise sources.
it should not cover everything, but only those matters which cannot be better managed at national, local or individual level, such as the internal market, the single currency, external and internal security, borders, customs and certain environmental issues.
i am speaking today because i believe that we need technological systems that bring environmental benefits.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues harbour and beysen, who in the committee responsible have worked in a meritorious way on and taken account of the views we expressed from the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on this matter.
a policy which must also be complemented by measures to accelerate the process of liberalisation in sectors such as postal services, electricity, energy - something that cannot be said often enough.
ladies and gentlemen, we have already dealt with a very excellent report by mr korhola a few months ago on public access to environmental information.
this time it is about public participation in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment.
in this area, a whole range of measures are needed in the field of working environment, skills development, etc.
this is of course the case with the working environment, not least the new problems of stress, exclusion, burnout and the like, but it is also the case with lifelong learning.
the open method of coordination exists alongside legislation in the field of labour law and the working environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled an opinion.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection warmly supports the council's decision to grant a community guarantee to the european investment bank to cover losses in connection with the lending of funds to environmental projects in the russian part of the baltic sea basin.
we are deeply concerned about the environmental situation in this area, which is in the immediate vicinity of the european union.
we believe that environmental investments in this area are urgent and in some cases even urgent.
we note that the european investment bank has already started negotiations on participation in projects for the treatment of waste water from st petersburg and kaliningrad.
it is also worth pointing out that environmental investment in this area can be more effective than many investments within the community, and that greater positive impacts on the health and environment of citizens of the european union can be achieved.
we in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection can therefore wholeheartedly support the proposal that has been put forward.
in some parts of our neighbourhood, environmental problems are indeed alarming, not least in the waters of the baltic sea.
i myself live in a municipality on the baltic sea, norrköping, where one of the biggest problems in terms of water quality is that we still get so much polluted emissions from the candidate countries to the union and from russia.
we know, for example, that there are still discharges of contaminated waste water from 3-4 million people in the st petersburg region, and the situation around kaliningrad is about the same.
to develop this region and, not least in terms of the environment, to tackle the major problems, we have created the 'northern dimension', which covers a very large area from iceland in the west to russia in the east.
it is urgent, and i am therefore pleased that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also expressed its wishes.
despite the outcry from india and malaysia, the least developed countries, the g77 and china, and a host of environmental and solidarity movements, the eu and the us are going to try to push through the wto's free trade doctrine, not just for traditional trade, but for virtually all economic life.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
account can be taken of the environment and of social considerations, safety regulations can be established and a good relationship can be enjoyed with the social partners.
among the criticisms made is the fact that there has been a lack of information about the majority of the 100 000 existing chemicals, that the work has proceeded far too slowly and that the present policy has, in practice, failed to protect human health and the environment.
the commission's survey of the legislation on existing substances shows that human beings and the environment are potentially exposed to a large number of chemical substances whose dangerous characteristics are not known.
the commission's white paper, produced by the environment and enterprise directorates-general, is trying to create a high degree of health and environmental protection, while maintaining the competitiveness of the european chemicals industry.
i share the view of the majority of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy that the strategy should focus on the protection of the environment and human health and that the starting point for the commission's white paper should be the debate in the council and the growing unease about the fact that the current chemicals policy cannot offer adequate protection of the environment and human health.
naturally, the economic and social aspects must be accorded a fair degree of importance as parts of a strategy for sustainable development.
if a majority of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy voted for a proposal that goes further than the commission's and shows how an effective, open and consumer-friendly control of chemicals should look in the future, that is completely in line with, and receives strong political support from, the european council summit in june when the conclusions drawn by the 15 member states were significantly stricter and more far-reaching than the commission's proposal.
there is therefore an express political will to adopt the policy for a new chemicals strategy proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, above all when it comes to the scope of the reach system.
even among industrial companies there is a desire to go further, for a competitive industry cannot be achieved through the unacceptable situation we have at present but only by producing safer chemicals and chemicals that protect human health and the environment.
mrs schörling's report from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, which we are now discussing, provides an excellent point of departure for a new chemicals policy.
the strength of the report is that it really puts the environment and public health first, and that must be our main task.
we wish to emphasize the demand that it should be those departments of the commission with responsibility for environmental protection that should approve new chemicals.
economic growth and access to jobs can never be invoked to prevent necessary requirements concerning the use of chemicals, work on achieving sustainable development and a high level of protection of public health and of employees.
a society characterised by sustainable development also provides lasting employment, a sustainable living environment and people able to have faith in the future.
i nonetheless think and i say this following 30 years experience of environmental issues and environmental debate that, as usual, we have an incredible talent for running after problems and battening upon them.
to discuss packaging solely from the perspective of waste, as we are doing now and have always done, is completely wrong.
i address the commissioner with responsibility for environmental issues directly and appeal to her to allow us to discuss the whole chain.
we have to discuss logistics, transport and the packaging that eventually becomes waste.
-{sv) given the risks that chemicals pose to human health and the environment, the swedish christian democrats believe it is obvious that chemicals which have not been subjected to certain tests should also not be allowed to be marketed, according to the principle 'no data, no marketing'.
now, anyone who is interested - consumer organisations, environmental organisations, the media - will be informed immediately.
in that case, we believe it is extremely important to assert the right to stricter regulations for health and environmental reasons.
these scandals are closely linked to a highly industrialized farming system and an agricultural policy in which large-scale farming and yields have become more important than the environment, animal welfare and food security.
if the eu is to tackle the root causes of the problems in this area, it will first need to reorganise the cap to put sustainability, the environment and animal welfare first.
the truth is that environmental and solidarity organisations are criticising the eu's actions in doha and calling the final agreement a defeat for the poor people of the world.
this applies in particular to environmental pollution which we know is harmful to public health, such as the use of toxic and unhealthy chemicals in consumer products and also the contamination of foodstuffs.
the european union must concentrate on its core tasks - working for peace and democracy, human rights, free trade and the improvement of the environment.
we in the swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report on the directive on the reduction of emissions from two- and three-wheel vehicles.
we believe this report is helping the environment.
if we set a standard now, there is a risk that emissions from two- and three-wheelers in the future will be higher than necessary.
we have a concrete way of developing the good practices towards safer and better shipping and a better marine environment.
this week we have awarded the annual sakharov prize to three very worthy recipients who are fighting for peace and tolerance in an environment that is anything but peaceful and tolerant.