the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airports are not subject to the same environmental impact as the airports.
here we have the opportunity to reduce the climate damage caused by air traffic and also to reduce the noise pollution for the extremely stressed neighbours.
i want to ask you personally: do you have a plan for how you will personally achieve this 30% reduction in your personal environment?
i would like to know what concrete measures have been taken, what concrete measures are planned for the coming years and what role will renewable energies play in this?
the focus on road transport will exacerbate existing problems such as congestion, noise, pollution and particulate matter, particularly on major routes and in urban areas.
if the european union is serious about the health of its citizens and the protection of the environment, it is important to replace very quickly the main sources of pollution emissions, such as commercial vehicles with aging diesel engines, to make rolling country roads economically attractive and to ensure the implementation of the alpine convention.
a fire would have unforeseeable consequences, not only in terms of permanent damage to health, but also in terms of pollution of the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
i expect croatia to make greater efforts and, as regards the ecological fishing zone, i expect it to keep its promise not to extend and apply this zone to croatia and italy.
thirdly, please use the climate targets and the strengthening of european energy independence to give new impetus to the implementation of the lisbon strategy for growth, jobs and social cohesion.
the second point is that energy efficiency in production and consumption should be the focus of our debates.
my question is: how will the increase in food and energy prices affect the wto negotiations?
no, the whole of the european union and this region of the black sea and the south caucasus must work together in the spirit of partnership - as others have already mentioned - to solve the common problems that exist: the political problems, for example in terms of stability, also in terms of migration, and of course also the economic problems, i am thinking only of energy transit.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is absolutely crucial to have a traceable positive ecological footprint for biofuels.
as far as co2 and greenhouse gas emissions are concerned, many people will say - and i agree with them - minus 20% is too low to guarantee the targets we want to achieve on climate change.
we want to develop clean technologies in europe and also export them so that we can keep this environment clean together.
we must, however, make a strong case for taking both the ecological and the economic aspects into account.
the environmental objectives must guide us, but we must also take account of the economic issues in order to ensure a clean industry and a clean economy in europe.
i have to say, madam president, unless energy-hungry emerging economies and energy-wasting developed countries take environmental considerations more seriously, all efforts at eu level will not even be able to repair the damage they have caused.
i think that the success of the so-called 'trade in allowances' is also questionable, since its hidden development aid does not reduce overall emissions but at best redistributes them.
to date, austria alone has spent €280 million on allowances, while renewable energy is only supported by €20 million per year.
so i think that rather than postponing energy policy considerations as a pretext for turkey's eu accession, it would be more sensible to rethink eu-russia relations in this regard.
last but not least, the eu must finally use sophisticated, environmentally friendly power and energy technologies, put a stop to water waste, cut transport subsidies across europe and increase pressure on the biggest climate offenders.
i would like to join the speakers who stress the importance of renewable energy and i am glad that the commission does not consider nuclear energy as renewable energy, which is not at all a matter for discussion.
i would also like to stress the importance of energy efficiency and of measures to be taken in this area, because all the studies show that energy efficiency is the most economical way of reducing co2 emissions.
as a development politician, i would also like to say that i am looking forward to the commission's proposals on how to bring more projects under the clean development mechanism to the poorest countries on the planet, because we know that the poorest countries are suffering the most from the effects of climate change.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to mention once again transport as one of the main causes of the climate problem and to put it at the centre of our action.
the european union has not yet made a name for itself in reducing emissions from transport.
we have the opportunity, for example, to make the external costs of the euro-vignette really accountable and thus to shift more transport volumes from road to rail, where we are much better off in terms of emissions.
if we don't address the issue of transport, we will have no chance of ever reaching the climate goals.
in practical terms, this would simply mean reducing the co2 emissions of the policy operation.
the objective of keeping global warming at a maximum of 2°c above pre-industrial levels is therefore imperative.
agriculture is affected by climate change in three ways.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the environment.
third, agriculture can also see and take advantage of climate change.
as a producer of renewable raw materials and especially in the second and third generations as a producer of substitutes for petrochemical products or also through new possibilities in the cultivation of the soil, we have an opportunity here.
the production of renewable raw materials, however, requires the development and observance of sustainability criteria.
the commissioner, climate change is a global problem affecting society as a whole and not just one sector.
the rainforests play a crucial role in the world's climate.
a halt to deforestation and forest fires would therefore be a crucial contribution to the fight against global warming.
certification and labelling of sustainable biofuel production are therefore essential for the protection of the rainforest and the global climate.
i am therefore against the commission's proposal in the climate and energy package to make 10% biofuels compulsory by 2020, because this does nothing for climate protection and is far from a sustainable policy.
− energy saving measures and increased energy efficiency are desirable for environmental and economic reasons.
i therefore voted for the hall report, but i hope that we will have more success here than in our ambition to reduce energy consumption by 2020 or to increase the share of renewable energy - both lofty objectives which, as things stand, we are unlikely to be able to achieve.
because the customs procedure has been streamlined, because the basis has been laid for simpler, faster, common customs procedures at the external border, because the radical changes in the environment in which international trade takes place, e.g.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety rejected the commission's proposal for a decision because we still do not know exactly why the legal form of a decision was chosen and why there is no binding legal regulation on such an important subject.
agriculture takes its responsibility to the citizens very seriously, as also stated in the treaties of rome: research, development, sustainability, environmental protection and employment in all regions of europe must be our common goal.
together, for example, with energy issues and with the additional energy competence that the treaty on the reform of the european union gives, we could finally pursue an effective energy foreign policy that puts us in a better starting position vis-à-vis russia and other major energy powers.
together with the environmental expertise we have, we can also ensure that our mission trading and the other environmental goals we want to achieve do not result in our economy, our workers being harmed, but that the environment is seen as better globally.
the european institute of innovation and technology is a key part of getting more for our economy, more for our science and more for sustainable jobs in europe.
fourthly, quality childcare and a child-friendly environment, regardless of the income of the child's parents.
this will focus on new priorities or objectives: environmental protection, competitiveness and the creation of more and better jobs.
the aim is to improve the attractiveness of regions for investors and residents through sustainable regional development.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and i know that commissioner barrot is also a champion of a sustainable transport policy.
we need it, and the environment, but also traffic will thank him.
but i believe, mr president of the commission, that our common objective - as i listen to your speeches and read your interviews - is that in 2009 we will continue to build up a social and ecological europe in a globalised world.
we are in favour of quality competition within europe, which europe must of course conduct in a manner which takes account of environmental concerns.
we are committed, as they are, to the sustainable development of this continent, but for us, sustainability also includes the industrial centre of europe, an industrial centre which must adapt, which must adopt ecological objectives, where there must be constraints and incentives.
we must work together to ensure that industry and the economy continue to play a major role in the future in terms of production on this continent - in the interests of jobs - because the environmental objectives are fully compatible with the industrial location of europe.
we can only do this if we get the other partners - the us, china and india - to adopt similar environmental objectives.
we do not expect the commission to interfere in the political debates of this election year, but we do expect the commission to have a clear vision of how this europe should work in the future, as an ecological and social europe.
we have an election year and we have a year in which europe has also made a very strong international commitment to climate protection.
if we remain so hesitant about concrete measures, such as the emission levels for cars, then europe's credibility is at stake, and we cannot afford to do that in the long term in the international debates with our partners on climate change.
this is a negative example of the fact that the big lobbies have been duped, as was the case with the introduction of the emissions trading system in aviation, where too little has been done and too little has been done, so that the necessary measures to reduce the climate damage caused by aviation will not be implemented in a sufficiently efficient manner.
if we talk about new sources of energy on the one hand, but on the other hand the lion's share of research funds is still allocated to nuclear energy, to the nuclear industry, then this contradiction cannot be resolved, and we cannot have a viable solution because there are no opportunities to invest in a truly targeted way.
i am simply referring to the energy action plan.
i think, for example, that it is important in the energy sector alone that we make more research efforts to develop new energy technologies.
the transport sector must assume its overall responsibility, particularly when it comes to environmental objectives, but also when it comes to achieving the lisbon target.
- it may be useful to look at new technologies at community level or with financial support to reduce co2 emissions from steel production.
- i am in favour of harmonising transport, environment and energy policies within the european union, because only a concerted effort in these three sectors can lead to a lasting improvement in each.
the constantly increasing volume of traffic and the resulting environmental impact make it necessary to promote intensive cooperation at european level in the field of new technologies and alternative fuels in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve the quality of life in areas with heavy traffic.
in this sense, and given that cars themselves account for only about 10% of particulate matter emissions, the eu is only going to take on more responsibilities and set up pointless monitoring stations.
− the albertini report notes that better internalisation of external costs can help avoid market disruption and the increase in emissions.
this is a false signal, as road transport is the main source of transport emissions.
particular attention must be paid to the economic, social and environmental consequences of any increase or abolition of quotas, particularly in mountain areas.
the first priority is still food production, the second priority is animal feed production and the third priority is energy supply.
as regards the environmental impact of bioenergy, austrian agriculture, for example, has reduced co2 emissions by 14% since 1990, thus effectively meeting the kyoto target.
i would like to say that we need not only a soft landing and a gentle transition by 2015, but also sustainable solutions after 2015. for mountain and less-favoured areas and peripheral areas, it is necessary to ensure that after 2015 farming with raw fodder-consuming livestock units can continue.
i would like to know, commissioner, whether the partnership agreements with developing countries include renewable energy strategies, because it is of course important to us that wherever production is at an exemplary level, costs are reduced as much as possible, while the consumption of harmful goods is also taxed accordingly.
we all know how energy prices are affected by the different sectors.
we should ensure that the criterion of security of supply is transparent for all, that there is a distinction between costs and prices and, of course, that the sustainability of the whole system is guaranteed.
i am very much of the opinion that the sustainable use of plant protection products is very important for the future development of genetics and biotechnology, and i also believe that the risk indicators for human health and the environment are of particular importance.
secondly, climate change and the reduction of energy dependence must give new impetus to research, innovation, growth and employment.
thirdly, let us be frank: the euro/dollar exchange rate is moderating the increase in energy prices: the increase in the euro is 160%, the increase in the dollar is 340%.
the house politics committee has commissioned a study on the problems that climate change will bring us.
i would suggest that, following the barcelona target, we take 3% of that amount - that is, 1 to 6 billion - and equip the european institute for innovation and technology with its own climate change kick, focusing on energy efficiency, in the areas of production and consumption.
− smallholder biogas plants are useful because they complete an ecological cycle by using manure and other residues to produce biogas and then composting it into high-quality fertiliser or by linking it to the drying of feed material.
however, increased support for biogas plants should be rejected to avoid wasting high-quality food products for fuel and energy production.
the challenge around the world these days is to think about efficiency - in energy consumption, but also in production.
this is also one of the key principles of climate policy.
studies in the european union show that climate change will cost three-digit trillions of dollars.
- i am in favour of co-financing the 'living with the environment' programme by the european union, as this would benefit not only older people but also other groups of the population, such as the disabled.
i was saddened when the decision was taken unilaterally to establish an ecological fishing zone.
it is not that there are no good, substantive or objective reasons for an ecological management of fisheries, but it was not very sensible to take this unilateral step, but at the same time to promise italy and slovenia that no unilateral steps would be taken until a common solution was found.
i think we should carry out such evaluations from time to time and in particular also publish the findings from the member states in a register, because over the years, of course, conflicts arise on the individual issues, for example in the context of the water framework directive, where on the one hand we are trying to promote renewable energy, but on the other hand we are wasting water in vain.
i believe that steel research is of particular importance in the face of climate change, because we are naturally seeking to make production as efficient as possible and to make efficiency criteria an essential part of consumption.
agriculture and forestry is one of the economic sectors most affected by climate change and therefore has a strong interest in effective climate action, including at global level.
binding targets for developing countries are necessary, but emissions must be reduced within a reasonable period of time.
agriculture contributes to greenhouse gas emissions through livestock and fertilisers.
however, unlike industry, transport and space heating, these are all natural emissions.
some examples: in austria, agriculture accounts for only 8.66% of emissions.
since 1990, these emissions have fallen by about 14%.
apart from waste management, austrian agriculture is the only sector that has already met the austrian kyoto target of minus 13%.
the possibilities of agriculture range from the storage of co2 in the soil by optimal humus management to the production of biomass as a raw material for energy.
i would also like to point out, mr president, that industry in austria has made great efforts to keep its emissions as low as possible.
in the european union, agriculture has a 9% share of emissions and is therefore far less polluting than, for example, the energy sector at 59% and the transport sector at 21%.
the commissioner said that if we are to really tackle climate change, we must aim at energy avoidance or energy efficiency.
we all know that climate change is a big challenge.
people across europe will also feel the threatening effects of climate change on the environment, the economy and life in general.
a coherent strategy to combat climate change is therefore desirable.
it is essential that we try to fight climate change on two fronts at the same time.
europe must not only drastically reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, but also adapt to global warming.
this is the only way to tackle the effects of climate change in the future.
the more efficient use of energy and the already scarce water resources are among the measures to be taken.
it is important to me that member states which have already done more to combat climate change than others are not put at a disadvantage.
all countries should be forced to make an appropriate contribution to mitigating climate change.
if we do not take care of this, everything else will remain waste and arbitrary and, in the worst case, will become a questionable business of poorer countries, mainly non-european countries.
we now have the commission's proposals to increase ownership unbundling in the energy and telecommunications sectors.
- since the beginning of the eu, we have been fighting to control waste and abuse.
one is the development of healthy, sustainable agriculture.
so in our neighbourhood - in the balkans, in ukraine and in other countries - we also need to do more to develop sustainable agriculture.
and as for our energy policy objectives, we should not throw the baby out with the bath.
we must also carry out energy research in order to move towards a second or third technology, and i agree with you completely that we should use biomass and other raw materials, which do not have this negative effect, this displacement effect, as is the case now.
we want to manage our traffic better, whether on the road or on the water, and we want to manage our air traffic in such a way that we save energy, if possible, by better organising it here, and in this way also do something sensible about climate change.
for a country where human rights and democracy, environmental protection and sustainability are still of such low priority, this approach is probably not entirely illogical.
we need young people to help us find future-oriented and sustainable solutions to important questions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
at the same time, we know that climate change is making things worse.
but we also know that this loss of biodiversity is actually reducing our ability to respond to this very climate change.
i am therefore sorry to have to ask the commission why there is no mainstreaming of all our policies in terms of their sustainability, as far as biodiversity is concerned.
i would like to know whether the commission has already given some thought to the health check for agriculture, to how we can develop further in this area, particularly in the next financial perspective, because renewable energy and biofuels are obviously major challenges for us, which must also be incorporated into the financial framework of the health check.
we are discussing how we can preserve biodiversity for future generations, and at the same time we are taking measures that are clearly counterproductive.
not only does one litre of agricultural diesel require 9 000 litres of water, but it also releases nitrous oxide, which is much more harmful than co2, and we know that the production of energy crops is the very one that endangers and even destroys biodiversity.
in the light of these new findings and in the interest of preserving biodiversity, do you now consider that we should suspend what we have decided to add to agricultural diesel, invest in new research and perhaps develop an alternative approach, because we already know about the negative effects and results?
it would also be important to conclude the energy charter together.
we all know that there is a heated debate around the world about food and energy security.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the report - as the previous speakers have said - is invariably based on the scientific facts on climate change, which were discussed in depth in the thematic sessions with world-renowned experts.
agriculture and forestry is one of the economic sectors most affected by climate change and therefore has a strong interest in effective climate action at global level.
it is also known that renewable raw materials for fuels of plant origin do not release more co2 when burned than was captured during their growth and are therefore very likely to be carbon neutral.
the fact that humans are partly responsible for climate change has been recognized on the basis of sound research.
this is why it is important to intensify research and to save energy by using it more efficiently.
i therefore hope that the house will have a serious discussion, since climate change is a global problem affecting society as a whole and cannot be solved by sectoral policies in the individual member states of the eu.
a solution can only be achieved on a global scale, and the european union should play a leading and mediating role in the fight against climate change.
- if we in europe - albeit cost-intensively - invest in the latest environmentally friendly technology and renewable energy, while in china, for example, a new coal-fired power station is being connected to the grid every week, then everything we do here is just peanuts.
we have the bizarre situation that those nations which are accelerating climate change by unrestrained industrialization and the exploitation of nature and are not prepared to provide remedies here, when they become victims of disasters, then also expect help from the west, especially from europe.
we are supposed to protect the environment, often to the detriment of our industry and our import economy, and then to help the environmental offenders in the event of disaster with humanitarian aid.
if we do not want any improvement to remain a wishful thinking on a global scale, we must increase the pressure on those six countries which are responsible for almost 50% of global greenhouse gas production.
i think it is therefore very important that we think about how we can create new principles in the food industry that simply guarantee food safety, that put sustainability at the centre of production and that guarantee consumer-friendly prices.
we must also ensure that we put our concepts of energy efficiency and food security at the centre of our attention.
the poor countries most affected by rising prices must be helped out of the crisis as quickly as possible, in a well-organized manner and, above all, in a sustainable way.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life.
in this case, biomass would be the basis of the fuel, which is basically biological waste that is hardly used otherwise.
i would like to thank the staff of the house for hosting the energy globe awards, which was exemplary for the world and made a great impression on our house.
the first of these - and we have already discussed this in the group, as mr schulz has already said - is the question of energy security and the common energy policy.
but such agreements are being made today, and it is important to make clear, especially for the future, that such agreements, if they are made, must be embedded in a common security policy and a common energy policy.
however, it is essential that the agenda for the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements and more generally for cooperation between the eu and the acp states includes issues such as sustainable development, human rights, democracy and the establishment of functioning systems of the rule of law.
the impact of climate change could be particularly devastating in the regions of the acp states.
water scarcity and drought are major problems in the acp countries and solutions must be found to prevent environmental flight.
and the eu too is making headlines with accusations of corruption, mismanagement, waste of money and so on.
with the new waste framework directive, parliament has now enforced the setting of high and mandatory recycling quotas.
this was also urgently needed and i now look forward with confidence to a future in which waste separation and recycling will be increasingly practised throughout europe.
i believe that 50 per cent recycling of household waste and 70 per cent of construction and demolition waste by 2020 is a very good target, paving the way for a functioning, environmentally and climate-friendly waste management throughout europe.
i am very pleased that all the other member states will now be involved, and that we will be one step closer to effective environmental protection, precisely because the austrians are already setting an example in the separation and recycling of waste.
because we should not forget that waste is also a resource, and its more efficient use can also help in the fight against climate change.
the commission's proposal is to be expected, and it is to be expected that it will be a concrete proposal on how we can avoid economic growth being waste growth at the same time.
i would like to stress that europe is the continent or the political entity where we pay great attention to our environment and set very high standards.
in this context, i would also like to remind the commission that we should sell these successes, which we have undoubtedly achieved in european environmental policy, particularly in water policy, accordingly.
i would ask the commissioner to pay particular attention to this future water policy, because we are facing a lot of challenges in the context of climate protection, and water will become increasingly important in the economy and in people's lives.
in particular, illegal waste disposal and waste water disposal must be stopped.
for the energy market, this means: trust the big tigers, rwe, edf, trust yourself to go in the middle, where the problem is, disentangle and be subsidiary at the same time.
but if you do not change anything in this area, if you do not take account of the vote in ireland and declare the reform treaty dead, then the chance of the century for a democratic europe and also for a fair energy market will be a world in which the far left and the far right will have the upper hand.
i have to say, madam president, at the latest now, with record oil prices, energy independence must be a priority for europe.
this is another reason why i believe that it is the imperative of the hour that we in the eu invest more in alternative energy sources.
i have to say, madam president, what particularly surprises me about this debate is that some colleagues want to prescribe in detail how the competition is to take place - and there are several possibilities - but are not prepared to talk about more transparency, more incentives to save energy, complaints to energy consumers or the fight against energy poverty.
this is the message we must send to the citizens of europe tomorrow: we must say that people must not be hit by the full force of price increases, but that there must be ways of avoiding them by saving more energy and, above all, by being more transparent so that they can choose other energy suppliers.
i have to say, madam president, the european energy agency in paris has determined that we will have an energy shortage in 2012. so we need to think hard about how we can incentivise more investment in the network and in production.
it is important that we create planning certainty in the energy sector.
i think it makes sense to create a european internal market in the energy sector.
it must be possible to cross-subsidise between different energy sectors in order to ensure energy supply in the most remote regions and valleys and also on islands.
it is likely that the energy supply there is much more expensive and not so interesting for the companies financially.
as regards the question of high profits, which of course is not discussed here, i have repeatedly appealed to you, commissioner, if there are no controls, at least to ensure that some of these high profits - as is now being discussed in part in france - go to energy saving measures, the development of alternative energy sources and research.
we agree in principle with the commission's proposals on energy saving and consumer protection, but they were very weak.
it took this parliament and this decision today in the context of the morgan report to massively extend the rights of consumers, particularly in terms of energy saving, smart meters, etc.
on energy issues, we must see to it that we get our own resources, that we get a nabucco pipeline, for example, so that we are also in a stronger negotiating position with russia.
nevertheless, we must negotiate with russia on energy and other issues.
in the case of a chemical accident in a river in particular, the environmental damage can be extremely long-lasting and fatal.
i still believe that if a driver does not manage to adapt to the environmental conditions, it will be very difficult for him to do so, because we cannot yet standardise the weather in europe, and the weather has always had a major impact on the accident scene.
we have a lot of work to do to ensure that the road safety and the environment along the roads are as safe as we all want them to be.
but above all, we need more money for research and new transport strategies to finally achieve climate-friendly mobility.
otherwise we will agree to the report as it has been voted on in the areas of transparency, consumer friendliness, energy and poverty.
these are real concerns, especially in the face of rising energy prices.
but the european commission and this parliament should be leading the way, pointing out that this is possible and probably also sensible, in order to protect social interests at these high energy prices.
energy is the means for the future.
it is therefore important that we also look at the long-term prospects for europe's energy supply.
it is particularly important that we do not exclude longterm contracts but also take into account longterm contracts for a stable energy supply for europe.
ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that we ensure that gas supplies are placed in a competitive environment, and renewable energy is playing a major role in this, while natural gas is of course a competitor to renewable energy.
the correct distribution of energy supplies in europe will play an increasingly important role in the future, and our small and mediumsized enterprises in particular will have an important role to play in energy efficiency, because of course the renovation of buildings, the renovation of old houses plays an important role and a corresponding competitive situation in the supply of gas will also be felt in households.
they themselves should help us to achieve a healthy environment through the transport system.
i am very pleased that the strategic environmental audit directive (sea directive) has been adopted.
if environmental impact assessment procedures are carried out at the initial stage of a project's development, adverse effects can be avoided at the outset and do not have to be contained or combated until later.
the sup procedure promises to take environmental and health aspects into account even more intensively in project decisions in the future.
and sustainable development must always include environmental impacts in planning from the first to the last step, alongside economic and social aspects.
we must communicate that the euro is not to blame for the rising energy and commodity prices.
monocultures, deforestation of rainforests and competition for feed and food production, which have contributed to the current food crisis, seem to have caused eu ministers to rethink their approach and to shake the fixed target of increasing the share of renewable energy in transport to 10% by 2020. while it is welcome that biofuels should no longer be produced from food and that second-generation biofuels should be produced from waste, this should not lead to a reduction in the eu's efforts in the field of renewable energy.
the dramatic oil price changes make it more important than ever to promote renewable energy.
the billions spent on the problematic nuclear power generation should be put into renewable energy.
the economic development of a city and its accessibility require better mobility, but this must not come at the expense of the population and the environment.
i wonder if it would be worth considering incentives to take old cars off the market, because we have the highest consumption and co2 emissions.
russia is feeling particularly strong right now because of the high energy prices.
the commissioner, in cloning over several generations, is increasingly leading to a decline in the genetic diversity which is essential for the survival of a species, because it allows it to adapt to changes in its natural environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
hydrogen vehicles are suitable for this purpose, but they must guarantee a high level of safety and environmental protection.
and even if the cars themselves do not produce harmful emissions, it is still unclear how hydrogen can be produced as energy-efficient and co2-free as possible.
− russia is important to the eu not only as an energy supplier but also as a counterweight to the us's quest for world domination.
i would like to thank my colleagues, and especially the rapporteur, for the fact that environmental concerns have also been reflected in this dossier, as far as possible in this area.
the same applies to the listing of co2 emissions and fuel consumption: both must be visible to the customer.
- i vote for the report by michael cramer on a sustainable and efficient logistics and freight transport system.
this is the prerequisite for strengthening and expanding europe's position in international competition without doing so at the expense of the environment and citizens.
the 'green corridors' are a fundamental concept for optimising transport in europe, while ensuring that it is as sustainable as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market.
secondly, the via baltica with all its environmental problems.
it is a welcome opportunity to revitalise whole neighbourhoods, to tackle new buildings and projects, as long as sustainability is not forgotten.
- the eu deals with two billion tonnes of waste a year, of which 40 million is special waste.
the quantities produced by domestic plants, together with industrial waste, are likely to account for the largest share of this, although the latter naturally have a much higher hazard potential.
all of this is what the statistics tell us, which is why the eu has set itself the lofty goal of reducing the amount of waste it has to dispose of by 20 percent by 2010. it is hoped that in the field of agricultural waste, for example, the need to collect statistical data will not be reduced to a paper war against our farmers.
it must be remembered that terrorists do not fall from the sky, but come to the country and grow up in a hostile environment.
the european commission has done great work in many areas over the past few years - environmental and climate policy, for example - and we in this parliament are in the process of translating this into law.
we shall also be discussing this in the afternoon on the question of energy poverty, which we have raised again and again and on which we have not received any response from the commission, on which there are no real initiatives.
we say yes to the ecological re-design of our economy and society, we are fully at your side and will do so.
we have a programme on climate change, as if the bali conference had never taken place, as if europe had not emerged as the necessary global leader to combat the dangers of climate change.
the emphasis is still on nuclear energy.
it eats up capacity, money, energy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
in reality, they are not invested, for example, in alternative energy or other major investment projects, but are used to buy shares and pay dividends.
thirdly, the question of energy poverty.
it is not a problem for the commission to put together a very specific energy poverty package, irrespective of future legislation.
fourthly, the external energy policy, the supply of energy, particularly natural gas.
they simply said, we want and need this to diversify our energy supply.
i would like the council and the commission to act with greater strength and with greater determination and determination and to continue the appropriate diversification, because of course this is also important for energy supply.
but the question of energy poverty and what we are doing about it, which is still very serious, is of particular importance to our group.
i would like to ask commissioner piebalgs if it would be possible to speak to commissioner kovács to see that we get incentives and write-offs for investment in the energy sector so that the profits can be invested in a meaningful way and so that prices can also be brought down.
i would like to know what the situation is in the energy sector now with regard to real and financial purchases.
is there any proposal from the commission to make it clear in the statistics what is actually bought in energy and what is only traded on the financial market, and are you also planning to introduce a system of short selling?
biofuels, biodiesel, bioethanol - there are different efficiency values and different allocations, also in terms of co2 emissions.
what has not really been addressed is the direct use of energy in the extraction of the various fuels.
is this in the old form, in this hardware-oriented form, sustainable in the long run?
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
as early as 2007, one third of europeans lived in regions where water resources are scarce, according to the european environment agency.
this means that water is being over-exploited, and climate change is of course making this situation worse.
this is due to inefficiencies in outdated technologies and waste of water.
changes in environmental and climatic conditions, increased water use by the economy, agriculture and households, and of course changes in consumption habits have exacerbated water scarcity.
but that is only if we tackle the problem in its entirety and tackle the related root causes, such as population explosion or climate change.
but the eu has also contributed its share of the water waste by connecting and forcing people to use the canal systems.
i am really looking forward to the paper that the commission will hopefully present in the next few weeks, the green paper on adaptation to climate change, which we are all very anxiously awaiting, because we are all aware that the adaptation and climate protection part is mainly on the water side.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the council on its agreement on the third way on the energy package.
it is a sensible solution which will save us from expropriating the energy companies, but will still ensure that there is a fair competition.
secondly, the issue of co2 is of course an important one, particularly now in the financial crisis, because we are running the risk that auctioning will again overtake the real economy and create a new financial instrument for speculation, which will drive our energy-intensive industry out of europe.
i therefore call for the development of the transeuropean networks, particularly in the energy sector, and for the development of strategies for increased energy efficiency measures, because this is particularly important for our craft industries, for employment in europe and for net wages in europe.
the debate so far has shown very clearly that we have a lot of points of contact with russia, and many of these points of contact have probably also been points of conflict: the situation in the caucasus, georgia, the question of energy has been raised several times, and recently here again, and rightly so, the question of common interests in the financial crisis.
we have the intelligent energy programme, we have the seventh research framework programme.
the environment committee's proposal to make energy efficiency and emissions standards mandatory as procurement criteria for road vehicles by local and regional authorities fails to respect the principle of subsidiarity in some respects and, above all, involves an intolerable burden of red tape.
for example, the 'clean and energy-efficient road transport' label is too complex to establish and manage to be of much use.
−i am in favour of promoting environmentally friendly and energy-efficient vehicles in public tenders.
it is welcome that when buying a road vehicle, public authorities and certain companies must take into account not only the purchase price but also the energy and environmental impacts over its lifetime, including energy consumption, co2 emissions and other pollutant emissions.
but i would like to add this: we are not concerned with the environmental objectives for the car industry being weakened or postponed.
we insist that these environmental objectives be implemented and enforced, but at the same time we should also be able to discuss the economic problems of the car industry with a representative of the commission.
i am convinced that the common agricultural policy will be further developed to ensure that sustainable multifunctional agricultural production continues in all regions of the eu.
the priority now, as the situation is analysed, is to put in place a contingency plan, improve control mechanisms and damage reduction, but also to ensure access to credit for emerging and developing countries in order to restore sustainable growth.
the year 2009 will be decisive in the fight against climate change.
europe will have the chance next year to position itself as a strong international partner in climate action.
the eu's negotiating position for the copenhagen climate conference is not only a priority in the environmental field, but also has cross-links with other policy areas.
the european community can be a leader in this area, not only for the european continent but also for global climate action.
it is crucial that we give allowances for energy efficiency measures, for example, that we give investment bonuses, that we make corresponding progressive depreciation.
− the payments from the agricultural fund are intended to support our farmers in order to ensure the ecological and agricultural good condition of the agricultural land.
we are encouraging the transport of goods across europe and then promoting environmental measures to cushion the negative effects.
in this situation, when we also have to change industrial policy because of the environmental issue, would it not be more sensible to rely on more and better training programmes for top-level workers with a high potential for innovation?
firstly, you said that the political environment for such a regulation was not yet fully in place.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
reducing energy dependence, tackling climate change, overcoming the financial crisis and creating a credible defence, security and foreign policy require greater european unity, determination and capacity for action.
let us use the example of climate change legislation to show how the social market economy can function responsibly as a european regulatory model.
when we think about exemptions from the emissions trading system, we must not forget that energy companies have shamelessly charged consumers for their free allowances in order to make extra profits.
if the billions spent on this every year were put into renewable energy, we might not have any energy problems at all and we would certainly be a big step ahead in reducing co2.
i had the honour to reply on behalf of the group to the proposal for a climate package by president barroso.
i said at the time that my group fully supports the climate policy objectives.
but i already pointed out the problem of carbon leakage at that time, and it was clear to me at that time, commissioners, that the commission had done too little in this area.
it is not a question of saying goodbye to the objectives, but of giving those industries which use the most advanced environmentally-oriented technologies a corresponding starting advantage, and not of persuading these industries to disappear from the european union with their jobs and pollution.
it must be for the protection of the environment.
we do not need 100% free allocation in the carbon leakage industry, but we need 100% allocation and we need the ex ante benchmarks.
for those companies that are not at risk of carbon leakage, i think the 20/20 solution is best, so that we start with 20% auctions and with 20% auctions we also reach the target.
and with heat pumps, i would ask that we make sure that the air-to-air heat pumps are also included, because together with solar energy, we can of course prevent a lot of co2.
economic agreements too often protect only the interests of investors, so the eu must ensure that labour rules, social and environmental standards are also taken into account.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
i would first like to thank mr borloo for his commitment to the climate package, because it is a very good solution and one that we can defend with all our might.
i would like to ask the commissioner, mr dimas, to monitor compliance very closely and to remind the member states of the responsibility they have assumed to help the world's climate.
we also have the problem of defining carbon leakage precisely.
i would just like to point out that the different situations in the member states should be taken into account, not in terms of gross national product, but in germany, for example, where a lot of coal is still used for energy production, on the other hand france has a very strong use of nuclear energy.
the links between the energy package and climate change have been mentioned several times in the debate today, and quite rightly so.
i believe that this connection is inseparable and i hope that the timetable which has now been set out will also lead to a genuine consensus solution between the european institutions on the internal energy market in a few months' time.
i would like to say in this context that i do not think it is good - although it has been praised several times today - that we continue with the quick-fire technique that has just been used here on the climate issue.
that is why parliament insists that we introduce a separate budget line for the small business act and in particular a budget line for climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
we have two thirds of the workforce in small and mediumsized enterprises - after all, they produce 50% of the gross national product - and millions of new jobs could be created here, particularly if we focus on energy efficiency.
− when we promote new technologies for storing carbon dioxide, which is harmful to the climate, we must not leave behind proven technologies that already work.
for example, intact peatlands capture carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, but when peat is cut and dried, they become 'greenhouse gas emitters'.
and when tropical forests are burned to produce biofuels, the climate balance is also going in the wrong direction.
− in our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we subsidize the purchase of tropical biofuels.
if studies show that up to 46% of the world's living carbon is sequestered in tropical forests and 25% of total carbon emissions are caused by deforestation, then the eu's calculation is wrong.
in all the talk about carbon dioxide emissions, the big picture is forgotten.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
another problem that has not been solved is the environmental zones that have been created in many european countries, where surveys indicate that 40 percent of motorists would not recognize the signs or would drive without permission.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.