the commission has put forward a proposal to link the tax on cars to harmful emissions.
secondly, there is still a possibility of variation in the level of airport charges, and i am thinking, for example, of variation based on environmental performance, based on noise pollution.
i am convinced that in some cases greater flexibility is needed to safeguard not only the export interests of european companies but also to ensure the highest level of protection of the environment and public health for all parties involved.
− the transport sector accounts for one fifth of greenhouse gas emissions.
sustainable, efficient and clean cars can make a serious contribution to the fight against climate change.
we stress that the increasing global demand for transport fuels may lead to the exploitation of oil resources with significant negative environmental impacts such as tar sands or synthetic coal gas.
the choice of agrofuels can only be made if the commission provides for a binding, comprehensive certification system with strong social and environmental criteria.
finally, we also want to remove the paragraphs that (1) propose motorsport and formula 1 racing as possible contributions to more environmentally friendly technologies and (2) allow car manufacturers to produce cars that emit more co2 if these emissions are the result of legally binding measures taken at eu level.
we must create an environment that will allow everyone to live in dignity, peace and freedom.
these are not my words, but those of mohamed el baradei, head of the international atomic energy agency and nobel peace prize winner.
the socialist group is therefore convinced that europe can only continue to play its role if we fully commit ourselves to sustainable development, to research and innovation, to investment in people.
the greens/efa group have added the following to the report: the commission has also proposed that the council should take a decision on the establishment of a european ombudsman for children, the prohibition of child labour, equal pay for equal work for young people under 18, the recognition of the rights of refugee children and the right to a clean and protected environment.
that is the reason why i, together with the commissioner for the environment, mr dimas, and the commissioner for energy, mr piebalgs, have only just arrived.
the result was obtained by consensus in the college, with strong backing from all the members of the commission for a very ambitious proposal, because we have agreed what is now the most comprehensive package in terms of climate action and renewable energy that exists in any part of the world.
this package on climate action and renewable energy meets the challenges of the future.
the action we are discussing today proves this theory wrong: the struggle against climate change and the quest for secure, sustainable and competitive energy touches every european every day.
it was agreed in the european council, following a commission proposal, to bring about the ‘20/20/20 by 2020’ goals: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases, or 30% if other developed economies agree, 20% of energy use through renewables and a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020. this was agreed by the european council.
we believe that the main priority is to bring about a 20% cut in our greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and be ready, if necessary, to step up to 30% with an international agreement.
this is about global warming; it is about global climate change and not just about climate change in europe.
it is also important to lead by example and that is why, for instance, we are now proposing how to achieve the 20% of energy use through renewables by 2020. the package we have just approved in the commission includes the following: an updated emissions trading system (ets) to create a borderless ets to drive cuts in greenhouse gas emissions from big industrial emitters; specific, binding national targets, so that member states know exactly what they have to do outside the ets, in sectors like transport, buildings, agriculture and waste; a new approach to actively promote renewable targets, again including binding national targets; new rules to stimulate carbon capture and storage, tomorrow’s technology to cut emissions; and new state aid rules that take into consideration the specificity of the action needed in this environmental field.
part of our mandate was the 10% target for biofuels so that transport plays a part in emissions cuts.
i want to be clear that, in putting forward proposals on biofuels, we have also fully respected the other side of the mandate: the need for environmental sustainability.
the proposal creates the most comprehensive and sustainable system anywhere in the world for the certification of biofuels and for domestic and imported biofuels alike.
it is important to understand that what we are promoting is sustainable biofuels and we are making a contribution to a global regime, because what we have today is a situation where, in many cases, biofuels are not sustainable and do not respond to our criteria – criteria we want to be implemented not only in europe but throughout the world.
fourth, the proposals had to be designed to promote a comprehensive international agreement to cut greenhouse emissions, including stepping up our own effort to 30% emission cuts should other developed countries do the same.
last but not least, we must also start work now to halve global emissions by 2050. this means working today to bring tomorrow’s technology rapidly on stream.
this package should also be seen in articulation with some of our earlier proposals, namely the internal market for energy and the energy technology plan.
this is part of a very comprehensive set of proposals that is creating, for the first time, a real european energy policy, but we want this energy to be secure and also sustainable.
at the level of business, we all know that there are sectors where the cost of cutting emissions could have a real impact on competitiveness with companies in countries that do nothing – or do very little – in the fight against climate change.
there is no point in europe being tough if it just means production shifting to countries allowing a free-for-all on emissions.
energy-intensive industries will have ets allowances free of charge if there is no global or sectoral agreement.
i am making this point specifically, because it is very important that this package and the measures that the european union will adopt are not in favour of the environment and against the economy.
no, they are not only for the environment and our planet but also for our economy and for the competitiveness of the european economy.
we are encouraging member states to act in a sensitive way, such as using a share of the billions of euros to be gained in auctioning revenues to help the less well off to invest in energy-efficient homes.
but we must not forget the huge economic opportunity represented by europe’s transition to a low-emissions economy.
europe can be the first economy for the low-carbon age.
so, apart from the environmental aspects, apart from the economic aspects and apart from the very important geopolitical and security aspects – because let us not forget that we are speaking about security of supply, and we do not want to be dependent on regimes that are not our friends – it is also a great argument for european unity.
without prejudice to its other merits, this commission will certainly be remembered in the future as the commission which gave a new dimension to european integration, as the commission which drew up the climate and energy master plan.
europe is showing today that it is not afraid to take its responsibility in the field of energy and climate and that it can play a leading role in the world.
success does require an integrated approach, reconciling our ambitious energy and climate goals with our economic growth and jobs goals.
at the same time, we as europe must secure our energy supply and self-sufficiency.
on the one hand, we need to meet the climate targets, on the other hand, we need to have a performing economy that remains capable of creating jobs.
if the balance goes sideways, we risk losing both, for example because economic sectors move to places where there are not even carbon caps.
finally, the ppe group is aware that it is crucial that europe, and the rest of the world, should succeed in breaking free from its energy addiction.
the time has come to learn to consume less carbon on a large scale.
the question remains, for example, why iran is making it so difficult for the international atomic energy agency to monitor it.
a few things for the future: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
in january 2004, when i was reporting on the ecodesign directive for energy-consuming products, peter liese, karin scheele and claude turmes and i had already denounced the apparent lack of safety in many products and the unreliability of mandatory or voluntary labels in some cases.
a health threat recently relayed by the european environment agency.
last week in brussels we discussed the state of play of the strategy with the national parliamentarians and we quickly agreed on one thing: the new approach, which focuses on growth and jobs without forgetting the sustainability dimension, is bearing fruit.
the strategy promotes the growth potential of the european economy and creates a climate for job creation: 6.5 million already, 5 million more to come.
a better business climate is equally essential.
finally, the fact that climate change as a focus for the first kics was explicitly removed from the proposal no longer makes my support desirable.
the council will pay particular attention to three key issues: the single payment scheme, of course, the role of market-support instruments in the market, and of course, responding to existing and emerging challenges in the area of climate change risk management, among others.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
- i speak on behalf of kathalijne buitenweg, rapporteur for the committee on the environment, who has apologised for being ill. the committee on the environment made 17 recommendations, and i shall emphasize four of them.
the committee on the environment welcomes the commission's communication to tackle the problem of climate change and to support less intensive farming practices.
the committee on the environment stresses the need to achieve sustainable and multifunctional agriculture, and calls for the introduction of ecological and organic farming.
environmental and animal welfare measures and their compatibility by so-called simplification.
its usefulness is questionable and certainly not unambiguously good, either for the environment or for society.
- madam president, i would of course like to thank mr staes for his excellent work as rapporteur and the environment and agriculture committees for their contribution to the debate on this proposal for a regulation.
the proposal is part of the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides.
the objective of this thematic strategy is to reduce the impact of pesticides on human health and the environment.
finally, i would like to thank mr staes again for his excellent work on a very complex proposal, but at the same time one of enormous importance for the environment and human health.
the commission's proposal for the regulation on statistics and pesticides is indeed directly linked to the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides.
and that has to be done at the level where that is functionally best possible; the aim is therefore - and this is an important objective - to reduce the risks and burden on the environment and human health resulting from the use of pesticides in the medium term.
i think i have achieved those four objectives after the vote in the committee on the environment, but i know there are still difficulties.
i think we have had very constructive discussions, mr nassauer, and your concerns have been realised, including in the vote in the committee on the environment.
another point of contention with the epp group, ladies and gentlemen, is the decision by the committee on the environment to extend the scope of the regulation on the sale and use of pesticides to include the production, import, export and distribution of pesticides.
i think that this knowledge will be useful in achieving one of the aims of the regulation, which has also been clearly stated by the commissioner, namely to reduce the risks and the burden on the environment and public health caused by pesticides.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
at least, if we are to take responsibility for those who come after us in an age of globalisation, of climate change, of technological change and of ageing.
a relevant small business act should ensure that the best possible environment is created for smes to operate, both for micro and small and medium-sized enterprises.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this proposal, which we hope will be adopted tomorrow, is a good first step towards finally eliminating a distortion of competition which has existed for many years, especially in border regions, and it is also good for the environment, which has been taken into account.
but of course we all know that russia is too important an energy supplier and that the european heads of state and government will put this piece of paper aside.
- the fight against global warming is not a european fight, but must become a fight for the whole planet.
the european summit in march this year set a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 and of renewable energy providing 20% of the union's needs.
the climate plan would require companies and consumers to spend as little as 60 billion euros a year, which would be equivalent to 2 billion euros a year in my country, belgium, and at least 200 euros per citizen globally.
not only is there a risk of a huge tax increase, but this is also a factor that threatens to encourage companies to move abroad, where environmental regulations are less strict.
as a european parliament we would like to see support given to projects which reduce or have a negative carbon footprint.
but how do you explain to the europeans that you want to maintain purchasing power if they are the only ones who will have to cough up 200 euros a year and per family tomorrow for an ambitious climate plan?
how do you want to develop biofuels for our energy needs, and at the same time counter food shortages?
in developing standards for particulate emissions from motor vehicles, the commission initially focused on diesel cars and commercial vehicles, as the stock of these vehicles is significantly larger than the stock of motorised two-wheelers.
in 2007, the parliament and the council adopted a regulation on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles.
this euro 5 and euro 6 standard will reduce the additional particulate emissions from diesel vehicles from the current 25 milligrams per kilometre to 5 milligrams per kilometre.
the commission also presented a proposal for a regulation on emissions from heavy-duty vehicles, the euro vi standard, on 21 december 2007. it will reduce the limit values for nitrogen oxide emissions by 80% and particulate emissions by 66% compared with the current euro v standard.
the problem of particulate emissions from two-wheel vehicles is essentially a problem of two-stroke engines.
the particulate emissions of four-stroke engines are very low compared to these engines, even if they comply with the euro 5 standard.
in 2004, the commission commissioned a study to determine whether legislation to limit particulate emissions from two-stroke car engines is appropriate.
as the limits for hydrocarbon emissions from motorcycles and mopeds i.e.
for this reason, the commission has not yet proposed specific measures to limit particulate emissions from two-wheelers.
however, these emissions can be significantly reduced by using synthetic oil instead of mineral oil for engine lubrication.
you have rightly referred to the efforts already made by the commission in relation to emissions from lorries and cars, but no legislative proposal has yet been drawn up in relation to motorcycles.
secondly, we must be aware that pollution is very local and has a very strong effect, for example, on cyclists in the immediate vicinity of the scooters, which is a public health problem.
europe must finally realize that as the chinese take over in africa, our constantly repeated message of democracy, freedom, good governance and, not to forget, sustainability, becomes totally, totally meaningful.
i shall concentrate here on the two main parts of this resolution: the carbon trading system on the one hand and green taxation on the other.
the sad fact is that we are constantly hearing it: more than 1% of industrial co2 emissions in 2007, last year, when the european union set itself the ambitious targets we know at the spring summit: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020. in short, the machine is stuck and - i use a gentle euphemism - it must be restarted, to enter - it is time - into a time and into virtuous circles.
another cornerstone of this resolution is the green taxation, environmental taxation, the revolution, i do not know, that my colleague mr eguy was talking about.
the community market-based instruments must not be limited to the emissions trading system, we must consider other schemes and as the author i am very much in favour of paragraph 27 which revives the idea of a carbon tax in return for a reduction in fossil fuel subsidies.
however, and i agree with mr purvis and mr wittman, the alde group will not support the last sentence of paragraph 26, which calls on the commission to present a proposal for a community co2 tax before the end of 2008. we prefer that the union finish its ambitious energy and climate package.
to divide co2 emissions by three, for example, each european would have to emit eight times less carbon dioxide.
these figures are brutal to show that beyond the use of these market instruments in environmental protection, our individual responsibility cannot be avoided here and that the union will need a lot of energy to keep the course so that sustainable development is not just a fad but our model for all of us for tomorrow.
the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
these include climate change, energy, the social dimension and flexicurity.
i hope that this report will not be a waste of time, because article 128 of the treaty gives this parliament the right to be consulted, but in practice this right is in danger of being eroded.
climate change is also forcing us to change the way we deal with this energy-intensive market: the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the opportunity to make a contribution to the development of the mediterranean region.
i think it is important that in such an international environment tomorrow we know how the companies are structured, who is responsible, on the one hand, for finances, reliability, but also, on the other, for the important regulations in the transport sector as a whole.
on the one hand we take account of the environmental aspect by avoiding empty cars, on the other hand we are allowed - knowing that at the moment the social and also the fiscal conditions differ so much from country to country - not to promote direct dumping in these two areas through this regulation.
the result will therefore be that we will put a heavy burden on the environment and within a few weeks the commission will come forward with proposals for green transport.
i would like to thank the commissioner, mr president, first and foremost, for his very clear and comprehensive reply, which also offers prospects for a more sustainable food aid programme, based on the evaluation which is now under way.
the purpose of this project is, through the turkish armed forces, to educate conscripts who are doing their military service on the issues of human rights, gender equality, women’s rights, children’s rights, protection of the environment, general health care and the fight against drug addiction: in my view all very worthy causes, and this is what this programme called ‘civic training for conscripts’ in turkey is aimed at achieving.
the workshops on immigration, climate change, medicines for neglected diseases, all attracted a large number of participants with keen interest.
madam president, i think it is clear that the compromise before us is a substantial step forward for european environmental legislation.
my region of flanders is at the top of the waste policy list, together with the netherlands, for example, and is a champion in sorting and recycling, and so we feel that the recycling and prevention objectives provided for are absolutely inadequate.
we are also not entirely happy with the possibility of considering domestic waste incinerators as a useful application based on that energy efficiency formula which in practice we believe can lead to a great deal of confusion.
we have tried to tighten the text with further amendments on hazardous waste, the treatment of bio-waste, the 'end-of-waste' status and the concept of by-products and waste which is no longer waste.
we wanted binding targets to reduce the total waste mountain and to focus on recycling and reuse.
we are opposed to the idea that household incinerators can be considered as a useful application based on an energy efficiency formula.
the text finally adopted does not set a legally binding target for waste reduction.
the proposal to fund a study on how to prevent waste is absolutely inadequate in that respect.
- president, belgium has been a pioneer in waste policy for many years.
a european waste hierarchy is introduced for the first time.
substantial progress is also being made in the prevention, recycling and selective collection of household waste.
- the report by mr moreland, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology (a4-0177/97) on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0171 - c4-0177/97) for a directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles structural unbundling of the energy sector is needed today more than ever, but it should not be an end in itself.
if we look at the situation on the ground, i find that in my country, belgium, consumers will pay on average eur 300 more for their energy bill in 2008 than in 2007. i realize that this is due in large part to the rising price of oil, but certainly not entirely.
it is therefore essential that consumers should be aware of their rights in the energy sector.
in order to be able to compare, consumers must have a clear view of their actual energy consumption and be informed at least four times a year of their actual consumption.
finally, on the subject of the national action plans for energy poverty, i would like to say to alejo vidal-quadras that we are only citing the social tariffs as an example for the member states to use as a possible instrument.
we are going to the european energy market.
i think that we should also be able to give a european answer to the consumer from within the european energy market.
the commission's vice-president - you are quite right, the european arrest warrant must be a success, because it is really entering into a system of mutual recognition, which means that at this point the different judicial authorities begin to really work together in a climate of trust.
in order to approve substances for use in decontamination of any meat, the applicable law requires a positive, evidence-based finding in comitology, indicating that the use of the substances does not pose risks to health or the environment.
against this background, we have requested various scientific opinions which have assessed the risk of the use of the four amt substances from the point of view of health, environment and anti-microbial resistance.
appropriate environmental medication measures on waste water effluent quality standards, as proposed by dg environment.
and they're not alone, they're supported by the consumer movement, they're supported by the environmental movement.
it is not a question of the environment and health, as has been said and heard.
i have to say that i am speaking here in this debate because i feel closely involved in this subject, because i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment in 2003 on the 2003 directive; mr vermeer was the rapporteur at the time.
i do not wish to deny or minimize it, but i would stress that speculation does not in itself lead to higher energy prices unless structural reasons are given for it.
the era of cheap energy, at least fossil energy, is probably over for a while, probably for a long time.
first, to increase energy efficiency and thereby reduce our consumption, among other things.
and thereby reduce europe's and the european economy's dependence on imported fossil energy.
and secondly, diversification, especially the focus on renewable energy sources.
and here i agree with mr papadimoulis that more investment is needed in renewable energy, but more investment is being driven by higher fossil fuel energy prices.
the high energy prices are a particular problem for the poorer sections of our union, they are a particular problem for fishermen, which will be discussed in the next item on the agenda, they are a particular problem for transport operators.
i can say that the council expects to receive proposals from the european commission on this issue, on the taxation of energy, shortly.
costs overrun, there is local damage to the environment and people are unhappy about a lot of projects.
energy efficiency is the number one measure.
renewable energy and also alternative energy sources like nuclear are important also to alleviate the problem.
for developed nations we should lead the way in energy efficiency, and my proposal for international partnership has been adopted by the g8.
investing in renewable energy and energy saving is the task, especially in the medium term.
sheep and goats also play a beneficial role in the preservation of the environment.
inland waterway transport also reduces greenhouse gas emissions.
that's not only efficient, but above all, it's sustainable.
third, i am concerned about the looming food crisis and the effects of climate change.
i welcome the launch of a global climate change alliance and an energy efficiency and renewable energy fund, but we need to increase funding for these initiatives in the 2009 budget in addition to the development commitments.
we want the aviation industry to contribute to achieving our ambitious climate targets.
finally, i would say that it is self-evident that we should now also make efforts to involve third countries and introduce a similar system, so that we will have a global emissions trading system for aviation.
with today's adoption of a directive to include air traffic in the european emissions trading scheme, the european union is making further progress in the fight against climate change.
the agreement between the european parliament and the council will allow for a gradual and real reduction of greenhouse gases from 2012 onwards for all flights taking off and landing on european soil.
because it is clear that if the eu is to be innovative, engineers will also have to be very resourceful in reducing air pollution, while traffic is growing by 5% a year.
− if the eu is to meet its climate targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020, the aviation sector must also be included in an emissions trading system for greenhouse gas emissions.
aviation emissions have increased by almost 90 percent in the past year.
from 2012, the sector should be allowed to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by more than 1,5% per year.
in the end, the goal is not trade itself but reducing emissions.
the challenges of this new european legislation are fundamental for citizens, at a time when we are experiencing a vertiginous increase in energy prices.
we all want to meet the ambitious climate targets we have set ourselves.
we believe that the european union should take the lead in terms of harmonisation, standardisation, interoperability and research and development in order to increase the chances of success of new projects, including in the field of public transport, and to facilitate the spread of sustainable solutions throughout europe.
a year and a half ago, biofuels were a miracle cure in the fight against global warming.
today, it is clear, they are being gradually vilified, and i note that the commission supports the course taken by the energy ministers over the weekend - even though it will probably deny it.
so i think we must stop this escalation and my group and i are in favour of clear, even tough relations with russia, particularly on energy issues, on human rights, on international law, but not for a return to the cold war.
- madam president, madam secretary of state - thank you for your apparent haste to get to this debate on time - commissioner dimas, colleagues, health and the environment do not always go hand in hand, especially at the beginning of the 21st century.
citizens are exposed to pollution in various forms, often interrelated, whether they live in the city or in the countryside, on the sea or in the mountains.
it is therefore no coincidence that, according to the latest figures provided by eurostat, six out of ten european citizens think it is very likely or relatively likely that environmental pollution is harmful to their health and also, importantly, that the european union is not doing enough in this area and that is the whole point of our debate this morning.
three years later, where are we in reducing pollution-related disease?
the european union, it has been said, has had a number of successes in combating various forms of pollution.
among others - it is impossible to list them all here - the new legislation on ambient air quality - which owes much to your energy, commissioner - the pesticides package, which is about to be completed, and then of course reach, with the control of more than 10 000 chemicals and the envisaged substitution for the most problematic of them.
i should also like to mention, and this is important, the funding by the commission over the last three years of more than thirty-eight projects on the environment and health in the context of the sixth research framework programme, for a total amount estimated at more than eur 200 million.
the second and not least concern, which is covered extensively in our report in paragraphs 23 to 25, is the issue of climate change.
as regards the climate/energy package to be adopted, we know that its counterpart is a level of long-term investment, with a rate of return, a rate of return on capital, relatively moderate to meet the needs of investment.
we fully support the need for the public service broadcaster to be given the space to play its role in a digital, interactive media environment, in balance, of course, with the commercial broadcasters.
of course we are all tired of the waste of money that results from the 'fragmentation' of the european parliament.
because sometimes small amounts of this highly polluting fuel can cause a lot of damage to the environment, as in the case of the accident with the tricolor off the belgian-french coast.
india has a fast-growing economy, which has an impact on energy demand.
secondly, i would like to say a word about the crisis, and that is my message to you, mr barroso, since you are setting up another think tank - there are many, but perhaps a new one is welcome - and in particular on the link between the financial crisis and the ecological crisis.
the financial crisis, as you yourself have pointed out, does not erase the ecological crisis.
i am thinking in particular of the european investment bank, which should be responsible for providing long-term financing to ensure that the climate/energy package and the investments it represents are effectively secured.
− it has long been clear that the least developed countries (ldcs) are the most affected by global warming, while they have contributed the least to it.
the idea is to create an alliance to combat climate change, but the commission is not providing enough money for this.
the cost of climate change could be as high as 80 billion euros.
the budget allocated by the commission is eur 60 million: far too little for the mols to prepare for climate change.
the european parliament also proposes to use at least 25% of the eu's revenues from the emissions trading system for the alliance.
it seems that the union is beginning to think differently about development cooperation in the light of climate change, and that is a good thing.
erasmus mundus ii should also contribute to the sustainable development of higher education in europe and in third countries, with the commission making every effort to prevent brain drain.
president, commissioner, if we want to have a credible climate policy and we are facing crucial weeks in this respect then the government must first of all set the right example.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the member states.
i therefore naturally voted in favour of the report by the italian mep roberta angelilli, who advocates the use of the internet in a secure environment, ensuring that the physical and moral integrity of our children is protected as much as possible.
we may have over-committed ourselves to hydrogen, when we need to have energy-efficient hybrid electric motors in the very short term.
for external aid and internal policies, such as transport and energy, as well as education and citizenship, the court does note improvements.
agriculture, the cohesion fund, the structural funds, the regional fund, social policy, rural development, research and development, energy, transport, external aid, development and enlargement, education and citizenship.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
today i am hearing that our pegase instrument has completely stopped working in gaza, that it can no longer provide energy, that the payment of salaries and pensions to palestinian authority officials has been suspended, as has the allowance for the poorest.
i can agree with the general objectives, mr president, particularly with regard to the climate plan, namely that we want to achieve a reduction in co2 emissions and reduce dependence on energy imports from outside the european union, but i am also convinced that more realism is needed in the concrete objectives that are being put forward.
the main standard for determining the share of renewable energy is the gross domestic product of the member states and not the natural potential to produce that renewable energy.
it is not clear how to increase the share of renewable energy from barely 2% to 13% by 2020. the practical implementation of the climate plan will therefore be a very heavy burden for the flemish economy and for flemish consumers, who will also pay higher prices for, among other things, electricity.
we have set ourselves the task of taking the lead in the global fight against global warming.
we understand that our friends in poland, among others, want guarantees that they will not be presented with the heaviest bill of a climate agreement.
the agreement reached this week on the limitation of co2 emissions from new cars is being criticised as not going far enough.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
president, the target of 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 has been met.
in 2020, we'll still be giving out 30% free allowances, and the 100% auction won't happen until 2027. this is a really bad signal to those who have to negotiate the global climate agreement in copenhagen, and that is when the best answer to carbon leakage is actually a global agreement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive.
less revenue from auctioning rights means less investment in renewable energy, less investment in research and development.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the member states are not able to meet the requirements of the directive.
− i agreed to the report on the climate package because it includes different directives, all of which are in line with the eu's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 and even by 30% if an international agreement is reached.
one of the directives concerns renewable energy.
it includes the objective of increasing the share of renewable energy sources to 20% and increasing energy efficiency by 20%.
the aim is to achieve 10% of fuel consumption from renewable energy sources.
sustainability criteria have been defined to facilitate their application.
i welcome this regulation because it not only reduces europe's energy dependence and creates new jobs but also encourages innovation in technological development.
the directive, which relates to the european emissions trading scheme (ets), modernises the existing emissions trading scheme and requires that emissions allowances previously free of charge are now auctioned by industry.
exceptions in the form of transitional periods are made for eastern european countries, which initially have to purchase allowances for only 30% of their emissions.
the commission has also proposed incentives for energy efficiency, which are not tied to a specific purpose but require member states to invest at least half of their revenues in developing countries and new technologies.
i am in favour of a successful balance between taking account of the industries facing difficult problems and an ambitious environmental policy.
another directive regulates the fair burden sharing of emissions not covered by the ets.
this includes heating and air conditioning and many economic sectors (transport, small industrial plants, services and agriculture) which, although not covered by the ets, are nonetheless significant contributors to greenhouse gas emissions.
the carbon capture and storage (ccs) directive makes it possible to separate co2 from the exhaust gas and then store it underground.
in addition, regulations have been introduced within another directive which provides for limit values for co2 emissions from new cars.
from 2015, the average co2 emissions of each new car will be reduced to 120 grams per kilometre and from 2020 to 95 grams per kilometre.
i see the climate package not only as an important step, but as a leap forward that will counter the progress of climate change and strengthen europe's leadership on the path to an efficient energy policy.
the major challenge is to avoid environmental dumping at international level.
for this reason, countries that do not comply with the kyoto protocol and are therefore not bound by the co2 standards should be subject to an import tax or similar measures to counter environmental dumping.
this is an aspect that should be taken into account in the successor agreement to the kyoto protocol within the un climate change conference, which will be negotiated in december 2009 by the us, china and india, among others.
the climate package has provided a solid basis for the conclusion of a new international agreement.
- i voted with great conviction in favour of the compromise reached on renewable energy sources.
his work and that of the whole parliament is ensuring that a strong legislative framework is in place to ensure that the total share of renewable energy is at least 20% by 2020. this is not a hype.
this is a real energy revolution and it's going to create a massive number of jobs.
the turmes report clearly strengthens the sustainability criteria and also refers to social criteria within the framework of the international labour organisation.
it is economically absurd to invest many millions of euros abroad through the clean development mechanism when you as a country have to make significant efforts to properly insulate your own buildings or design a transport policy aimed at more low-carbon mobility.
- i voted against the compromise in the sacconi report on co2 emissions from cars.
this is a disgraceful dossier in which the car manufacturers are once again evading the obligation to build cars which consume less energy and pollute less.
a standard of 95 grams of co2 emissions/km is envisaged by 1 january 2020. in 1996, industry agreed to a maximum emission of 140 grams in 2008. the reality is: we're now at an average emission of 162 grams.
the automobile industry has no future unless it chooses energy-efficient and non-polluting vehicles.