i welcome the commission’s appeal to send an observer mission to this election but i have two questions for the commissioner: one is, we have heard various reports of voting lists being destroyed around the country and how can an election take place in this environment?
notwithstanding rapid economic growth, poverty is still widespread in the region and we continue to promote economic reforms, steps to improve the business climate but also to strengthen the rule of law.
and i also agree with the need stressed in ms polfer’s report for more regional cooperation activities, in particular in the areas of energy, transport and the environment.
the commission promotes a black sea dialogue on energy security, making use of the inogate structure.
our intention is to carry on working closely with our partners in the construction of new energy infrastructure, developing a trans-black sea energy corridor.
the commission is working on strengthening the black sea-danube connection and we intend to join the black sea commission, which deals with environmental tasks.
so the commission has been developing some proposals for regional schemes to combat climate change and we have also begun the implementation of our black sea cross-border cooperation programme focusing on civil society and on local authorities.
the black sea is a border of the european union, a geostrategic crossroads and transit region, an area of cooperation in the fields of trade, fisheries, tourism, shipping, a strategic area in european energy policy.
the committee on international trade calls for better coordination of cooperation through a stand-alone black sea strategy and draws attention to the union's participation in infrastructure projects related to the transport of energy resources.
it is important to promote investment in environmental protection, risk prevention, disaster response and rescue in the event of accidents such as those in kerch and the shipwreck of the bulgarian vessel vanessa.
if at the cost of the uk's rib we could solve the problems of human trafficking, energy independence, black sea security, i don't think we would find a new member state that wouldn't give up a billion euros of its own funds to solve these problems.
when we talk about europe's energy problems, i want to say that this report contains a very important message: the black sea is of strategic importance for europe because it can serve to increase its energy dependence on one source, as well as it can serve to diversify sources...sources and energy independence.
and i say to all of you: let us not allow europe and individual countries in the european union to become more dependent on one or another source of energy.
first, the region is of major strategic importance to the european union in terms of security, energy supply, transport and trade, the environment, etc.
secondly, there is a lack of transport and energy infrastructure throughout the region.
i urge the commission to call on national governments, when implementing major infrastructure, energy and environmental projects affecting the livelihoods, health and quality of life of the citizens in the towns and municipalities where these projects will be implemented, to provide local communities with information on the technical parameters of the projects, in line with the highest international standards accepted for such projects.
sharing the deep concern expressed in the report about the state of the environment in the black sea region, in particular the state of the black sea, which is affected by uncontrolled pollution, aggravated by numerous environmental disasters, i urge that independent assessments of the impact of the construction of new oil and gas transport infrastructure on the environment and the public life of citizens be carried out and that reports by national governments on the possible harm from such projects be made available for public referenda and debate.
in full accordance with the principles of sustainable development and overcoming environmental disasters advocated in the report, and in the context of the last two tragic incidents in the kerch region last november and the first week of the new year, it is necessary to establish a mechanism to respect the interests of local communities in coastal municipalities when there is a threat to the purity of the black sea, to the livelihood and quality of life of citizens in these settlements.
commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your mr president, ladies and gentlemen, equal participation of women and men in the labour market is a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth and harmonious social development.
madam president, i join with the majority of speakers in acknowledging the importance of this energy and environment package.
i also believe that it will be a new major step in increasing the role of europe in the fight against climate change.
i should like to express my satisfaction with the fact that the commission has taken into account the position of countries like mine, bulgaria, especially as far as trade outside the emissions trading scheme is concerned and with regard to specifying targets for renewables.
as far as competitiveness is concerned, however, a lot has to be done in order to make the commission’s proposals more precise and, in the absence of a possible future agreement, we should be very careful regarding countries like bulgaria and the energy mix, so that the possibilities for further developing energy and industry are preserved on the basis of achievable targets and at an achievable price.
oil pollution is the azov and black seas.
today, once again, we are debating important energy issues in this parliament, which is proof that tackling energy issues in their interrelationship with climate change is one of the highest priorities of the european institutions.
there is no doubt that energy efficiency is one of the pillars on which our energy policy will rest for a long time to come.
european citizens are aware of their role and the role of energy efficiency in climate stabilisation and a more secure energy future.
therefore, with such public support and such a favourable political situation, i encourage the commission to be even more proactive, to use all the leverage to ensure that the ambitious 20% targets are met, so that the benefits of energy efficiency reach every european.
at the same time, if our ultimate goal is to save the planet from catastrophic climate change and at the same time have an energy-secure and competitive europe on the global market, the remaining 80% of energy needs to be given adequate attention to its importance.
among these 80% is nuclear energy, which is currently undervalued, and which continues to be weighed down by the fears and dogmas of the past two decades.
we must gather all our wisdom and reason to overcome this and speak up for nuclear energy openly and clearly as a business and an opportunity that humanity and europe cannot afford to miss.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to speak on the basis of a huge social, economic, environmental and moral problem that has been eating away at bulgarian society for 18 years.
it is the answer to the challenges of globalisation, making it possible to establish the european union as an area of economic growth, social and environmental well-being, technological development and modernisation.
the european union has made great strides towards transforming itself into an ecological society.
new ambitious commitments were made to drastically reduce carbon dioxide emissions and use renewable energy from 2020. liberals and democrats believe that a green society can only be achieved if research and innovation deliver the necessary 'green' technologies.
economic growth, low unemployment, high social standards and a dynamic business environment are not mutually exclusive.
these include creating the conditions for a more flexible and better functioning labour market, allowing for social integration; reducing administrative burdens and achieving better governance; improving the international standing of european business; more imports, exports and investment; improving transparency and stability in financial markets; better consumer protection; more commitment to the environment; more efficient use of the community structural funds to deliver on the strategy; and strengthening the transport network of trans-european projects.
the texts proposed contain several main lines, including: achieving sustainable and balanced public finances; promoting the development of diverse financial instruments while ensuring transparency and security; using tax breaks for companies that hire older workers; accelerating the process of labour market liberalisation, or internal migration, as commissioner spidla said, in the enlarged eu, even before 2014; promoting employment among young people and those with family responsibilities through innovative work schemes such as shift work, part-time work, lifelong learning.
(the president declared the common position approved as amended)
i would like to draw your attention to the case of "sukhodol" - the environmental disaster in the bulgarian capital, which directly affects the health and lives of millions of inhabitants.
in december 2007, citizens affected by the unregulated landfill in the district of sukhodol sent a petition to the president of the european parliament after the landfill, which had been closed in 2005 by a decision of the ministry of environment and water, was illegally reopened on 4 december 2007 with the intervention of more than 2500 police and gendarmes.
the municipality of sofia, illegally supported by the council of ministers of the republic of bulgaria, carried out an activity for which the mandatory assessment by the ministry of the environment and the subsequent public consultation with the affected population were not carried out.
please, in order to stop bioterrorism, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on petitions... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
mrs president, commissioner, sustainable transport policy, taking into account energy and environmental aspects, includes: transport infrastructure, means of transport, employment through transport, mobility of people and movement of goods.
pan-european transport networks require a balance between quality and environmental safety.
there's also talk of sustainable intermodal schemes.
it should cover and develop the best of the best of individual scientific structures, universities, which will be linked to the priorities in energy, climate change, new progressive materials, without which the development of the world is impossible.
i hope that the commission will accept this compromise proposal, even though it too is a major effort for our economy and will be an inflationary factor without being able to influence this environmental protection decision, since petrol and diesel are not elastic products and are not dependent on excise duties but on many other economic factors.
- the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has made a priority of the europe of results, and environmental policy has been - and is - a very successful policy of the european union, since it has brought concrete and tangible benefits to its citizens.
in some 80%, the environmental legislation of the member states is based on the corresponding legislation of the european union.
european legislation has made a decisive contribution to the very significant improvement of air and water quality, as well as to the protection and preservation of europe's natural wealth, and it enables the european union to lead the world on issues such as climate change, biodiversity and chemicals legislation.
it has been almost a year since the commission adopted its communication on the mid-term review of the sixth community environment action programme.
the last year has been particularly important, as environmental issues have been consistently placed at the top of the political priorities of the european union.
the bali conference last december set in motion the process of reaching a new global climate agreement by the end of 2009. the european union's 'green diplomacy' has been a decisive influence in achieving this positive result.
the commission's climate and energy package presented in january was ambitious and demonstrated the european union's determination to continue to set an example internationally.
the proposal for a new directive on industrial emissions strengthens existing provisions and also simplifies existing legislation by merging seven different directives, including one on integrated pollution prevention and control, into a single directive.
it was also important that in the intervening period one of the main messages of the mid-term review was largely accepted by industry, namely that the long-term viability of the european economy needs to be based on sound environmental principles.
the high standards set by european union environmental legislation encourage eco-innovation, which in turn boosts industrial efficiency and creates new jobs.
in other words, ambitious environmental targets not only improve the quality of life of europe's citizens, but also play a central role in achieving our goals for economic growth and jobs.
however, these positive developments are overturned by the scientific evidence that europe has not yet entered a sustainable environmental development path.
we have, of course, only halfway through the period covered by the sixth environment action programme, but it is clear that much more needs to be done to address current and emerging threats to our environment.
these initiatives include the revision of the directive on national emission ceilings and a set of proposals in the field of sustainable consumption and production.
improving this application is key to achieving a better environment.
only by ensuring the proper implementation of the acquis in its entirety will it be possible to achieve the objectives of the 6th environment action programme.
i am pleased that in the last two years the commission has been able to dispel the fears that by 'improved legislation' it meant low environmental standards.
the truth is that older and simpler legislation is one of the best ways of improving enforcement and can thus also contribute to better environmental protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased that your report contains constructive conclusions on how europe can achieve a better environment and truly sustainable development.
it now remains to transform this support policy into concrete actions leading to a better environment from 2012 onwards.
- madam president, commissioner, colleagues, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development, i would like to emphasise the essential role of regional and local authorities in environmental protection and sustainable development.
regions and municipalities are the places where decisions are made and european environmental legislation is put into practice.
water supply and sanitation, waste management, public transport and urban planning are just some examples.
member states, their regional and local authorities should be encouraged to make the most of the structural funds, while ensuring that their operational programmes contribute to better implementation of environmental legislation.
finally, regional cooperation should be used as a vital tool in environmental policy.
cooperation between member states, as well as with countries and regions bordering the european union, such as the black, baltic and mediterranean regions, is an opportunity to prevent crossborder pollution.
the overall price increase depends on the value of energy, and the european union is energy dependent.
in this respect, the discussion on food prices must go beyond the rational use of agricultural land and the search for alternative ways of producing energy.
the price of food can also be controlled by regulating the prices of traditional energy sources.
this calls for a rethinking of the use of nuclear energy within the european union's energy mix.
the full capacity of existing nuclear installations in the member states would make it possible to compensate for the energy shortage and would influence the price formation of the goods in the consumer basket.
not only have we already made some agreements with the european investment bank, and these have been approved by the council and this parliament, to do more with the same budgetary resources in areas such as the transeuropean networks or also research and development policy, but we are considering, in the framework of the review of the community budget which we will propose for debate at the end of 2008 or the beginning of 2009, to extend these innovative financing mechanisms, and the consequent multiplication of the capacity for action through the available budgetary resources, to other priority areas such as energy or climate change.
the dynamic process of economic and financial integration on a global scale is at the heart of the complex international economic environment.
risks are now emerging, such as rising energy prices, which are affecting agricultural prices and, in aggregate, creating inflationary pressures, as well as a food problem, limited capacity of the supply infrastructure on which international trade depends, financial shocks.
i am drawing attention to risks and uncertainties not to make the dream restless, but to highlight some parameters of the international economic environment and the need for policies to correct imbalances and assist vulnerable economies.
environmental protection is cheaper than remediation, but the failure to apply fair market instruments means a hidden subsidy for pollution.
this increases emissions, but low allowances are punitive and consumers bear the higher cost.
without a change in the allocation of carbon dioxide allowances and without sufficient compensation for the shut down power units, the application of the remaining commercial instruments will lead to more problems.
environmental economics has its social dimensions, and we shouldn't wait until 2010 or 2013 for that to happen.
i believe that with eu support, sport should and can become part of the sustainable development strategies of our regions, municipalities, cities and villages.
madam president, commissioner, given the role of trade in a globalising world, we must support efforts to promote fair trade and all initiatives that contribute to sustainable economic development.
europe must overcome climate change and secure the supply of natural resources.
there is a solution, and it's new technologies that will lead to a preemptive reduction of emissions on the one hand, and a more efficient and economical use of raw materials on the other.
in this way, europe will play a leading role in tackling global warming and maintain its competitiveness on the global commodity market.
new technologies, in particular hydrogen technologies and fuel cell development, will be crucial to overcoming energy shortages, protecting the environment and meeting the criteria of the kyoto protocol.
only by introducing new, highly efficient and environmentally safe methods for the recovery and recycling of these metals can the necessary efficient and sustainable development of hydrogen and fuel cell technologies be achieved.
the establishment of a joint organisation should integrate the efforts of all parties with experience both in the direct development of hydrogen and fuel cell technologies and in the technologies for the sustainable and environmentally sound extraction of the necessary raw materials.
modern developments are presenting maritime countries, and not only maritime countries, with serious challenges: on the one hand, the need to protect the environment, water, coastline, biodiversity, and the livelihoods of people, and on the other, the efficient use of marine resources in the interests of the development of society and of people.
i draw attention to the need for strict control of maritime transport and all energy projects across the seas and creating conditions for sustainable and renewable marine resources.
through the method of increased cooperation between different coastal entities, more must be done to improve environmental protection of local ecosystems.
additionally, in order to avoid environmental harm caused by ship accidents such as the crash of oil tankers in the black sea a few months ago, i would like to see clear guidelines on seafaring in european and nearby maritime waters.
i would like to express my support for the joint resolution proposed and to touch, as during the legislative dialogue in ljubljana, on two issues: climate change and energy, where the two countries - the united states and europe - need to cooperate more fully.
otherwise, countries like bulgaria will be seriously affected by the decline in the competitiveness of their production and exports if we alone implement the european commission's proposals on climate change.
as regards energy, cooperation should not only be on clean technologies and the setting up of a fund for this, but also in the field of nuclear energy, which is becoming increasingly important in the world and especially in countries such as china and india.
we can only be partners here if the european union takes a more open approach to nuclear energy in its common policy.
in addition to environmental damage, illegal fishing has economic and social consequences that cost the legal fishing industry billions of euros a year.
themes such as the sustainable development strategy, the european immigration pact, a europe of defence and the reform of the common agricultural policy are essential for europe.
− the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation 1228/1999 on access to the network for crossborder exchanges in electricity aims at the full completion of the community energy market.
the economic committee's opinion focuses on improving the competitive environment and overcoming existing barriers to access to the network of new market entrants and stimulating investments that are crucial for national economies and individual consumers.
the drivers in the energy sector are demand, supply and environmental impact.
decisions should take into account the momentum in the energy sector as well as its strategic importance for the development of modern economies.
madam president, i believe that this house, along with the council and commission, believes very strongly that consumer rights in the energy sector in europe should be clearly stated and well protected.
we also all agree that we need a tool with which to clarify and consolidate energy rights that exist in european and national legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in many countries around the world there is a concept of 'energy mafia'.
that's the generic term we're used to refer to dirty things in the energy industry.
unlike other countries, however, the energy mafia in bulgaria makes a clear request to enter politics, and not through fair and transparent elections, but as it is always accustomed to doing - with the help of money.
in the last election, we had a message sent to the citizens that if they voted for this party, they would be forgiven their energy bills.
the number of people killed and injured is a huge humanitarian, health, financial, social and demographic issue, and the costs of this tragedy have multiple negative implications for quality of life, sustainable development and, not least, global warming.
they also touch on global issues like climate change, fighting hunger and pandemics, terrorism.
there are others that are regional in nature but of great importance to the european union: energy security, trade and economic relations, relations with common neighbours.
- mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the energy future of europe faces two challenges.
the first is a secure, sustainable and competitive supply via an efficient, operational and interconnected internal market.
the second is a mutation that is essential to combat greenhouse gas emissions and climate change.
on the first point in particular, and on the whole, i would like to highlight the progress made by the slovenian presidency which led to the adoption of a general guideline on the whole 'internal energy market' package at the june council.
but also the investment of third countries in transport networks, which is closely linked to energy security issues.
the next step, ladies and gentlemen, will be to confirm this general approach by adopting a political agreement on 10 october at the energy council and then transmitting the common position in november or december.
i believe that the establishment of a low-carbon economy is crucial, while respecting the choice of each member state's energy mix, of course.
i would like to mention the commercial use of carbon capture and sequestration, the doubling of the production capacity of the largest wind turbines, the commercial maturity of solar photovoltaic or thermodynamic energy, second generation biofuels produced in a sustainable way, the launch on the public market of devices enabling more efficient end use of energy in construction, transport and industry, decisive advances in energy efficiency for materials, biosciences, information technologies.
there are wind, solar, bioenergy, co2 capture, transport and storage, electricity grids and finally sustainable nuclear fission, support and stimulation of research efforts, particularly in the field of energy efficiency, and finally the establishment of agreements between public authorities, industry and researchers, aimed at supporting the objectives set out in the strategic plan.
in conclusion, i would like to thank the commission and the rapporteurs for the work they have done so far and i hope that our positions will converge at the second reading on the internal energy market.
− mr president, i am very pleased to be here again today to discuss the second part of the internal energy market package, namely gas.
let me explain why gas market liberalisation is as essential as electricity market liberalisation for a competitive, sustainable and secure energy supply in the european union.
gas is one of the main energy sources in the eu for both industry and households.
energy prices are spiking: now, more than ever, eu consumers need a competitive gas market so that they pay only the cost for efficient supply.
i would like to quote the international energy agency: ‘in many regions, gas-fired plant sets the price of electricity a significant proportion of the time.
... policymakers must appreciate the growing intertwining of gas and electricity industries, and design markets and regulatory systems accordingly.’ this is even more the case at a time when we need more renewable energy.
if we want to reduce carbon emissions and combat climate change, it is one of the very efficient ways, but we need to make sure that our gas supply is competitive.
i am pleased to see that many of the horizontal concerns, as regards the protection of vulnerable customers and the fight against energy poverty, have also been taken up in the gas report.
i can assure you that the commission will play a very constructive role in finding the solution that is beneficial for all eu citizens and developing our strength, which is the internal energy market.
on the second report, i would like to congratulate mr buzek for his excellent report and express my appreciation for the committee on industry, research and energy’s support for the strategic energy technology (set) plan initiative.
we all know that on energy and climate change we face an enormous challenge.
a much more profound change is needed in the longer term: a complete overhaul of the energy systems that have delivered our current prosperity and wealth.
these will be delivered by research and innovation in energy technologies.
we need to snap out of the lethargy that has characterised energy innovation in recent decades.
of course, we do not all agree on which technologies we need but, as we know, it is up to each member state to decide on its preferences on the basis of their preferred energy mix, indigenous resource base and exploitation potential.
we agree on the crucial importance of energy savings and energy efficiency.
mr president, the debate and vote in the july plenary session on the regulation on access conditions to gas transmission networks will complete, alongside mr la russa's report, the debate on the third energy package.
i think that on this basis i can first of all express my gratitude to all the shadow rapporteurs with whom i worked during the preparation of the report, and to the rapporteurs on the other two regulations, with whom we have reached a common approach to the problems of the third energy package.
we believe that this agency is the important body which, under the commission's direction, should determine the main directions and guidelines for the development of the energy market, including the gas market.
this regional investment plan, which will be developed on the basis of the ten-year investment plan, will effectively help the member states to cooperate at regional level as a stage for a future common energy market.
i call on the commission to take account of the potential of the new member states, including bulgaria, in the development and application of new energy technologies.
the commission should put in place research support mechanisms to meet the 2020 targets and to reduce greenhouse gases by 60 to 80% by 2050. low-carbon and decarbonising technologies for electricity and heat generation must be brought to market.
i would like to call for better cooperation between member states in the development of new energy technologies.
i therefore call on the commission once again to take account of the potential of the new member states, including bulgaria, in the development and application of new energy technologies.
we know that we are looking for secure, sustainable and affordable energy supplies and at the same time we also now realise that the change in the energy sector came a bit earlier than everybody anticipated.
they have a research project on how to increase the efficiency of energy supply, combining the cycle of gas turbines and fuel cells, so in a way trying to rely on existing energy sources and increasing their efficiency with new technology.
concerning the strategic energy review: it is at the start of the process.
one of the measures that i have promised to my colleagues and also here in parliament is a communication on the financing of low-carbon energy sources, but this is not the only one.
i would not be very happy to over-develop the control mechanisms within the different companies, so i believe the compromise that has been developed in the council would be a basis that could be applicable both to gas and electricity and could open the way to speedier resolution of the third energy package, because it contains a lot of new improvements both for consumers and concerning transparency.
it would be a pity to postpone, for purely ideological reasons, this package, which is very important and much needed for the development of our energy independence.
− mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, and interpreters who are staying this late on such an interesting day as today with the european council discussing georgia, i hope you will have a little time and energy to focus on another report which is, despite its technicality, quite important for all of us.
the environment that surrounds us all the time is extremely important in shaping attitudes, behaviors, attitudes to problems.
so marketing and advertising have to create an environment for social understanding, for social perspective.
the single regulation would also ensure harmonisation of efforts to produce hydrogen fuel in an energy-efficient manner so that the overall environmental balance of the introduction of hydrogen as a fuel in motor vehicles is positive.
the approval will accelerate the deployment of this environmentally friendly vehicle propulsion technology, which in turn will allow the environmental benefits of using hydrogen-powered vehicles to be delivered sooner.
the protection of the marine and coastal environment is essential because it is of the utmost importance.
we must return to the question of establishing a directive to implement minimum requirements in accordance with the international convention on oil pollution.
we did it because our main goal should be to secure sustainable growth and job creation, to ensure predictability and long-term planning for families and businesses.
this will also stimulate other sectoral policies - environment, tourism, small and medium-sized businesses, and education.
the increased uncertainty in terms of possible adverse environmental impacts, terrorist acts, deliberate accidents and accidents multiplies the risks faced by shipping.
in my country, in recent years alone, there have been several incidents involving human losses, material and environmental damage.
mr president, commissioner, in the context of rising energy prices, it is particularly important to ensure greater transparency in the formation of prices.
it is necessary to lay down the general rules for the establishment of a single european energy market.
this will create greater certainty for new investments in energy and in electricity and gas transmission networks.
the third energy package should be adopted as soon as possible and the role of the commission and the council is particularly important in this respect.
it strengthens the rights and independence of energy regulators and harmonises their actions through the newly created agency.
it is also necessary to pay particular attention to the concept of energy poverty and to the national definition of that concept, including by ensuring through the public service mechanism of general interest a minimum winter energy supply to people below the poverty line.
i believe that the problem of high energy prices could also be contained with adequate fiscal policies aimed at stimulating energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and environmentally friendly products.
and we will be very interested to see the proposal that commissioner piebalgs is talking about on the energy efficiency issue.
the european commission has so far done nothing apart from signing a general agreement of cooperation in the energy field.
the programme is extremely timely due to the emerging shortage of willingness to participate in doctoral programmes in many countries, as well as the changed environment for obtaining and pursuing higher education.
we should try to learn from every conflict situation and turn it into energy for the future.
that is why it is very important to have a clear strategy that ensures that every step forward in cooperation on economic, energy, foreign policy issues and challenges is followed by a step forward in respect for human rights and democratic reforms in russia.
i would like to point out that i and my colleagues believe that it is important to achieve a result in the climate and energy negotiations in order for europe to be a leader in the negotiations for an international agreement.
at the same time, however, i would like to express my regret at the lack of progress on one of the very important issues for the countries of central and eastern europe, namely the fair recognition of their efforts in the period from the signing of the kyoto protocol to date to reduce emissions.
some have long-term agreements, so a gradual introduction of these allowances in countries where the market is not sufficiently integrated into the emissions trading system would be a good solution.
i welcome the search for a solution to carbon leakage and believe that timely information from the commission on this issue will help to find solutions that protect the industry of countries that are in competition with neighbouring countries outside the european union.
the long-term sustainability of national and european policies for the use of energy from renewable sources and the long-term sustainability of investments are key factors for the sustainable development of the green energy market and the achievement of the 2020 targets in a cost-effective manner.
whether this will be tariff schemes, investment grants and others depends on the extent to which alternative sources are developed and used and it should be applied without distorting competition between the different market players in the energy sector.
such a comprehensive strategy has the potential to reduce emissions and increase energy security, which is a key prerequisite for an efficient economy and for citizens' comfort.
climate change is happening at a faster rate than predicted.
if the european union is to lead the un meeting in copenhagen in 2009 to reach a global agreement on a real fight against climate change after 2012, it must actually reduce greenhouse gas emissions within the european union.
the new member states still rely heavily on coal as a primary energy source.
the transition to alternative energy sources is slower in these countries and therefore stringent emission reduction measures could have undesirable social effects.
global processes related to climate change need to be addressed in the long term, but with concrete action by all players in the global economy.
it is therefore necessary to give the industry a chance to develop intelligently in line with our objectives; • the mandatory introduction of alternatives, but without negative effects on the environment; ensuring the security of the use of nuclear energy, which must also be given a chance; i say this also as the representative of bulgaria, which has its contribution to this process; • investing in education and science for sustainable development - without which there can be no effective fight against climate change, as they provide adequate individual and organisational preparation;
i would like to express my reasons for supporting the report on 'women in the balkans' prepared by my colleague mrs gurmai and congratulate her on it.
the sustainability and future of our coastal areas is not self-evident, environmental degradation and wrong planning cause severe harm to coastal regions.
we must avoid the excessive construction of housing and hotels and must ensure that any such construction goes hand in hand with an improvement to the infrastructure, in particular the sewage and waste management systems.
one thing that becomes obvious is that we must prevent any environmental pollution.
i thus call upon all member states to ensure that such facilities match the latest available technologies and do not cause any environmental danger to the fragile ecosystems of our coastal regions.
− madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr turmes, the shadow rapporteurs, and all those people who have been fighting for renewable energy.
i still remember the debate on renewable energy, heating and cooling and all the issues we discussed.
the binding nature of the target will mean measures and support schemes for member states using renewable energy will be predictable and long term.
firstly we should invest strongly in energy efficiency because it also helps achieve renewable targets.
the worst thing that could happen is that we hamper development of some particular technology, for example, solar energy, that today is more costly compared with wind technology.
i should mention one investment by a czech company in wind energy in romania.
on transport i am more positive than the rapporteur because i believe it is very important that we address the sustainability criteria.
we have sustainability criteria concerning greenhouse gases.
i believe even this part of the directive is a huge success because it is the first time ever that sustainability criteria are defined and in a form that will be implemented.
i believe that the transport sector needs renewable energy sources, not only heating and cooling and electricity.
i am convinced that we will have not only 20% of renewable energy in consumption in 2020, but much much more.
in order to achieve the objectives of the renewable energy directive, it is necessary to establish a legislative framework to ensure long-term investment solutions.
the forecasted demand for energy from renewable sources and biofuels opens up opportunities, including, for example, providing risk capital to smes to bring new technologies to the market.
financial institutions have a key role to play even in the current period of difficulty in structuring and trading instruments for financing renewable energy, energy efficiency and other projects.
this can be achieved by influencing policies to promote renewable energy applications through a regulatory framework with a long-term vision at community and national level and with a focus on the role of local and regional authorities.
the fact is that we have to find two balances: between the production of energy from all possible sources, including renewable and alternative sources, between the production and consumption of energy and the protection of the environment.
it is important to put in place cost-effective policies and measures to minimise the burden on energy consumers and society.
however, support for the directive is also support for the traditionally used energy production technologies when they are safe, sustainable and secure, which is important, for example, for nuclear energy sources.
so i want to draw attention again to the problem of the closed nuclear reactors of the bulgarian power plant, which must receive sufficient equivalent compensation so that the country can continue to participate effectively... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission and the presidency, let me begin by expressing my support for the agreement reached in the european council and the trilogue on the 'energy and climate change' package.
it reaffirms the european union's role as a leading force in the fight against climate change.
in the field of emissions trading, the agreement reached on solidarity with the new member states of central and eastern europe and on taking account of their efforts in the post-1990 period is a testament to the viability of the european values that have made europe an attractive force for many peoples.
on the subject of carbon capture and storage, i would ask the european commission to supplement the agreement reached on the use of 300 million tonnes of carbon allowances with proposals for co-financing from the budgetary balance for 2008 and for favourable loans from the european investment bank.
i hope, madam president, that the climate package will become the basis for future positive changes both in terms of climate and in terms of economic development in countries like my own bulgaria and other countries in central and eastern europe.
i join in the congratulations on the well-done job from the rapporteurs, the negotiators and the many people who were in the shadows and who helped us to have the final discussion of the 'energy and climate' package today.
there is no doubt that this package affects not only the energy sector of the european union, but also the whole of industry and transport, which must become increasingly low-carbon, and the time for this is shrinking.
− mr president, on 18 june and 9 july 2008, the european parliament adopted at first reading the legislative resolutions on the directives and regulations of the third energy package.
on that basis, the energy package contributes greatly to the eu member states’ security of energy supply.
its adoption will also be a major contribution to the efforts to implement the ambitious legislative package on energy and climate change, which i am confident parliament will adopt tomorrow.
we would also appreciate detailed information on what steps the council, and in particular the czech presidency, envisages for the continuation and timely conclusion of the legislative process on the third energy package.
after the political agreement of 10 october, the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy proposed in a letter of 7 november to hold the first meeting in the form of an informal trialogue before the end of this year.
it has not, however, addressed the issues raised by the european parliament at first reading, such as the greater role of the regulatory agency, protection of consumers, energy poverty etc.
the european parliament, and we in the pse group in particular, insist on issues such as consumer rights and energy poverty which we would like to see reflected in the final document.
i would like to assure you that we will also be ready to find a compromise and try to find a solution for both packages, but this should of course be a process that will lead to a more competitive market, to more transparency, to viability of all the stakeholders, allowing them to have their say in a future energy market.
i think this would be a good solution for a real third energy package that will go beyond the second one and that will create the basis for a truly functioning competitive market.
human life on the roads is no less important than the environmental standards we impose on member states.
we think it is natural for the commission to sanction governments that have not dealt with waste, working time or the environment.
potentially low real gdp growth for several years in a future period would prove to be an additional destabilising factor for fiscal sustainability.
unfortunately, under priority 1b, which concerns sustainable development, cohesion for growth and employment, there will not be enough funds to tackle large and priority projects of the member states.
there is something good about the proposal to revise the multiannual financial framework, which offers an additional growth resource allocated in 2009-10. the purpose of achieving the low-carbon energy targets is good, but it is hardly decisive.
but at the same time it will create a common environment and a prerequisite for a common quality base and efficiency in the training of specialists.
it aims to simplify the economic environment at community level, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises.