the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the export and import of dangerous chemicals, enriched with the compromise joint amendments by almost all the parliamentary groups, will present a set of adequate and much-needed rules which will most likely provide protection of public health and of the environment at a high level.
the serious problems caused by unscrupulous international merchants of toxic substances are well known and feared, and it is very much hoped that the implementation of the commission’s proposal will assist in helping developing nations to counter the serious hazards to the well-being of their citizens and to our environment.
on the environment and climate change front, there are positive elements in the greenhouse gas reduction target, more positive than in the us and other countries, but if development in each country is not fully linked to environmental protection then the results will be sporadic.
it is also possible to promote the fragmentation of public energy, electricity and gas supplies on the one hand and to say that the public interest and the objective of energy efficiency are served, and at low prices, on the other hand, when in practice the opposite is true.
an eu-wide harmonisation of national statistics on the sale and use of plant protection products and the proper use of such statistics would undoubtedly greatly enhance the preparation of accurate impact assessments on the use of such products in the environment and on human health, and thus enable the taking of corrective measures.
we find the great majority of these amendments, as approved almost unanimously by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, useful and necessary and we will support it.
the atmosphere in cyprus is full of renewed hope, but one thing is threatening to destroy the euphoric climate.
biodiversity is essential in order to safeguard the survival of the earth’s ecosystems and to maintain an invaluable genetic pool of distinctive species-specific characteristics.
this parliament has reiterated its concern on biodiversity loss through its relevant resolution of 22 may 2007, but one of the main obstacles to halting biodiversity loss is, i am afraid to say, the lack of effective action by both the commission and the council, both of which give the impression that they care about the matter largely only in theory and that, in practice, they suffer from lack of will and determination in making sure that, in real terms, there is full implementation of relevant directives and that both international and internal commitments are fulfilled.
let us hope that, even at this late stage, the commission and council will act decisively and constructively in helping, partly through their firm stance at the forthcoming conference in bonn, to protect biodiversity effectively.
our environment is suffering under the insults inflicted as a result of an ever-increasing world population and man’s uncontrolled appetite for materialistic consumption.
the climate is changing, biodiversity is suffering and natural resources are diminishing.
consequently, i fully support the idea of an eu environmental taxation system, which will inevitably have to be uniform amongst the member states.
at the same time, an effectively revised carbon emissions trading scheme will, i am sure, help to improve matters significantly.
civil conflict, guerrilla warfare, military coups, religious and ethnic divisions, combined with a hostile, semi-desert environment and a problematic regional neighbourhood, have led to almost continuous unrest in the country.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the proper management of deep-sea fish stocks is essential in order to promote the sustainability of the use of the seas and safeguard the conservation of marine ecosystems.
the necessity of promoting more environmentally friendly catching methods, which do not harm the environment and ecological biodiversity, was also mentioned.
unfortunately, subsequent to such an agreement amendments were tabled on behalf of the ppe-de and pse groups which, if voted for, will mean that the whole compromise package collapses and the matter will go to conciliation, with inevitable further delay in the adoption of measures to protect public health and the environment from continuing contamination by mercury.
much of the dismantling of ships as presently done can rightly be characterised by many as criminal, both with reference to human health and also with reference to the environment.
most such dismantling, as we all know, takes place on beaches and river banks on the indian subcontinent with no or minimal concern for the most basic rules of protection of humans and of the environment from contamination by a variety of toxic substances, including numerous carcinogenic agents.
there is no doubt that establishing the presence of global warming and its causation is a very complicated business.
the usa, china and india, are doing the least about combating global warming.
madam president, we all know that today there is a new climate in cyprus.
animal health is important, not just because it is closely linked to human health and environmental biodiversity balance but also because it has a huge farming trade and economic significance, not to mention the social and sports importance of animals, so it would not be an exaggeration to say that animal health is almost synonymous with human health and well-being.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
carbon-14 dating revealed that the cold-water coral matrix taken as by-catch in this fishery was at least 4550 years old.
a lot will depend now on the success of the new projects proposed, which must be visible and tangible to ordinary citizens on both sides of the mediterranean, and affect and attract the interest of the private sector: projects dealing with topics such as civil protection, the effects of climate change, drought and the lack of water, forest fires, the de-pollution of the mediterranean sea, and the development of technology to make the best use of solar energy for the benefit of both sides of the mediterranean.
mr president, water pollution takes place in rivers, in lakes and in the ground, but it can also take place during transportation.
i would like to ask the commissioner to make sure that such transportation will be totally safe and devoid of any pollution by aromatic hydrocarbons, which, as we all know, can cause serious damage to both humans and animals.
the common denominator of the energy market proposals, madam president, is the restructuring of the energy market to the benefit of private sector companies and the weakening of public energy suppliers, who will, however, remain the main cost bearers.
in my country, where the energy market is controlled by public providers for the benefit of the citizens, this would have adverse consequences.
the european union calls for the basis of the price pyramid for all other goods to be left to capital, since energy largely determines the cost of the production process which will be passed on incrementally to the consumer.
in our age of ever-increasing energy demand and ever-rising oil prices, leaving the energy market at the mercy of private energy giants would be disastrous, with the potential for cartel formation.
we have the technology today to bring gas, to bring energy, to areas that need it, and millions of german citizens need this gas and they need it urgently.
it is unethical to use environmental concerns in order to achieve political objectives and, for that reason, i will vote against it.
− mr president, bangladesh is one of the poorest countries on the planet and one whose physical integrity has an expiry date since, if the curse of global warming is not stopped, much of the country will be submerged under the sea by 2050. the state of emergency, with all its anti-democratic manifestations – a state which was declared by the caretaker government set up in january 2007 amid violence in the run-up to the election – should have been lifted by now.
in addition, the country’s armed forces must terminate their involvement in the political processes of the country and the forthcoming elections must be held in a climate of non-militarised political tranquility.
many accidents, including ecological disasters, could have been prevented if the right shelter had been provided at the right time.
the european union's efforts to create a safe environment for people and the marine ecosystem must therefore apply to everyone, not just to european union vessels, so that there is no unfair competition to the detriment of european shipping.
the eu should be, and is, at the forefront of the fight to save our environment, and the series of pieces of legislation aiming at combating climate change which are currently being debated in parliament are very welcome proof of this.
as always, some compromises have to be made and this has been the case also with the corbey report on monitoring and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from fuels.
it is a major setback, and i wonder whether this legislation is about saving the environment or saving the car manufacturers.
i have the impression that on this occasion the environmentalists, not excluding commissioner dimas, have put up a fight to save the environment but they have lost to the major car manufacturers.
but i think that the thorough work on the commission proposal, which was extremely thorough, the work of the rapporteurs and committees, and the work of the council in the various energy and environment formations, meant that everything was coming together to reach an agreement.
the commission has made complex proposals because the situation is complex, the situation of the member states is complex, the situation of our industries and our social climate is complex, but i believe that we have all the means to get to this first stage of the climate-energy package.
by adopting this compromise agreement the european union will be demonstrating that with sufficient political will it is possible to adopt the concrete measures necessary to combat climate change and that it is possible to do so at reasonable cost.
and of course the consumers will pay smaller fuel bills and the environment will benefit from this production of cleaner cars.
auctioning is very important, it is the best way of allocating allowances, it works according to the polluter pays principle, it does not permit the creation of windfall profits and it will generate funds which are needed in the fight against climate change and for other good causes.
are you against these flexible mechanisms, against making investments in developing countries, transferring technology there, and reducing emissions and of course getting the credit for them?
we have to carry them out here, in the european union, domestically, because it is better for our economies, it is better for adjusting to the low-carbon needs of the future and it will give our business and industry a first-mover advantage.
it will be an incentive for developing new technologies, energy efficiency and promoting renewable sources of energy.
if there is an electricity price increase, if there are energy poor, you can rebate part of the increase of the electricity price.
let me finish my intervention by expressing my sincere thanks to the european parliament, the presidency and the council for the excellent cooperation on the package and the related proposals on carbon dioxide and cars and the fuel quality directive.
by adopting this package you will ensure that the european union has the concrete measures to deliver on its reduction commitments and will be reconfirming europe’s leadership on climate change at a crucial juncture for the international negotiations.
the larger the majority in favour of these measures, the stronger the signal we will send to our international partners about our determination to address climate change, and the more effective it will be in convincing them to follow our example.
commission statements on the climate and energy package emission trading – doyle report commission declaration ad article 10(3) of the revised ets directive between 2013 and 2016, member states may also use revenues generated from the auctioning of allowances to support the construction of highly efficient power plants, including new energy power plants that are ccs-ready.
for new installations exceeding the degree of efficiency of a power plant according to annex 1 to the commission decision of 21 december 2006 (2007/74/ec) ‘energy penalty’ is the term used to express the fact that a plant applying co2 capture or mineralisation uses some of its energy for those processes, and so needs more energy than a plant of equivalent output without capture/mineralisation.
commission declaration ad article 10a(4a) on the modification of community guidelines on state aid for environmental protection member states may deem it necessary to compensate temporarily certain installations from co2 costs passed on in electricity prices if the co2 costs might otherwise expose them to the risk of carbon leakage.
in the absence of an international agreement, the commission undertakes to modify after consulting member states the community guidelines on state aid for environmental protection by the end of 2010 to establish detailed provision under which member state may grant state aid for such support.
carbon capture & storage – davies report statement by the commission on latest developments in deployment of ccs technologies from 2010 the commission will regularly report on latest developments in deployment of ccs technologies within its activities related to running the network of ccs demonstration projects.
the published version of the opinions will, however, display no information whose confidentiality is warranted under the exceptions to public access to information under regulations (ec) nos 1049/2001 and 1367/2006 concerning respectively public access to european parliament, council and commission documents (oj l 145, p. 43) and the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters to community institutions and bodies (oj l 264, p. 13).
statement by the commission on whether carbon dioxide should be a named substance with suitable thresholds in a revised seveso directive co2 is a common substance and currently not classified as dangerous.
in that case, the commission would also propose changes to annex iii to directive 2004/35/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 april 2004 on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage (environmental liability directive) as appropriate to ensure that all seveso installations handling supercritical co2 are covered under the environmental liability directive.
statement by the commission on mineral sequestration of co2 mineral sequestration of co2 (the fixation of co2 in the form of inorganic carbonates) is a potential climate abatement technology which could in principle be used by the same categories of industrial installation as can use geological storage of co2.
in addition to the energy penalty‘energy penalty’ is the term used to express the fact that a plant applying co2 capture or mineralisation uses some of its energy for those processes, and so needs more energy than a plant of equivalent output without capture/mineralisation.
associated with capturing co2, there is currently a substantial energy penalty associated with the mineral carbonation process itself, which will require to be addressed before commercial implementation can be envisaged.
as with geological storage, the controls required to ensure the environmental safety of the technology would also have to be established.
in the light of these considerations, the commission will follow closely the technical progress with mineral sequestration, with a view to developing an enabling legal framework to allow for environmentally-safe mineral sequestration and its recognition under the emissions trading system, when the technology has reached an appropriate state of development.
co2 & cars – sacconi report the commission confirms that in 2009 it intends to propose a revision of directive 1999/94/ec relating to the availability of consumer information on fuel economy and co2 emissions in respect of the marketing of new passenger cars.
this is to ensure that consumers receive appropriate information about the co2 emissions of new passenger cars.
the commission will by 2010 review directive 2007/46/ec so that the presence of innovative technologies (‘eco-innovations’) in a vehicle and their impact on the vehicle's specific emissions of co2 can be communicated to the member state authorities responsible for monitoring and reporting in accordance with the regulation.
promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources – turmes report commission declaration relating to article 2(b) the commission is of the view that for the purposes of this directive, the term ‘industrial and municipal waste’ may include waste denominated as ‘commercial waste’.
commission declaration relating to article 20(6)(d), (7) and (8) the commission acknowledges that some member states already in 2005 have achieved a high share of renewable energy at national level.
when establishing the reports referred to in article 20(6)(d), (7) and (8), the commission will, as part of its assessment of the best cost-benefit basis, take due account of marginal costs of increasing the share of renewable energies and will include, as appropriate, adequate solutions also for such member states in any proposal put forward in accordance with the above mentioned article of the directive.
the guidelines will provide for corrections to seasonal performance factor (spf) values used to assess the inclusion of heat pumps not driven by electricity to take account of the fact that the primary energy needs of such heat pumps are not affected by the efficiency of the power system.
in preparing these guidelines the commission will also evaluate the feasibility of providing for a methodology under which the spf value used to assess the inclusion of any given heat pump is based on average eu climate conditions.
the european parliament and the council, in an effort to improve and extend the operation of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system and to achieve the eu's 20% emissions reduction targets by 2020, propose an amendment to directive 2003/87/ec.
although we voted in favour of these amendments, which set higher targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (a measure which was also a key objective of our gue/ngl group), we would like to express our opposition to the philosophy of commercialising greenhouse gas emission allowances.
the directive in question, we dare say, achieves only a minimal reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and is a measure that favours the developed countries at the expense of the least developed and developing countries.
finally, the application of some of the proposed flexible mechanisms helps monopolies (which are also the main culprits of climate change) to increase their profitability rather than radically solve the problem.
in this connection, i wish to take the opportunity to ask the commission and the council a very straight question: do they agree with – and would they support – a move to allow homosexual couples to have the right to adopt children in the same way as heterosexual couples, or would they consider that the right of an adopted child to be placed in a heterosexual family environment is of paramount importance and, therefore, that adoptions by homosexual couples should not be considered desirable and should not be allowed by law in the eu?
it is also proof that europe, by creating a safer legal environment, is also protecting the most vulnerable among them.
amongst other things, it is responsible for supplying eu member states with a large percentage of their energy needs.