in particular, reducing emissions in the automotive industry, while maintaining a realistic view of a sector which is one of the best in europe and is also one of the key employers, as i said before, providing more than two and a quarter million jobs and millions more in related sectors, was a really tough nut to crack, in my view.
mr president, i welcome the fact that we have given the green light to a modern framework for the further development of the automotive industry in europe and that we have voted for targets which are realistic, which take account of both the rise in oil prices and our high ambitions in terms of safety and environmental protection and are still bearable in terms of european competitiveness.
increasing demands for ever safer car designs and powerful engines that will, however, emit a third less greenhouse gases, these are the goals that are increasing both the price and the operation today, and we know that they alone do not provide much incentive for the mainly middle and less well-off classes to change their fleet more often.
ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the fact that the slovenian presidency wants to address the threats of climate change and a secure and sustainable energy policy.
we have a chance to finally stop draining the citizens of money through the immoral trading of emissions permits, which are nothing more than a pardon for the biggest polluters.
ladies and gentlemen, according to the scientific evidence, nuclear energy is the one that produces no co2 and minimizes the worsening of climate change.
it's also the cheapest low-carbon technology, it's reliable and it's safe.
i am convinced that if we are to act in the interests of the citizens of the union and tackle climate change, we should invest in research, development and education in the field of nuclear energy.
as a rule, there is a lack of stronger political dialogue, the level of trade between them is very low, and modern and efficient transport and energy infrastructures are almost everywhere lacking.
strengthen regional cooperation in the fields of transport, energy and environment.
biofuels do not solve the energy crisis, but they do cause food price increases, water supply problems, and the much-hated increase in co2 concentrations due to deforestation.
scientific evidence shows that nuclear power produces no co2 and minimizes the worsening of climate change.
madam president, in the debate over so-called climate change, we take for granted a few disputable prerequisites.
firstly, climate changes are real and dominantly caused by people.
there are no other groups of scientists with different opinions on global climate change.
there are other groups of scientists who offer different positions on climate change and its causes.
secondly, there is no evidence that mankind is dominantly causing climate changes.
thirdly, climate change has become a fashionable political tool for manipulating people.
fourthly, the conference in bali proved that there is no widespread support for excessive and extremely expensive measures for handling climate change.
sixthly, ambitious plans for the reduction of greenhouse gases will harm developing countries, which will lead to deeper differences between the rich and the poor.
nothing substantial has happened with patent legislation and our entire innovation environment is suffering from low momentum.
why can't citizens freely decide whether they want to strip their governments of their veto power on migration, energy, transportation, and even the control of the european central bank?
mr. chairman, i believe that humanity has an effective role to play in reducing its negative impact on the climate of this planet.
the eu and the world need to be involved in this process of climate change mitigation.
we must therefore also look for more effective instruments in our development policy and target aid to developing countries so that they too can adapt effectively to the impact of climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
mr president, i welcome the report on the action plan for energy efficiency.
it will also ensure less dependence on energy supplies from the east.
however, the emissions trading system is controversial.
it is also necessary to promote the energy efficiency of new buildings.
the increase in energy consumption is still greater each year than the savings achieved by the deployment of energy-saving technologies.
the principle of public-private partnership will support the research into energy-efficient technologies in practice and in line with the lisbon strategy.
the obligation to provide information on the energy performance of appliances on labels should not be a bureaucratic burden for manufacturers and should not contain misleading information for consumers.
it is a great example of how we can simplify bureaucracy and improve the legal environment for businesses and citizens in an enlarged union.
the rapporteur is the committee on industry, research and energy.
the european union, with its 500 million citizens and consumers, is becoming a major player in global trade, environmental and technical rules and standards.
cohesion policy will have to deal with new phenomena such as the ageing and dying of europe's population, the instability of energy supplies and the deterioration of the environment.
i believe that the opening of the european union's permanent representation provides the basis for further activation and expansion of relations with the european union in such mutually beneficial areas as energy, transport, transit, but also environmental protection.
the second positive point, which i think is important, is the ongoing expert meeting in brussels last june, which was mainly about energy issues, and the planned expert talks, which will cover both transport corridors and environmental protection.
but can you imagine it without the introduction of a major environmental tax on road freight or a major rail preference?
and creating an environment of creativity and real academic and entrepreneurial freedom, along with adequate reward for the results of outstanding scientists.
i expect the eti to build a global reputation and provide an attractive environment for the best talent from around the world.
i think that without this we cannot be realistic about a strategy for sustainable transport policy.
if we want, and i very much expect, to achieve its ecological operation.
its review must not be an excuse against a sustainable transport strategy.
ladies and gentlemen, i think that at tomorrow's summit, the heads of state should wake up and admit that reducing european co2 emissions by a fifth and increasing renewable energy by a fifth in 12 years is a utopia.
if we restrict european industry further, we will threaten the competitiveness of businesses and jobs and we will drive investment away to countries that do not put climate barriers in their way.
second, instead of promoting the nonsense that crowds of climate-driven refugees are pouring into europe from africa and asia, let us reflect on our policies that have made europe a destination for poor migration, not a destination for brain migration.
i believe we should focus on innovation that reduces the energy intensity of manufacturing.
one of these challenges is over-reliance on imported energy resources, and it's also climate change.
i believe that the key, or at least one of the keys, to solving this problem is savings, new, more energy-efficient technologies and, of course, diversification of energy sources.
i would, however, urge the commission and the council to devote more attention than has been done so far to the question of the use of nuclear energy.
energy that's safe, clean, energy that reduces our dependence on imports.
and speaking of competitiveness, look at the direction the united states, russia, china, india are going, and even from our research perspective, we should be doing nuclear energy research much more than we are doing now.
mr. chairman, i'd like to comment on mr. tabajdi's report on sustainable agriculture and biogas.
although i did not support this report, i would like to highlight the positive part of it, which is the separation of waste, especially in urban areas, and the use of biogas as a bio-component.
i therefore consider it very important to support municipalities in particular in expanding the collection of municipal solid waste, the separation of the bio-component and their recycling, and to create specific financial instruments, or to make it easier to use structural assistance from european union funds.
there is no doubt that the czech republic is striving for a european agriculture that is dynamic and focused on the sustainable development of the agri-food sector, with food and energy security as its priority.
−first of all, allow me, as chair of the committee on the environment and public health, to congratulate the commissioner on her election and appointment to the commission today.
i welcome the fact that the commission has put forward a proposal which responds consistently to the changes of the last five years, reflects the conclusion of accession agreements in the context of the enlargement of the european union in 2004, namely the aforementioned agreement with, for example, estonia, and the extension of coal definitions, and focuses in particular on the protection of jobs, the efficient use of materials, energy resources in processing and production, etc.
the outcome of the vote in the itre committee, which adopted all the meaningful proposals, thus reflects a good preparation and a reasonable approach to further investment in science and research in the fields of coal and steel, two indispensable energy and manufacturing commodities today.
i would simply ask my colleagues to reject unequivocally the proposals of certain groups which seek to downplay the importance of coal and steel and conventional energy sources in general, and the future of this fund which has proved to be indispensable in the field of research funding.
coal and steel are among the most important energy and production commodities that have developed significantly in recent years, so it is important that the proposal takes into account, for example, the geographical distribution of deposits, as this will contribute to more efficient use and better energy security throughout the european union.
this cultural heritage must be managed in a sustainable way.
scientific evidence shows that nuclear power produces no co2 and minimizes the worsening of climate change.
it's also the cheapest low-carbon technology, it's reliable, and it's safe.
and while our era seems totally new and totally extraordinary, it's worth saying that there have also been major climate changes in the past, there have been climate cycles, and i think one of the important things to do in dealing with this challenge is to study historical climatology.
i think it's very important to realize that in the past, humans have been able to do quite well with balancing the environment.
chinese influence represents a dangerous example for african states of a totalitarian and yet market-corrupt model with no respect for human beings and human rights, regardless of the environment.
we need to force china to take on co-responsibility for development policy, for reducing poverty, for promoting sustainable growth.
we must insist on our strategy based on a trade policy conditional on respect for human rights and environmental protection.
i am authorised, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to refer a question addressed to both the council and the commission concerning the forthcoming meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity and biosafety in bonn.
i would like to ask whether the european union and the european institutions are aware of their leading role in this area, in the fight against the loss of biodiversity.
i also hope that the commission and the council are aware of the impact of water scarcity in the mediterranean region and the impact of drought, the impact of climate change on biodiversity as such.
the committee would like to know whether special attention will be paid to marine and coastal biodiversity and whether the commission and the council are aware of the importance of involving regional and local authorities, but also business operators, in this issue and in the fight against biodiversity loss.
if we recognize the importance of sustainable forestry and crop production with a special emphasis on sustainable biofuel production, which is becoming a very hot topic.
the production of biofuels, as you know, is part of the climate package that we're discussing, and its sustainable use and sustainable development is a very important issue.
on the other hand, we know that it has a very negative impact on biodiversity.
as many speakers have said, carbon dioxide is a major, if not the major, player in what's called ecological pricing, and it's being presented as the cause of climate change.
i want to point out the fact that there is scientific evidence that carbon dioxide increases in the atmosphere not before the earth warms, but after the warming, which correlates with solar activity, so the warming is more a consequence than a cause.
the main emitter of carbon dioxide after warming is the oceans.
i am not against reducing carbon dioxide emissions from human activities, but i think we have to accept responsibility for pollution that has health and other consequences rather than climate change.
but modern times have also made sport a business and an environment where the same negative influences that we see almost everywhere are permeating - money, corruption, lobbying, racial prejudice and, more recently, various means of support - are damaging the purity of sport and diminishing its positive potential to educate young people and to overcome barriers between nations and races.
– madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs locatelli, for her very thorough and detailed work on this report, which deals with one of the main strategic technologies for our energy future.
faced with challenges such as electricity security, energy dependency and the often discussed mitigation of climate change, the eu needs to boost the development and deployment of cleaner and more efficient energy technologies.
especially when discussing emissions reduction and freight efficiency, some of the requirements of the proposed regulations sound a bit futuristic to us.
and i believe that the interim committee on climate change should be dissolved immediately.
it is no longer acceptable that serious crimes against the environment and public health should still be regarded as a criminal offence in some countries, such as italy and cyprus.
i voted against this report in the final vote and i want to emphasise as chairman of the committee on the environment that it was not because i did not realise the seriousness of the subject or because i wanted to reject or question the rapporteur's work in any way.
please, let's use it against the overly strict and unambiguous conclusions of climate change policy.
after all, we as a species are living in nothing but continuous climate change.
weapons containing depleted uranium pose a huge burden on the environment.
america and europe face a host of much more pressing issues: the fight against terrorism, the security of energy supplies, global warming, afghanistan, and many others.
this is not a good situation and it will affect the political climate before the ratification of the lisbon treaty.
i would like to speak as a member of parliament from a country which, unless it is fully affected by globalisation and global warming, will not have a major fire problem, but i do feel that solidarity between the european nations is important.
mr president, i voted today in favour of the revision of the waste framework directive.
among other things, it allows the czech republic to ban the import of waste as raw material if this is contrary to the national plan.
today, the production of waste is 3.5 tons per person, and the southern country exports up to 90% to landfills.
for the first time, a five-level hierarchy of waste management is being introduced into european law.
prevention comes first, reuse comes second, then recycling, and then burning for energy.
setting targets of 50% recycling rate for municipal waste and 70% recycling rate for industrial waste will probably satisfy few.
from the czech republic's point of view, i consider the provisions on the reclassification of municipal waste incinerators into waste recovery facilities to be highly unsatisfactory.
this would possibly mean massive imports of waste from neighbouring countries, as import of waste for recovery purposes is allowed in the union.
it is difficult to imagine effective control mechanisms that can detect whether imported waste has actually been used or incinerated.
mr president, sustainable development policy has no chance of success unless it has a global dimension.
i want to draw attention to the logging in west africa, which is only 5% of a sustainable economy.
for years, real politicians in virtually every country in the world have watched the avalanche of waste.
unfortunately, even in separate collection, we see a steady increase in materials that are collectively called "mixed waste".
although some of the ideas in the amendments are interesting and we will support them, i cannot accept that waste incineration should be considered as an energy use at the level of renewable energy sources.
we cannot support the change in the classification of municipal waste incineration plants to the same level as clean energy sources.
the data they have provided us are from 2003 to 2004 and the energy market was actually fully opened only in june 2007 and the experience regarding the differences between the new and old member states is not evaluated.
it should also be said that the experience gained from the first two energy packages has not been evaluated.
i am convinced that, in addition to this criticism, which includes the underestimated risks to the energy security of the member states, because when a large amount of assets is thrown on the market without actually being guaranteed that it will not fall into the wrong hands, they are too high, some positive solutions must also be given.
i think that the agency should be given powers to prevent power cuts and the commission should be given the power to declare a price moratorium in the event of an increase in energy prices of more than 30% on an annual average in all the member states.
i strongly support the idea of leaving the power to member states to determine freely the ownership relationships between energy producers and transmission systems.
in the face of rising energy prices and consumption, i believe it is necessary to build more power plants and, in particular, to massively strengthen the transmission networks.
and it is also necessary to promote and promote nuclear as a clean and safe source of energy.
ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur on mr chichester's report, i was one of those who supported the proposal that the commission's original intention of one country, one vote should be maintained in the case of a vote at the energy regulators agency.
the creation of an agency that would not be another bureaucratic debate club without powers was also wanted by most national energy market regulators and the uneven conditions for individual countries would practically render useless the effort to create a respected and functioning agency.
national energy markets have evolved under different conditions and are not yet effectively interconnected, and the agency has a chance to contribute to a real interconnection.
it will have a negative impact on vehicle weight, aerodynamic performance, fuel consumption and thus the environment.
i voted for mrs morgan's report because i agree with the need to ensure the security of gas and electricity supplies, the sustainability of the low-carbon electricity market and global competitiveness.
if we deal with such complex problems as energy cooperation, climate change or security issues in such a way that we shoot at each other from trench positions with all sorts of often unrealizable conditions, practically ultimatums, we will get nowhere.
we should push for a more stable business and political climate in russia, which would include fewer import barriers and create more space for union investors.
the environmental risks posed by the extensive burial of war wrecks and munitions on the seabed and the risky chemical method of cleaning the pipeline before it is put into operation are a concern.
i do not dare to comment on the alternative land route, but i am deeply convinced that the european commission and the council must properly assume their coordination responsibilities and, in the interests of the baltic states and others, consistently require the investor to take full responsibility for any environmental damage and require an independent impact assessment as well as an evaluation of the alternative land route.
unfortunately, we do not yet have a common energy policy and eu standards.
without this protection, there is no guarantee of lasting and sustainable success.
the result is a comprehensive conceptual text that allows us to safely approve the integration of aviation into the greenhouse gas emission allowance system and thus to abolish the current economic advantage of aviation over land transport by the end of 2012. the proposal also saves new companies by providing 15% of allowances for auctions and extends to flights from and to europe.
i'm going to go back to my speech in november and say that to reduce emissions in the atmosphere on earth, it's essential to convince the rest of the world to regulate.
unlike the air rescue service, i personally see no reason why the same rules should not apply to the flights of statesmen and monarchs when it comes to protecting the environment.
the environmental risks posed by the extensive burial of war wrecks and munitions on the seabed and the risky chemical method of cleaning the pipeline before it is put into operation are a concern.
i do not dare to comment on the alternative land route, but i am deeply convinced that the european commission and the council must properly assume their coordination responsibilities and, in the interests of the baltic states and others, consistently require the investor to take full responsibility for any environmental damage and require an independent impact assessment as well as an evaluation of the alternative land route.
unfortunately, we do not yet have a common energy policy and eu standards.
i think the time calls for action and the european voters want us to take action to bring fair prices to the energy market.
speculation now accounts for 30 to 40% of the final price and it would be good to introduce a moratorium on energy prices if the increase is as it is now above 30% per annum.
i would like to say that i think the current situation is that it's not liberalization that will help us, but it will help us to build new capacities, including so much goddamn nuclear energy, that it will help us to invest, to invest massively in new technologies, and this is what can be a big challenge, that in the energy sector, the foundation of a new long technological wave will be created, because in fact, it is innovations that will defeat crises, including the energy crisis.
ladies and gentlemen, i am afraid that once again today we are dealing with the particular problems of the energy market instead of thinking comprehensively about the strategic problems.
do we really know what the real energy needs of the european union countries will be in the coming decades and do we really reflect this in our regulations and directives?
do we really know how we envisage the stability of the european energy system as a whole?
can we say with certainty which countries are actually actively addressing energy needs, and can we point the finger at those black passengers who only import energy and yet shamelessly criticize its producers and exporters?
and that is what may very soon happen to the union in the field of energy.
it is therefore necessary to start promoting research and development and, above all, to address all the components of the energy chain, such as production, transmission, distribution and consumption.
in the area of resources, it is therefore essential to start building new facilities, whether one likes it or not, to replace the existing ones that are outlived and to meet the growing demand for energy.
i believe we need to start talking about an energy mix that doesn't discriminate against any energy source, including nuclear, that respects the geographical and political map of mineral owners, and that is not based on green dreams, but on modern, practical scientific knowledge.
ladies and gentlemen, i am of course in favour of the so-called third way, namely that member states should be left free to determine the ownership relationship between energy producers and transmission systems.
the legislation provides an alternative to full ownership through the ito model and the obligation of national authorities to integrate renewable sources into transmission systems, manage third party access, set charges for network access and impose sanctions for discriminatory behaviour can be positively assessed.
the european network of transmission system operators and the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, is also valuable.
let me conclude by saying a few words about the report on the european energy technology plan.
it is closely linked to the union's energy consumption, to the reduction of co2 emissions, to europe's energy dependency.
however, as the rapporteur notes, little attention is paid to economic production, cogeneration and polygeneration, savings in final consumption and energy efficiency in industry, and the budget for the targets set is very small.
there is also a lack of money for the demonstration phase of technologies such as carbon capture and storage.
it is to be hoped that the great european gestures and words on energy research will be accompanied by adequate budgetary resources.
this can then be reflected in an improved environment, whose transport burden becomes unbearable.
however, these two events open up the possibility for us to engage in a more intensive dialogue and to achieve real results in our talks with our partners in the people's republic of china, both in the field of the environment and in the field of human rights.
france, the czech republic and sweden have jointly prepared the 18-month framework programme for the presidency, and i am pleased that some of its priorities have been set out here, in particular the energy issue, which is really crucial, and also the reform of the common agricultural policy, as it relates to the financial framework after 2013 and therefore to the money and the way we will manage in the future.
the harmonisation of the classification and labelling of dangerous chemicals and mixtures is good news for consumers, as the proposed harmonisation will increase the protection of their health and the environment.
hydrogen makes it possible to store energy and to virtually eliminate a significant proportion of emissions.
a group of buses using this energy source has been operating in several cities in the european union for some time.
ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the assessment of the environment and health plan in the report by mrs ries.
some of its goals, such as suicide prevention and communication strategies on the impact of climate change on human health, are admirable.
the european environment and health action plan is thus unfortunately just another subject of justified criticism for waste of taxpayers' money and unnecessary bureaucracy from brussels.
this proposal resulted in a very lively and interesting discussion in my committee – the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
it became a fiction in the czech environment.
fourthly, the environment is such an important value that the debate about who is responsible for maritime transport in the event of a ship's problems must end and the alibi must be set aside.
sadly, legislation to combat illegal tropical timber harvesting is facing serious obstacles in europe, while 13 million hectares of forest are reportedly lost every year, which of course contributes a lot to the growth of co2 emissions.
i fully support the call for environmental protection requirements to be incorporated into the european union's common commercial policy.
unfortunately, we can no longer prevent or stop climate change, but it is our responsibility to at least slow it down.
a comprehensive energy external policy proposal, including active support for the building of energy infrastructure, needs to be urgently put forward.
ladies and gentlemen, when india became independent in 1947, its 18% literacy rate, its unstable political environment and its level of economic development gave no indication of the problems we would be facing in 60 years' time.
security, energy security and peaceful international cooperation, that's a good sign before the summit.
it is true that the absence of a functioning competitive environment in the telecommunications sector makes the adoption of a new regulatory framework a desirable, if not necessary, step.
mr president, the report just voted on follows on from my own report on consumer confidence in the digital environment, which was published a year ago, and i therefore acknowledge that the rights of end-users and consumers are being significantly strengthened.
ladies and gentlemen, let me express my disappointment at the dispute which did not end yesterday with the commission regarding the legal basis for the approval of this international agreement on the sustainable and legal extraction of tropical timber.
we are opposing the deforestation of tropical forests, but i am afraid that millions of tonnes of tropical timber will continue to be dumped into europe because environmental requirements are not being incorporated into european trade policy.
it's a paradox because we pride ourselves on being the flagship of the world's carbon reduction.
the arctic has seen an increase in commercial and tourist shipping, a growing interest in its mineral wealth, and climate change with negative impacts on indigenous lifestyles and biodiversity.
health is the result of genetic influences and lifestyle and environment.
health is influenced by one's upbringing, habits, diet, exercise, work environment, and home.
each country is finding its own way to provide the best health care for its citizens in this challenging environment.
the debate on the rate and pace of raising environmental, social and other standards and the revision of european regulation is what i see as the key to tackling the economic recession that the european economy will now face.
the crisis and the global economic recession are an opportunity to cultivate more consistently the rules for global markets, not just european ones, with a view to sustainable and ecologically and socially appropriate development.
this is the environment we must create for europeans on a global scale.
otherwise, i welcome the council's agreement on the energy package.
i welcome the proposal to create a global climate change alliance between the european union and the least developed countries and small island developing states.
they say that up to 80 billion dollars is needed to adapt to climate change, because the key, of course, would be to stop deforestation in the tropics.
the alliance is an opportunity to act as a reference and methodological point for the preventive management of the risks of natural hazards posed by climate change to the poorest countries.
there is the proliferation of nuclear weapons, international terrorism, global warming, the unresolved conflicts in the middle east, afghanistan, the global financial crisis, and many other problems.
but this requires dialogue, and dialogue at all levels, from energy policy, to reciprocal investment activities, and of course also to dialogue on human and civil rights and democracy.
clean cars are an important and legitimate objective, but municipalities already have the possibility to take environmental considerations into account in public transport procurement.
this directive does not add any new value to the environment, but is an unnecessary administrative burden for municipalities and regions.
member states have committed to a 20% reduction in emissions and it might be better to leave it to them to decide whether they prefer to invest in insulation or other things.
it's about how to secure sales for the european automotive industry, which we've burdened with demands to reduce emissions.
such a landfill is unnecessary and unnecessary for several reasons: it is contrary to the rules of the free market, it interferes with the subsidiarity of local authorities, which should determine their own priorities, the conditions of the selection procedure already include environmental requirements and very carefully monitor the emissions of vehicles, and fourthly, we will achieve a minimum effect at a very high price, the administrative burden of the town halls will increase and bureaucracy will increase.
this will lead to much greater efficiency and savings in terms of environmental and climate protection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
fourth, the european council is not willing to go back on its own unrealistic and extremely expensive targets concerning climate change.
the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 1 july 2013. i am convinced that this will lead to a reduction in charges and an improvement in the competitive environment.
with global climate change, disasters such as floods, major droughts, hurricanes and fires are expected to become more frequent on our old continent.
i would like to stress that the good and consistent enforcement of environmental legislation is essential for its credibility, for a level playing field and for ensuring that the environmental objectives will be met.
the issue of environmental inspections is, therefore, very important for the work of my committee, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
on 14 november the commission published the communication on environmental inspections in the member states.
this communication reviewed recommendation 2001/331/ec of the european commission, providing minimum criteria for environmental inspections.
it states that there are still large differences in the way environmental inspections are being carried out in the eu.
it states that the scope of the recommendation is inadequate and that it does not include many important activities such as natura 2000 and the control of illegal waste shipping.
my committee noted with concern the conclusions from the commission stating that the full implementation of the environmental legislation in the community cannot be ensured.
this would not only lead to continuing damage to the environment, but also to the distortion of competition within and between the member states.
first, why does the commission only wish to amend the recommendation – why does it not propose a directive on environmental inspections?
second, why has the commission opted instead for attaching environmental inspection requirements to existing directives individually, a process that will take a lot of time?
fourth, why is the commission not prepared to transform impel into an effective eu environmental inspection force?
i would like to thank the commission in advance for its reply and i would like to conclude by emphasising that, in my opinion, the implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation should get the same political attention as the adoption of the legislation in the commission, in the council and in parliament.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community with the european union.
i would remind you that food prices are also rising in the european union and it is clear that the rise in energy prices is directly linked to the increase in profits of the multinational energy companies.
ladies and gentlemen, the climate and energy package we are discussing here today is a compromise.
a compromise between the interests of industry, the needs of the environment and, of course, very important in the context of the current economic crisis, the needs of employment and job protection in europe.
the climate and energy package is also a compromise between the industrialised countries in the european union and also the countries in europe where the share of industry is not as high.
the agreement on the draft regulation on co2 emissions from cars or on the directive on the use of energy from renewable sources is, after all, indicative of this.
this is also the case for energy and climate policy.
it is in our vital interest to adopt the climate and energy package as soon as possible and to play a leading role next year in copenhagen alongside the new us administration.
it is clear that not only passenger cars but also heavy goods vehicles must be equipped with modern systems that guarantee a reduction of both carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxide emissions by 80%, and fine particulate matter by as much as 60%.
a good and balanced compromise was reached on the energy and climate package and a solution was found with the irish government to the problem of ratification of the lisbon treaty in ireland.
the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, which we are discussing, is part of the climate and energy package.
the creation of the entire climate package and the process of negotiating it is most reminiscent of hans christian andersen's fairy tale the emperor's new clothes.
in private conversations, they even calculate the negatives of climate madness and admit how this green bubble will damage their country's economy.
if we want to act in the interests of citizens and ensure sustainable development, we cannot force all industrial production out of the union, control wind and rain, block nuclear power and keep on charging energy prices with endless redundant administration.
which is why we should reject the entire climate package tomorrow.
the proposal for an electronic system for the exchange of information on traffic offences between member states should be taken for granted in an environment where the free movement of persons has been in effect for years.
draft report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i believe that the fact that the climate package is not liked by the more ambitious and the less ambitious gives us proof that the compromise was indeed reached.
the climate package is a realistic compromise, which is also in line with my vision of sustainably managing the planet's resources and promoting the competitiveness of european industry and employment.
i agree that we need to move from poorly designed agrofuels to a policy of sustainable use of energy from biogas and biomass and that we need to encourage innovation in conversion technologies to be as efficient as possible, i.e.
the biomass source should be mainly waste water, organic fractions from households and industry, residues from agriculture, fisheries and forestry.
let me explain why i supported the legislative proposal in the climate package, i.e.
a compromise was reached which preserves the original ambitious environmental objectives, while setting conditions which are neither restrictive nor hostile to industry.
i support the phasing out of free greenhouse gas emission allowances for a wide range of industries.
improvements in engine technology, as well as the use of greener tyres, lights and eco-design, will gradually reduce emissions from 160g co2 per kilometre today to 130g co2 per kilometre by 2015. the regulation will allow small car manufacturers to make small deviations from the targets set.
the positive aspect of the 2009 budget, which has just been adopted, is that it clearly identifies priorities such as support for small and medium-sized enterprises, climate protection and food crisis support for the poorest countries.