our legislative work this year will be largely shaped by the requirements of climate and environmental protection.
as legislators, we have a great responsibility to protect the climate and the environment on the one hand and to safeguard european competitiveness, including our jobs, on the other.
we in the european parliament, in the committee on industry, research and energy, have listed 89 suggestions.
i shall not go into them, but they cover aspects such as road safety, environmental protection, the internal market, world trade, research and innovation and many other subjects.
we are making climate change policy in many other areas, we need it here too, so we need an adaptation here too.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
as the shadow rapporteur for this report in the committee on the environment, i would like to deal only with environmental issues.
but as a member of the committee on industry, i am also firmly convinced that maintaining and increasing the competitiveness of the european automotive industry is closely linked to the question of how climate- and environmentally friendly the vehicles made in europe will be in the future.
but it is puzzling to me that when it comes to climate protection, there are repeated attempts to postpone the introduction of co2 legislation to 2015 from the target date of 2012. this is not good.
we had the climate conference in bali, and europe was very active there.
since 1995, car manufacturers have known that there is a need for research and development in the area of climate-friendly vehicle models.
climate change is certainly not going to wait for us, but we have to act now.
and it's important that we peak our carbon emissions by 2015 and then start reducing.
the lifestyle criticism that mr verheugen has spoken of has long been an intolerable part of the european climate change debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
this was a high-level debate on climate change, innovation and - we have seen this everywhere, especially among our colleagues in the gue - job preservation.
and that balance sometimes seems to be missing when we're hysterical about climate change.
there is no one in the alde group who is greener and more ecological than chris davies.
i am glad that the environment committee has adopted his report by a large majority.
i thank the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for voting in favour of this report by a very large majority, and i hope that many of our colleagues in this house will vote in favour of this report tomorrow.
we want differentiation of charges according to objective criteria, according to different services and according to environmental criteria, and we want a definition of negotiated service levels.
firstly, the reduction of the scope to five million; secondly, the inclusion of airport networks - this is a completely new item -; thirdly, the specification of the tasks of the regulatory authority and also the possibility of delegating tasks to regional structures; fourthly, pre-financing - the commission has not been involved in this, although it is possible according to icao - and finally, the question: what is your position on differentiation of charges according to environmental criteria?
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
it would also be a very questionable understanding of environmental and health protection that we would be exporting if, on the one hand, we were setting milestones for greater safety with the new pesticide authorization currently under way, but on the other hand, we were doing the exact opposite when exporting.
this is indeed the only way to achieve the primary and ambitious objective of a continuous and sustainable reduction in occupational accidents and diseases.
as regards occupational health, i expect the new strategy to be a further step towards creating a healthier working environment across the european union, where the needs of an ageing workforce are met and the most vulnerable groups are fully protected.
the legal complexity is much greater, the growing national financing cultures and legal traditions play a much greater role, and thus the trust of citizens in this environment is often crucial.
there is no impact assessment, although this is a very new proposal, despite the enlargement of the eu to 12 new member states, despite the great differences in the financial culture, in the regulatory environment, in the social differences within the member states.
in view of the major challenges of climate change, it would be urgent to exclude from this proposal mortgage-backed renovation loans, which have nothing to do with consumer credit but are to be valued more like mortgage loans.
the source of energy that comes to us is from the one god, the creator; we are his creation and, hence, i greet you as brothers on this planet, my brothers in spirit and in mankind.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
thirdly, the ecological rights of the child - a subject which has not yet been raised - the right of every child to grow up in an intact environment.
i would therefore ask you to include the environmental rights of children, because children are the citizens of tomorrow.
as regards the data that can be used for climate issues, we pointed out that there are two pilot projects, namely lucas and mars.
in addition to new obligations for industry in the form of environmental regulations, we also need to simplify the industry, cut red tape and apply the principles of better regulation.
only the weight of the vehicle and the co2 emissions are physically related.
we have explicitly advocated an integrated approach to take full account of all the possibilities for reducing co2 emissions.
we want to see individual driving behaviour, the creation of incentives for the use of clean vehicles, the use of biofuels and the promotion of new vehicle technologies, among other things, contribute to reducing these emissions.
in particular, the next three-year cycle of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs should continue along the lines set so far, with a focus on investing in people, modernising labour markets, increasing entrepreneurial potential, providing affordable and reliable energy sources and protecting the environment.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
we want to do everything we can to make progress in the liberalisation of the internal energy market.
we hope that we will also be able to take the necessary steps forward to provide our citizens and businesses with a better, cheaper and more reliable supply of energy.
we have the foundations on which a consensus has already been formed, we have the political agreement in principle of the european union to send a civilian mission to kosovo, we agree that the status quo is not sustainable and that the kosovo issue is a specific problem that cannot be transferred to any other situation in the world.
with the countries of latin america and the caribbean, we will establish cooperation in achieving sustainable development and combating climate change and poverty.
the third challenge is the fight against climate change.
we will also do this by applying the same criteria we use internally to our external counterparts when it comes to burden-sharing in the fight against climate change, when we negotiate with other global partners.
we sometimes hear that all these things are not the real priorities of the european union, that we should be dealing more with domestic problems, but i believe that this is too narrow a view, because how we deal with these four key issues in the future, how the european union ensures its greater role and influence in the global world, is what most depends on ensuring peace and security for our citizens, a sustainable and secure supply of energy to the eu, and also managing the migratory pressures on the european union.
i would like to focus on three priorities: the treaty of lisbon, the package on energy and climate change, and the renewed lisbon strategy.
next week, the commission will adopt the climate change and renewable energy package.
we will have to work hard to have the package adopted by the end of 2008. our package will complement the proposals presented last year on the energy internal market.
a european energy market will give more options and better prices to european citizens, and it is essential to meet the three central challenges which the european union faces in energy: competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
we knew from the very beginning that transforming europe into a low-carbon economy is not an easy task.
we also need to minimise the costs of adaptation for european industry and to address the challenges faced by energy intensive industries.
but do not expect us to compromise on the european interest, which is to lead global efforts to fight climate change, to ensure energy security and to provide a competitive advantage to our economies.
the energy and climate change package should be seen as an opportunity for europe in economic terms.
it is a mistake to set the fight against climate change against the competitiveness of european industries.
the union should lead global efforts to tackle climate change, and european industries should continue to be world leaders.
it is true that our package aims at a more environment-friendly europe, but it will also contribute to a more industry-friendly, a more job-friendly and a more consumer-friendly europe.
as we launch the next lisbon cycle, we need to take ambitious decisions in the spring council on areas such as research, innovation, the business environment, professional skills and the qualification of labour.
the triangular institutional partnership between parliament, the slovenian presidency of the council and the commission will be crucial to our success in 2008. with a ratified treaty, an agreed energy and climate change package, and a delivering lisbon strategy of growth and jobs, we will certainly have in 2009 a more confident and a better prepared europe to face the future.
another is the further development of the internal energy market, the agreement with russia - these are priorities which you can really devote yourself to.
the environmental and energy package will certainly be one of the key challenges in the coming months and also until the end of this year.
during my first statement i highlighted some – because i could not go into detail on all aspects – of the priorities for our work during these six months: the ratification of the lisbon treaty, the new cycle of the lisbon strategy and also our climate and energy package.
the heads of state and government agreed on ambitious targets – a 20% reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases and 20% for renewables.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
the european union was almost synonymous with international efforts to protect the climate, international solidarity, sustainability.
i was even proud of the german federal minister for the environment.
it has become clear to me once again that the european union can win back the consent of its citizens to really good global climate action.
i think that if you do not stick to your proposals on emissions trading, you will be breaking a very important instrument.
i believe that if clean coal continues to dominate, if nuclear power is promoted covertly, if fossil fuels are central and not another transport policy, if efficiency - the priority of priorities, mr piebalgs - is increasingly a shadow existence, then we will not be able to achieve good climate protection.
after all, it was the free market that created this climate problem.
the free market must be regulated in the interests of climate protection.
you know that i am very much attached to the economy, the environment and common policy.
i am a little disappointed, mr dimas, that waste policy, and in particular landfill policy, is not playing a major role here.
we've all learned in the last two years that we have a lot more than just a climate problem.
of course we must be fair to the companies and the environmental associations, and i would emphasize the five priorities you have set out.
the european union should not be so afraid of this climate change issue.
we should use it as an opportunity, as an opportunity for our environment, as an opportunity for industry and as an opportunity especially for future generations.
however, we have many areas of common interest with iran that are not yet fully exploited, the most obvious of these in the energy sector – but there is also more that we could do together on drug trafficking and against terrorism.
we welcome the fact that iran is working with the international atomic energy agency to deal with some of the so-called ‘outstanding issues’.
− mr president, in the current climate i think it is inevitable that discussions about iran focus on the nuclear programme.
nobody has ever denied iran’s right to the use of peaceful nuclear energy, but there was a serious need to rebuild trust and show genuine political will to find a solution.
until we see such political will, there will unfortunately be no possibility of our enhancing our relationship, including launching or relaunching the trade and cooperation agreement talks and talks on energy.
i am confident that parliament shares the same views and that it continues to firmly back high representative solana and the three plus three to achieve a sustainable solution – and a diplomatic solution which, whilst preserving iran’s inalienable right to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, also provides objective guarantees on these activities being exclusively peaceful in nature.
but if it becomes sarkozy's policy to conclude only nuclear energy agreements worldwide without any safeguards, such as npt agreements, then european foreign policy becomes a proliferation risk and does not contribute to containment.
we need to get this case back to the international atomic energy agency and away from the un security council.
i would like to stress that the completion of this long process will ensure that the high quality of the universal service will be maintained for all union citizens and for the business environment.
the directive as it stands, to which the european parliament has made a very important contribution, is, in the view of the european commission, the best legislative framework which, while respecting our international obligations, will lead to a high quality and sustainable postal service in europe.
- i am honoured to be with you again today and to present to the council, as president, an assessment of the outcome of the bali climate change conference.
i am very pleased that the european parliament has been very active and involved in the debate on climate change.
i would also like to express my support for the first interim report on climate change presented to your committee on climate change on monday.
on this basis, negotiations will begin in march or april this year, with the aim of reaching a global and comprehensive agreement on tackling climate change beyond 2012 by the end of next year.
it stresses that the efforts of all developed countries to reduce emissions must be comparable.
this means that the united states will be included in the reduction of emissions.
however, it should be stressed that the plan does not yet provide for quantified commitments as provided for in the kyoto protocol for the period 2008-2012. second, developing countries should contribute to reducing emissions in the context of sustainable development.
the mitigation will also include measures and positive incentives to prevent deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries, which contribute a significant share of global greenhouse gas emissions.
in order to mitigate and adapt to climate change more effectively, it is therefore essential to ensure that developing countries have easier access to environmentally friendly technologies.
this concerns increased financing and investment for climate change mitigation.
we consider the greatest achievement to be the inclusion of all countries, developed and developing, in the collective reduction of emissions.
we expect the bali action plan to move the transfer of climate-friendly technologies to developing countries from a deadlock.
we believe that the end result will be successful if we can maintain the trend that has been present over the last year, with climate change increasingly high on the political agenda.
- the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you for this opportunity to discuss the outcome of the climate change conference held in bali at the end of last year and what is to follow after an agreement has been reached to open negotiations.
now, to come to the results of bali, i would like to start by saying that bali is an undeniable success, as it has agreed to start negotiations with all the major countries to conclude an agreement on climate change for the period after 2012. an agreement to be finalised in 2009 and covering all the key elements that the european union has been working hard to achieve.
in other words, it gives us the basis - and the impetus we urgently need - to start negotiations with a view to an agreement on climate change that is at our level of ambition, that is, an agreement that leads to drastic reductions in global emissions, initially by 2020 and even greater reductions thereafter.
now our goal is to reach agreement on a future framework for climate change at the copenhagen conference of the parties in 2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's proposals on the climate and renewable energy package, adopted last week, do just that and demonstrate that the european union is determined to move forward.
climate change is now a central issue in the political debate, as we can see in the ongoing presidential election campaign.
climate and energy will be among the priority issues on the agenda of this year's g8 meeting under the japanese presidency.
at the moment, there is a lively debate in japan about climate change.
one observation in relation to these parallel processes is that it is clear that the un will remain the main negotiating stage for an agreement on climate change after 2012 and it is where the final agreement should be reached.
we simply cannot afford to have overlapping efforts and waste time at a time when the united nations process is already under way.
finally, i would like to say that the climate and energy package shows our determination to move from words to deeds, while demonstrating that this can be done in a fair and cost-effective way, which will provide opportunities for everyone to benefit.
i think we need to create a lot more awareness for a sustainable debate, and it has shown that we have more than just a climate crisis, but also a resource crisis, but that can also be turned around in a positive way.
i think we need to put sustainability in our vocabulary more than we have in the past to raise awareness.
i have to say, madam president, if we look at the bali conference, we have to say that it was the largest, most expensive and most elaborate climate conference ever, and it really only produced one result, which is that we continue to negotiate.
first, the unfccc has convinced much of the global public of its climate scenarios, but not of the consequences to be drawn from them.
a look at the four remaining serious us presidential candidates makes it pretty clear that there is almost no commitment to a un process on climate policy anywhere.
there are cost-effective alternatives to an international agreement: technology transfer, the protection of tropical forests through a reasonable incentive system, carbon capture and storage or the development of nuclear energy.
in the end, the law of market scarcity will also drive the us and china to save energy and avoid co2.
i must commend commissioner piebalgs for putting himself at the forefront of those who are committed to energy efficiency.
because energy efficiency is actually one of the greatest sources of energy independence.
i would like to give an example from this report: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the climate hysteria is indeed totalitarian in some respects!
it is right to set high climate targets, but to regulate lifestyles in detail everywhere - we really have to ask ourselves if we want to do that.
yes, the network is intended to improve the quality of our citizens' daily lives, to increase the competitiveness of our companies, to extend the reach of our research and education centres and, last but not least, to protect the environment.
it's certainly a space where social events are mirrored in the same way as real life, and i don't think you should be focusing your energy on curbing that for good.
i would like to say that i am not in favour of the european workers facing unemployment because large companies are exploiting the comparative advantages you have so much praised in emerging countries, or the workers in those countries who are exposed to unacceptable working conditions, or - i say this to you as an entrepreneur - the companies which produce in the european union according to the rules and do not want to increase their profits by applying poor environmental and social standards in some third countries.
secondly, although consumer and environmental safety and protection are covered by numerous european directives or other binding standards, the case of the us toy manufacturer martell in the past year has not only shown that, on the one hand, the practice is often unsatisfactory and, on the other hand, the monitoring of the rules at european borders and on the european market is very different and in some cases insufficient.
the legal basis for consumer safety and health, for environmental protection, for the quality of products is being substantially strengthened by this regulation.
i should also mention that the product package is part of the efforts to improve the regulatory environment.
in addition, some of the so-called location advantages may be attractive from a business point of view, but in the long run they have extremely harmful consequences for the environment and are totally unacceptable from a social policy point of view.
i am speaking as rapporteur for the committee on the environment on the brie report and i am concentrating above all on the area of market surveillance.
that was a major concern of us in the environment committee.
this practice is unacceptable because it poses risks to consumers and to health and the environment, but it is also bad for the companies that follow the rules.
the committee on the environment has therefore already called for increased market surveillance in the past, for example in the context of the ecodesign directive.
the committee on the environment, like the imco committee, felt that the transitional periods proposed by the commission were far too long.
the end result will be a more business-friendly environment, especially for smes.
the fight against climate change is also becoming a new objective for the european union - an area in which sweden is already very successful.
your country, mr prime minister, can rightly be proud of its european leadership in the use of renewable energies!
we must take the fight against climate change forward as a united european union, so that we can take a leading role on a global scale.
whether it is energy security, climate change, the further development of the union's northern dimension or the baltic sea strategy, we expect sweden to provide a major impetus.
a strong europe combines economic growth with climate-friendly policies.
the lisbon treaty creates better conditions for more open, effective and dynamic european cooperation, but above all it opens up new opportunities to discuss important issues for the future: climate and energy, jobs and economic growth, demography, migration and the role of the eu on the international stage.
some of the main issues during the swedish presidency will be climate and energy, the hague programme, jobs and economic growth, the baltic sea issues and the eu as a global actor.
climate and energy issues are one of the major societal challenges of our time.
we have a great responsibility to future generations to ensure that we succeed in formulating a policy for long-term sustainable development.
estimates show that the world's total energy demand is not declining but is projected to increase by 50 percent by 2030. the key to tackling climate change, of course, lies in how we deal with this supposedly increased energy demand.
but the climate challenge also requires a new political approach.
we need to dispel the myth that growth is the enemy of the environment.
since 1990, the beginning of the kyoto year, our economy has grown by 44 percent while greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by nine percent.
it has proved open to a development where the environment becomes a lever for both new businesses and new jobs.
i am convinced that we can achieve the goals of the eu's climate and energy package, but this requires the introduction and use of the right tools that drive our societies and our businesses to make the right choices.
the costs of polluting our environment must be high, and the rewards of choosing the zero-carbon solutions interesting.
it is also about how we tackle demographic change and the transnational environmental challenges.
progressive energy and environment policies within the union are a prerequisite for long-term sustainable growth and thus prosperity in europe, but they are also an important factor for our future competitiveness.
with the lisbon strategy for sustainable growth and jobs, the eu has created the means to meet these challenges.
let us seriously complete the single market and create a more innovative business climate in europe.
how do we collectively ensure long-term prosperity in europe through sustainable growth and full employment that will enable europe to compete effectively in the global arena?
i see the swedish presidency in autumn 2009 as an excellent time to start and to carry on the discussion on a future european strategy for sustainable growth and employment also in the next decade.
what if we instead increased the eu's investment in research and development, the fight against organised crime, environmental issues and external relations?
remember that all these newcomers who are positive, expectant and eager to do the right thing are being treated with this positive energy.
nearly a quarter of eu citizens - some 100 million people - are affected by the sensitive environment of the baltic sea.
the world climate is not a european climate debate, but a global climate debate.
i would therefore like to give you some good advice, mr reinfeldt: yes, on the world climate.
i cannot at present assess to what extent we can influence this mainly with swedish environmental legislation.
the year 2007, which is now some time in the past, was christened in climate policy as the year of knowledge about climate change.
when you realize that the debate about global warming and sustainability strategies has been going on for about two decades, you realize how slow a policy pathway is to influence and how difficult it is to actually reverse policies.
when we prepared the lisbon resolution for parliament - and i did so as co-rapporteur with mr lehne - we again had a dispute, not personally but between the political groups, on the question of energy policy and energy strategies.
the resolution now includes a term which does not adequately cover the wide range of ideas on sustainability.
low carbon economy is what is now being offered as a formulaic compromise for this parliament.
i think that this is a conflict between the motto 'keep on as before', which means to continue with the energy industry based on the old coal and nuclear energy mix, and a strategy which we would have liked to have, but which is very hard-line and says that we must reduce our consumption of resources.
we must build an energy strategy on the two pillars of energy efficiency and saving and renewable energy.
i would like to say again that i do not believe that nuclear energy, which is a high-risk energy, or a return to a coal strategy will allow europe to take the lead that is being promised elsewhere in the world.
i also believe, commissioner verheugen, that the guidelines in this area still need to be adjusted, because simply adding security of energy supply and renewable energies is not a change in strategy.
i believe, however, that the guidelines of the lisbon strategy must be changed not only in the environmental field but also in social policy.
it is also not enough, of course, if we really want to measure something like the improvement of the quality of life and the quality of the environment.
i would be very pleased if the commission could respond to these references to environmental and social indicators.
this is particularly concerned with the necessary closure of gaps in the internal market, i will just mention the keyword of the lack of a unified patent law or no internal market in the insurance sector; the labour market is mainly about the keyword 'security through flexibility'; the second part of the report, entitled 'the european union's strategy for the environment', focuses on the implementation of the strategy in the member states.
we have deliberately chosen not to focus on energy and climate this time, partly because this has been the main topic for the past two years and because we have strategically achieved what we wanted to achieve with the resolutions, namely that the commission and the council should deal intensively with the issue.
the crisis in world financial markets, rising energy and food prices, sluggish domestic demand due to wage dumping and social plunder, the expansion of precarious employment - all these are pressing problems that need to be tackled.
and instead of ending the policy of liberalization which has contributed very substantially to price controls on the energy markets, privatization and deregulation are being pursued.
the european union's dependence on external energy resources and the need for a diversified energy supply policy to guarantee energy security are a common interest of the european union and the central asian republics.
however, when it comes to the supply of energy sources, we are talking about two countries in particular, namely turkmenistan and kazakhstan.
uzbekistan and tajikistan, for example, as we have recently learned, have their own energy problems.
kyrgyzstan is an energy-rich country when it comes to water, and we mentioned it deliberately.
in this respect, we are following the proposal of the commission and the local embassies to set up a water and energy academy which will look at the subject together, also in terms of ecology and sustainability.
it is also in the interest of the countries concerned to diversify their energy sources, because we cannot have any interest in further increasing our dependence on russia.
in particular, to reduce energy dependence on russia, an eu strategy for central asia was long overdue.
unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly clear that the eu's external energy policy still lacks a common voice.
however, the eu's bilateral energy agreements with third parties have repeatedly called into question the european union's united position.
but a common external energy policy is in the interest of the european union and its citizens.
the energy supply, which is of vital importance to our citizens, must not, however, be the sole motive for the european union's relations with this region.
we want energy imports, but we also want security, and we want exports of democracy and human rights.
it is nothing less than a package of economic and democratic development and cultural and scientific exchange, but also with a clear priority for environmental protection and civil society development.
i would like to mention briefly a matter which is certainly well known to everyone here: the environmental disaster in the aral sea, which has now become known beyond the region - one of the greatest environmental disasters in the world.
the treaty provisions, such as the objective of full employment, the principle of a sustainable social market economy, the social cross-cutting clause requiring that all legal acts be examined in the future for their social compatibility, and the new protocol on social security, have finally, in my view, broken the neoliberal concrete of the maastricht treaty.
we want to strengthen this now so that this peace process we have inside will give us better decision-making opportunities through the treaty, and so that we can meet the challenges of the future in this world and prevail in this world on issues of energy security, foreign security policy, terrorism and many others.
kosovo’s assembly declared independence last sunday in a climate of dignity.
we wish the serbian politicians calm and hope that they will now devote all their energy to ensuring that serbia can make its way into the eu.
for the policies of the member states in the eu, this actually means sustainability in social security systems, and this is an unpopular cost factor, but it would bring demographic change back on track.
we need a more family-friendly environment in our member states, more childcare facilities, more company day-care centres, better reconciliation between family and work, more women in active working life, more part-time work for parents and safe re-entry after the family phase.
they form a complementary unit when it comes to the goal of a truly sustainable development in europe.
i would like to mention demographic developments, climate protection, depopulation of regions, but also a modern european urban policy, to name just a few.
i believe that investing more in education, research and innovation and their infrastructure is becoming more and more important and also really sustainable.
the european single market concentrated the growth in economic activity on the centres of gravity that attracted further activity, at the expense of the less-favoured regions and the natural environment.
instead of giving real priority to the problems of the most disadvantaged regions and promoting exclusively sustainable development projects, it relies on old-fashioned infrastructure concepts and, consequently, only on economic centres.
this can only be achieved if cohesion policy is really supported by a model of society based on solidarity and by sustainable development patterns that do not come at the expense of the environment.
the guellec report and the outlook for future structural policy: the regional challenges posed by globalisation, demography, climate change, migration - all of this is well described.
first we have to assess the current period, first we have to adapt the instruments more efficiently to new challenges such as climate change and demography, then we can call for a contribution in the budget.
i think it has become clear that on the one hand we are committed to the important european asset of solidarity, on the other hand we are using our instruments - in this case cohesion policy - much more efficiently and concretely in order to achieve truly sustainable development, and thirdly we really need to communicate with citizens from the outset.
a final appeal to my colleagues before the vote: let us be really concrete, not just examine and re-analyze, let us make it a condition that we demand the integrated approach to support from the structural funds and that we also make clear commitments to reduce greenhouse gases.
climate action must be implemented in cities, otherwise all our commitments at european or national level will be worthless.
on the other hand, it is true that we must also have extremely advanced research into new engines and new energies if we are to meet the challenge of sustainable mobility.
i cannot say, as i heard earlier, but everyone was positive that this would be wishful thinking, good intentions, because i would still like to point out what has already been achieved: for example, the classification of trucks into euro categories according to increasingly sophisticated standards, up to euro 5. this classification of trucks has been said to have reduced co2 emissions by 30 to 40%.
i would like to take another example: the european union wants to reduce emissions to 120 g co2/km in the future; this is a goal that is currently mobilizing the entire automotive industry.
because we are, today, really doomed to find the paths of this sustainable mobility.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, and so on.
i would say that it is in spite of these fisheries partnership agreements that a lot of illegal fishing activity is carried out and a lot of private licensing is granted to third countries not belonging to the european union, and it is by virtue of these fisheries partnership agreements that we can control and manage our own fishing fleets so that they fish in a sustainable manner in guinea-bissau and other waters.
i hope and expect that we will see the finishing touches to the most ambitious system in the world to tackle climate change and promote energy security.
we will work hard to try to minimise those likely to come in the closing months of the year, such as the framework directive on consumer contractual rights, the review of the energy taxation directive, and the directives on the conditions of entry and residence of seasonal workers and trainees.
first, promoting sustainable growth and jobs will remain at the heart of our agenda and of the renewed lisbon strategy.
major effort will be put into promoting the transition to a low-emissions and resource-efficient economy.
the copenhagen meeting will be a major rendezvous to reach a global climate change agreement for the period beyond 2012. europe must prepare its ground well and maintain its role as the pioneer on climate change.
work on how to assist with adaptation to the impact of climate change will need to be pursued.
the commission is developing its legislative programme for 2009 from its strategic priorities prosperity, solidarity, freedom, security and a stronger europe in the world , fully in line with our support, and from these priorities for 2009 sustainable growth, jobs in the age of globalisation and a resource-efficient, low-carbon economy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
what many people are experiencing in real terms is less social security, stagnant wages, severe restrictions on workers' rights, rising prices for basic services in local public transport, health, energy and water, education and childcare.
but if we want social, environmental and consumer protection standards, then we must also adopt and implement them!
in addition, the global europe external trade strategy is a pure foreign trade promotion strategy for european companies, which cares little about regional and sustainable economic, social and environmental developments in partner countries.
we will be reforming the budget, we will focus on growth and jobs, and we will have energy and climate change.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on the european institute of innovation and technology (15647/1/2007 - c6-0035/2008 - 2006/0197 (cod)) by reino paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (a6-0041/2008).
mr swoboda has just touched on the subject of energy.
in fact, we should focus on steering europe's major response to climate change through the eit, such as the issue of energy efficiency, etc.
but the challenges and needs of the european union today - from energy to the environment, from competitiveness to enlargement, from a common foreign policy to the migration of peoples - are all strategic issues that require bold and courageous action over a period of time far longer than two or three elections.
global warming and the decline of fossil fuels.
given the importance of energy, it is understandable that many countries in the european union want to protect their companies from competition and do not support the liberalisation of the energy market.
but today, europe's largest energy source is a country that has declared itself an energy superpower and proclaims on its foreign ministry website that energy is an instrument of foreign policy.
in order to avoid the division of the european union into imperialist and imperialist policies and to prevent the manipulation of the member states in the interests of better gas supply conditions, the creation of a common energy policy is indispensable.
(applause) along with the energy commissioner, who has powers similar to the trade commissioner.
the liberalization of the internal energy market is also an indispensable precondition for a common energy policy, as we have a common trading regime.
there are two aspects to this question: how big are we and what is our environment?
sustainable economic development means that economic, ecological and social aspects must be in harmony.
the european agricultural model stands for sustainability and consumer safety and it still does!
they maintain the countryside, which is the basis for tourism, they contribute to energy security, they produce high-quality food and they provide the economic basis for rural areas with their jobs.
we in the committee have supported the continuation of the reform towards more ownership and market orientation, but at the same time we have put more emphasis on the aspects of food safety and social and environmental responsibility - especially in the light of current market developments and the new challenges of climate policy - than we have done in the past.
we voted in committee for the introduction of a new flexible instrument to promote a specific environmental and regional production or specific sectors, known as article 69, but also called for the rapid formulation of new basic safeguards against environmental crises and those that are increasingly expected in the face of climate change and the increasing interconnection of agricultural markets.
we must find new ways of doing things in the interests of sustainability and competitiveness.
the point is that agriculture must of course contribute to climate stabilisation.
i think the rural development policy will need more money in order to meet the new challenges – climate change and the reduction of co2 emissions will be the most important ones.
− there is a sustainability dimension to all the trade agreements that we are pursuing by negotiation and the economic partnership agreements are no exception.
the rural areas in particular provide the best conditions for a full life, for families, integrated into the village communities, integrated into nature and the environment.
it has environmental benefits by reducing the emission of powerful climate-altering gases, such as methane and nitrous oxides.
for this reason, biogas production further enhances the environmental sustainability of agriculture – there has already been a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emission since 1990 – and it also has obvious economic advantages as a useful alternative to natural gas in a situation where we now see that oil prices have exceeded usd 100 per barrel.
implementation of the rural development programmes from the period 2007 to 2013 has only just started but i find that member states’ first programming is very promising and i am confident that biogas-related measures will be among those with the highest uptake in the area when we talk about bio-energy.
measures included in the commission’s recent energy and climate package will give a further boost to biogas production in the coming years.
particularly important is the 20% target for renewable energy.
biogas will also play an important role in delivering the 20% reduction targets for greenhouse gas emission from sectors that are not participating in the emission trading system.
i am convinced that biogas production will be a key element in the european union strategy to combat climate change and to make it possible for us to meet the kyoto targets.
i think that the 20% target for renewable energy already encompasses biogas.
in my view it would also lead to excessive political pressure for a particular type of renewable energy, which could be unfortunate if economic circumstances are later not too favourable for biogas production.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
i have the opinion of the committee on industry responsible for energy policy.
the committee on industry is aware of the positive contribution of biogas not only from manure, as the rapporteur says, but from all organic waste.
the committee on energy has not called for four new directives to be tabled, as the honourable member has done in his draft report.
i share the commissioner's view that we do not need new directives, but that we should give biogas a proper role in the existing renewable energy directives.
i can emphasise what has already been said: biogas can make a significant contribution to achieving our renewable energy targets and to reducing our use of fossil fuels and thus our co2 emissions.
only about 38% of the energy available is used, and over 60% of the energy is blown into the environment as waste heat.
we must go in these two directions: either use waste heat for electricity generation or feed biogas directly into the grid.
this is a good way for biogas to contribute to climate change mitigation.
i think he has succeeded in showing the importance of biogas for a sustainable energy mix of the future.
only in this way can and will biogas technology make a meaningful contribution to energy security, to reducing our dependence on foreign imports, to climate protection and to rural development.
when i think that the pioneers of the biogas plants were farmers who were ridiculed 10, 15, 20 years ago when they tried to get energy out of the manure.
in other words, biogas is in the same category as renewable energy sources such as wind, water, sun, wood, and is indeed a renewable energy source if it is produced from organic waste.
this means that there is always a correspondence between food prices and energy prices, and this is due to the fact that we have an energy input law - at least in germany, but also in some other countries - which allows a better utilization of plant products in the energy sector than in the food sector.
there is agreement that we want to reduce the harmful effects on man and the environment of pesticide use.
here in the eu pesticide package we are also discussing how we can - and this is our aim - protect people, animals and the environment from harm caused by dangerous pesticides.
i hope that this vote sends a strong signal to environmental and health protection.
i hope we will be united in the goal of achieving better protection of man, animals and the environment through more reliable figures and data.
the plant protection products are on the test bench and the statistics are part of a package which also includes the marketing authorization regulation and the directive on the sustainable use of plant protection products.
the whole package aims to minimise the impact of plant protection products on both human health and the environment.
the competitive pressures in the single market and the cross-border aspects of the environment require a common approach.
in line with the tradition of the spring summits, this session will also focus on economic issues, in particular the lisbon strategy, as well as climate change and energy and financial stability.
the global economic environment is in a period of testing.
these are the challenges of climate change and energy.
last year saw historic commitments in climate and energy policy.
this objective is both an economic and an ecological challenge of major long-term importance.
if we respond to it with ambition, we can create a story not just of economic success, but also of environmental success.
if all key partners are able to address the challenges of climate change, our efforts will be successful.
when the copenhagen climate conference meets at the end of 2009, europe should be the leading force in negotiating an ambitious and comprehensive post-kyoto agreement.
this is another reason to adopt the agreement as soon as possible in 2009. let me also briefly touch on some other energy-related issues.
an efficient, functioning internal energy market is an essential condition for a reliable, sustainable and competitive energy supply in europe.
it will also pay particular attention to further measures relating to security of supply and external energy policy.
the european council will place efforts to tackle climate-related energy policy within the framework of developing new technologies and increasing investment in them.
this was recently defined in the strategic energy technology plan.
the heads of state or government will also consider the conclusions of the joint communication of the secretary-general, high representative solana and the commission on the impact of climate change on international security.
the complexity of climate change requires more comprehensive policy coordination and the european council will call for a thorough follow-up to the report.
we also have an important task to achieve even more sustainability through our climate and energy policies.
rising energy and food prices are fuelling inflation, eating into the purchasing power, especially of those who depend on salaries and pensions for their income.
we cannot afford to allow their talents to go to waste.
the third priority we have looked at is the business environment.
(applause) the final lisbon pillar we have revisited in our strategic report is energy and climate change, the defining challenge of our generation.
it may be early days for the energy and climate package.
so i am really determined – the commission is really determined – to work with the member states so that we can have a basic political agreement on the energy internal market and on the climate protection and renewables package by the end of this year.
it is of course important to link the climate protection strategy with the internal market for energy.
we all know this is essential for our vision of competitive, secure and sustainable energy for europe.
it is about modernising our social systems and securing their sustainability.
it is about a dynamic business environment where entrepreneurs are spending their time and resources on producing high-quality goods and services that people from all over the world want to buy, not on filling in unnecessary forms and having to battle every day against red tape.
it is also about transforming europe into a low-carbon economy that is good for the environment and good for business.
i agree with the issues you emphasise, and indeed they are already part and parcel of european union policies on the basis of proposals from the european commission: social inclusion, sustainability of public finance, the need to fight inflation, r&d, improved economic policy coordination, the promotion of entrepreneurship and innovation, the external dimension of the internal market, and climate change and energy.
when i say growth, it is growth that is sustainable from a social and environmental point of view.
we are discussing a possible or unlikely unbundling of energy policy.
(applause from the centre) on the subject of climate and energy: i was shocked to hear a representative of the german government in brussels say that environmental policy should be kept separate from industrial and economic policy a few days before this spring summit.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
so it is obvious that the german ministry of the environment has no real idea of what sustainability actually means.
it is not surprising that the german government is continuing to work against co2 regulations for cars, that it does not want to see the single energy market as the commission has designed it, and that it is trying to organize an alliance against the area of 'new definitions of emissions trading'.
i am not sure, for example, that the new priority for renewable energy, which seems so uncontroversial, is actually enough to create sustainability in the field of energy and climate.
it is sometimes felt that, just as with these major gas deals with russia - northstream, southstream - this mediterranean union is further proof that a uniform policy on energy and security of supply is not possible in the union at all.
how can we ensure that rising energy prices do not threaten social cohesion and integration?
these four questions, i believe, are fundamental if economic growth is to be truly socially and environmentally sustainable.
but that is not in the interests of the people of europe, that is not in the interests of european businesses, and that is not in the interests of the european parliament, which has called in many resolutions for them to take better account of the economic, social and environmental realities of the european union.
the commission's first task, when we talk about climate protection, is to persuade the member states at the summit to stick to their old objectives.
but legislation is not meant to punish, it is meant to motivate our people and our companies to innovate and ultimately to be more sustainable.
i think the real question is much deeper: it's about sustainability.
if we have crossborder co2 problems in the ets, which i do not deny, then i would suggest that we look for more shoulders to carry these burdens, for example by introducing a sensible waste policy throughout europe.
the council's draft conclusions show that the language on the internal energy market is extremely weak.
kyoto, it was a process back then, it was about climate action.
i also believe that it was right to make a new priority with the aim of more growth and employment, because this is also the prerequisite for being able to pursue a sound environmental and social policy as the second and third pillars of the lisbon strategy.
on the other hand, there have been a number of legislative proposals in other sectors to make progress, particularly in the areas of social, environmental and consumer law.
the union's economy and employment can only flourish on the basis of a sustainable european transport policy and trans-european networks adapted to the needs of the union.
and so, in the context of sustainability, we also believe that we have to give logistics a lot of space.
first of all, let me reiterate that the european council this week will focus on three main topics: the launch of the new cycle of the lisbon strategy, energy and climate policy, or the energy and climate package, and the issue of financial stability.
on the other important set of issues, the climate and energy package, let me say this.
yes, mr watson, we are aware that it would be useful if governments, and not just governments, but perhaps also the european institutions and other important actors, set an example in achieving greater energy efficiency, reducing energy consumption and the like.
the fact is that this would be useful, but energy efficiency is certainly and will be an important element of the climate and energy package also in the european council's deliberations.
the best solution is to make sure that others open themselves up, not only in terms of trade, in terms of access to their markets, but also in environmental matters, with more ambition, and in terms of social rights.
we must also resist the tendency to oppose social and environmental concerns.
what i can tell you is that in the next phase the commission will be even more determined to build a genuine european energy policy and to fight climate change.
i would like to stress what mr turmes and mrs harms have said, amongst others, namely that we must not oppose the social and the environmental aspects.
the problem of energy or energy-intensive industries deserves a particular response.
what we want is greening, an industry that can move towards a new compatibility with our climate change objectives.
it would be a fundamental mistake to oppose the competitiveness of european industry and the fight against climate change.
that is why in our proposals - the commission has made it clear - we are in favour of specific guarantees for energy-intensive industries.
our aim is to have a global agreement on climate change, to be at the copenhagen meeting with proposals that can move others.
but if there is no global agreement, we will be prepared to take protective measures - yes, let us not be afraid of the word - in favour of europe's energy-intensive industries.
it has been good and will continue to be good for the economic, social and environmental development of our europe.
(parliament adopted the resolution) almost exactly fifty years ago, on 19 march 1958, the joint parliamentary assembly of the three institutions - the european economic community, the european atomic energy community and the european coal and steel community - met for the first time here in strasbourg, in what was then the maison de l'europe, and was composed of representatives of the peoples of the states associated in the community, as stipulated in the treaties of rome, which had come into force a few weeks earlier.
sadly, much of the rest of europe lived in a totalitarian environment, stagnating or even declining economically and civilisationally.
it is clear that we will only be able to respond adequately to the lisbon challenges, environmental and energy issues and financial market shocks if we take account of global trends and global actors and integrate all of this into our activities.
if we don't work together to find low-carbon and energy-efficient solutions, we're not going to be able to slow down climate change.
we will face more and more floods, hurricanes, droughts, new diseases, threatened ecosystems and climate refugees.
with its experience of opening up markets and rules that reflect its values of freedom, solidarity and sustainable development, europe alone has the dimensions, institutions and instruments to manage and shape globalisation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund is an active contribution to europe's fight against climate change.
as the shadow rapporteur on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to make two points.
first, the fund must ensure that sustainability is given the highest priority in the projects to be supported.
it is therefore important that greenhouse gas emissions are analysed over the entire life cycle of the projects to be supported and that, if necessary, projects are not supported if their carbon footprint is unsatisfactory.
secondly, i am optimistic and i expect that at the copenhagen climate conference next year we will be successful and that we will be able to launch a successor agreement to kyoto.
the use of renewable energy sources will then play an important role for developing countries.
if we as europeans have committed ourselves to reducing co2 emissions, then it does not matter where co2 is emitted.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat the problem of co2 emissions.
it is not just a question of providing development aid, but we europeans must not only take the lead on climate change, but we must also take others along on our journey; they must be able to follow us.
we europeans can only achieve our european dream of saving the climate if we make consistent progress along this path.
croatia’s accession negotiations have generally been going well, although they have been affected by the application of the ecological and fisheries protection zone – the famous, or infamous, zerp issue.
there is not much time to waste.
the name issue has consumed much political energy lately.
however, much remains to be done in the field of environmental protection to ensure environmentally sustainable development in line with eu objectives.
coal has been subsidised at an incredible rate for 50 years, and to continue to do so is contrary to any climate policy statement of the european union.
we believe that this coal mining should be replaced by a more consistent promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
otherwise, europe will not be able to meet its climate policy objectives.
i think that coal is already sufficiently taken into account in the seventh framework programme as a dirty energy source.
the commission will support all these efforts, in particular with a study to better understand the links between culture, creativity and innovation, as well as another study on how to have an environment conducive to the development of creative and cultural industries, including support for small and medium-sized enterprises and risk-taking.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has made a number of recommendations in its report on information and awareness campaigns, particularly with regard to consumers.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not as the previous speaker has shown, we in the european parliament are far from being unanimous on the issue of global warming.
i also don't think we're going to be able to reconcile the two camps anytime soon, those who believe global warming is a big problem and those who keep on reporting fundamental doubts that the problem exists in this form.
the great challenge of climate change and the great challenge of ensuring a good, sustainable and affordable energy supply in europe and other parts of the world can be tackled with the same tools.
so i think that everything that has been discussed in europe so far as a response to climate change would make sense, even for the skeptics: limited resources or the difficult availability of energy resources, often stored in crisis regions of the world, where you have ideas about renewable energy, about energy efficiency or about energy saving, good tools to move forward in both areas.
for me, that's a question: why is it so easy to agree on the tools to adapt, and why is it so difficult to agree on the tools to actually combat global warming?
because i think that the adaptation measures are partly hiding the fact that the wrong policies and the wrong development and industrial strategies are going to continue to exacerbate the problems that we have because of global warming.
i believe that these adaptation measures, in relation to the instruments we give ourselves to combat climate change, always have to be questioned a little bit.
climate change is coming, that's a scientific fact.
the important thing is that we can keep global warming below two degrees celsius.
but even a rise in global warming of less than two degrees celsius would have negative economic and environmental consequences for some regions in europe.
but climate change will also present an opportunity.
an opportunity because we can adapt to climate change.
we should also adapt the lisbon process to climate change in the context of adaptation measures.
this is an opportunity for an ecological industrial policy.
an economic and industrial policy that decouples growth from co2, greenhouse gas emissions.
i would like to ask the commissioner: to what extent is the lisbon process linked to climate change being discussed in the commission?
what will be the impact of climate change in each region?
new policy priorities that urgently need budgetary support, such as the implementation of our concrete role in climate policy, cannot be funded without jeopardising old priorities.
the same applies to financing growth and jobs or to a sustainable europe.
it is not a few, and it is not small: tackling climate change, creating growth and jobs, a social europe, research, education, training, helping the world's poorest countries, fulfilling our responsibilities in the world.
the commission has also taken the view that the commission should be able to take action in the field of the environment.
as regards our energy financing, we have revised our policy on financing energy projects in the light of the european guidelines on combating climate change.
in this context, we have decided to give priority to investments that reduce co2 emissions, and this is already reflected in the figures for 2007, since the financing of projects for the production of electricity from fossil fuels now represents only 25% of our financing in the energy sector.
in 2007, for example, the amount spent on renewable energy far exceeded the amount spent on these more conventional forms of energy production.
in the field of energy and innovation, the eib helps the eu to implement its policies.
because we cannot wait until the world's food and energy shortages fly by and then wonder why people are taking to the streets.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the environment committee was satisfied with the work of the directorates-general for the environment and health.
he has worked hard throughout the discharge procedure, produced an excellent report and thankfully fully accepted the conclusions of the environment committee on discharge 2006. the committee on budgetary control has thus accepted what the committee on the environment had unanimously adopted.
the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the new eu-wide strategy for the environment, which will be presented to the european parliament and the council in the autumn.
the increase in energy prices and the political targets - including our political targets for climate objectives, for example, to make biofuels more attractive - are leading to the results that my colleague mr daul has just described in his remarks.
i do not mean that i believe that agricultural fuels are the panacea because the energy balance is negative and because there is room for speculation, but we must try to convert what is waste into energy.
but it is not possible, of course, to have a just world, a sustainable world, if we first raise our prices, if the capital market raises the prices of raw materials and food, and then try to build solidarity with the countries of southern africa and south america, in order to ship back products that are expensive.
i believe, however, that it is our task to advocate, also here in parliament - some colleagues have also mentioned this - a more realistic approach to the various sources of energy if we are to really make these objectives our own.
i do not see the often cited link between food prices and the cultivation of renewable raw materials in this way.
his main motivation for his involvement there is energy resources.
europe's main motive is the sustainable development of africa.
we are talking about the need for environmental and climate action and we are getting a lot of response from the latin american side.
in the meantime, i would like to say that no climate policy objective can be achieved unless we bring the countries of latin america to our side in order to achieve these objectives.
when we talk about the food crisis, as we did yesterday, and that the shortage of food and the shortage of land available for food production is a consequence of environmental policy because of the use of biomass, talk to brazilians, talk to latin american politicians.
the world must be made more peaceful, its institutions must be adapted to the 21st century, environmental problems, food problems, financial controls must be improved - all these are the issues on the agenda in lima.
the climate change will be an important issue, and the resolutions rightly state that it is the poor who are most affected by climate change.
what people there suffered after hurricanes mitch and stan is a small taste of what we will experience if we don't get climate change under control.
we have here in the house adopted by a large majority the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading scheme.
if we are to fight climate change together, then the latin american countries must also cooperate constructively on this issue.
the first time was two days before you took office in ljubljana, then on 8 january at the opening of the european year of intercultural dialogue, and finally in february on the sidelines of the united nations general assembly in new york on climate change.
i would like to mention two at this point: global warming and human rights.
last year, the european union put environmental issues, and in particular global warming, at the heart of its policy-making.
this was undoubtedly the right and wise decision, for climate change and environmental degradation are proven to be the most serious threat and the greatest challenge facing us all.
the key objective is to achieve a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990. the achievement of this objective is defined as a stand-alone commitment.
these goals are so important, so ambitious, that they truly enable a transformative vision of action in the face of global warming and a much-needed example of global leadership.
consultations this year and next will show how much can be achieved in practice ahead of the international conference in copenhagen scheduled for december 2009. the european parliament, and i want to stress this in particular, has already recognised the importance of this issue by setting up a special committee on climate change and will have a very important role to play in this respect.
there are expressions of support, but also of scepticism, which point to the concerns expressed by some european industries, as well as to the fact that the current global economic difficulties are making it more difficult to compete, and that environmental issues are relatively less important.
clearly, global warming has already reached the point where the international community faces a stark choice: either to continue with growth methods and finally accept disaster, or to summon the courage for a transformative approach that can adequately mitigate the effects of global warming and prevent the worst.
there is a strong drive in the business community to develop new technologies based on clean energy.
respect for the environment is not the only area where the european union needs to take on the role of world leader.
this is partly due to the ruthless pursuit of economic gain, regardless of the needs of the local population and the environment.
the european union must be active by proposing economic models for sustainable growth, it must be active through humanitarian and diplomatic efforts, but also through sanctions that will support the decisions of the international criminal court.
the european union should be expected to play a leading role in all matters, such as global warming and human rights.
on the one hand, climate protection: if we stick to the timetable, we will conclude our work in such a way that there will be a position of the european union at the united nations summit in copenhagen in december 2009. we also want to thank you for your advocacy for human rights.
climate change will make it even more likely that refugees will want to come to europe.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the oral question to the commission on biodiversity (cop 9) and the 4th meeting of the parties to the cartagena protocol on biosafety (cop-mop 4) by mr miroslav ouzký on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0023/2008 - b6-0017/2008)
thank you very much.
all of us who have spoken here have made a commitment to more species protection, to more biodiversity.
but all this poetry, all these declarations must not hide the fact that not only the climate - as you said, commissioner - has conquered the headlines, but unfortunately also the protection of species and nature.
i welcome market-based instruments for policy enforcement, including in environmental policy.
emissions trading systems work well in theory, but the reality is different.
the european carbon trading system is in a state of chaos.
i am not opposed to taxes being levied to achieve environmental objectives, but i am in favour of their being levied only if they meet the criteria mentioned.
mr wijkman raised the point of inconsistency between emission trading systems and the carbon tax.
i would like to say that, in the revision of the energy taxation directive, one of the objectives is precisely to deal with and tackle any possible inconsistency.
two members raised the issue of possible border tax adjustments to prevent carbon leakage in case international negotiations fail.
i would like to say that the main and priority goal of the commission is to reach a successful post-kyoto international agreement to address climate change.
on the use of reduced vat rates to achieve environmental goals, the commission services are currently studying the issue.
our focus remains the simplification of the regulatory environment for smes, including in the accounting area.
but we must also take account of the new challenges that we are facing in these years, with an enlarged europe, with the acceleration of social, economic and technological changes, with underlying trends as profound as globalisation, ageing or climate change; we must update the foundations and the vision that inspire the project of economic and monetary union.
the budgetary surveillance regulated in the stability and growth pact should be deepened by broadening that surveillance, by deepening it in relation to the quality of public finances or their long-term sustainability, by broadening the scope of surveillance to macroeconomic aspects beyond strictly budgetary ones, and by establishing a closer link between budgetary surveillance and the development of structural reforms.
if we think about why we are better able to cope with commodity and energy prices, this is also a question that the euro has answered excellently.
the nominal criteria may be correct in slovakia, but the sustainability of real convergence, in terms of a sustained rate of inflation, is in doubt.
the commission has already taken a number of important decisions, including the adoption of the new directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the next item is the report by mr hartmut nassauer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the criminal protection of the environment (com (2007) 0051 c6-0063/2007 2007/0022 (cod)) (a6-0154/2008).
the european union will therefore also be imposing penalties, firstly for breaches of environmental law.
the council, the commission and parliament have long agreed that environmental law may also be enforced by means of penalties: it took several years to determine who could operate here: the member states in the framework of framework decisions or the community in the form of the directive.
it is not just any environmental violation, but the violation of laws precisely laid down in an annex, that constitutes a possible offence.
it is indeed very welcome that the commission has not been intimidated by the eu member states and has put forward a proposal to punish environmental offences.
it would be desirable if there were an agreement at first reading, because environmental violations can no longer be considered a cavalier offence.
environmental crime must be punished and i hope that we can set a milestone to make it clear that the environment is a good worth protecting and that we must do everything possible to ensure that environmental violations are punished.
the annex, as provided for in the vote, is complete, and includes all the important instruments of environmental legislation which may be relevant to the offences defined in the directive.
that said, the commission is now undertaking to be very vigilant in the transposition of this text, which is indeed a major step forward for environmental protection in europe.
mr medina has rightly pointed out that all the community's environmental rights must now be examined and proved, so to speak, in criminal law in the light of the new facts.
the criminal probation of community law is not limited to environmental law but can in principle be applied to all other community fields.
let me first thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the report, which embraces numerous areas such as climate change, poverty alleviation and development.
any such strategy evidently should fully and coherently take up all policy areas, including critical issues such as food security, development and the environment.
a sustainable and coherent policy on access to raw materials would therefore combine: firstly, negotiations securing international commitments in the wto and bilateral context; secondly, enforcement of wto rules and existing agreements; and thirdly soft measures such as dialogue and alliance-building.
secondly, we know that valuing the special advantages of the outermost regions is the only appropriate strategy to ensure the endogenous and sustainable development of these areas.
the report rightly calls for the future of the strategy to support the outermost regions to be discussed not only in the light of challenges such as climate change, demographic change, the management of migration flows, agriculture and maritime policy, but also in the light of the positions it should take in the context of other community policies.
at the same time, investment in education and training must be made in such a way that the concept of lifelong learning is truly sustainable and includes those with lower achievements.
when we extend anti-discrimination to access to goods and services and to reversing the burden of proof, we create a climate of hidden discrimination.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the climate package presented by commission president barroso in january suggests that shipping could perhaps be included in emissions trading.
i believe that maritime policy must do at least four things to protect the climate: include shipping in emissions trading, and do it now, not later; drastically reduce emissions of co2, so2 and nox and use renewable energy sources such as wind and solar.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs.
mr piecyk has already pointed out that the whole environmental problem is unsolved.
there is a lack of concrete action, and it is not clear how the actors - shipowners, for example - can contribute to combating climate change and how they can compete globally.
this ranges from measures such as reducing sulphur and nitrogen oxides at sea to measures in ports such as the use of land-based energy.
you have addressed the imo: of course, it is good that the imo has decided something on climate protection and reduction, but you know how difficult it is for the member states to sign the imo resolutions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the marine environment is protected, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step.
for environmental reasons, i would now say to mrs lichtenberger that if i want to avoid pointless return journeys, the entrepreneur must be allowed to make journeys in other countries in a sensible way.
thirdly, to protect the environment and conserve energy resources by reducing empty cars.
from an ecological point of view, we should introduce free cabotage immediately.
the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the joint parliamentary delegation will also be discussing climate change this afternoon, so i am sure you will be following this plenary debate with interest.
the next item is the interim report by karl-heinz florenz on the scientific facts of climate change: findings and recommendations for action (2008/2001 (ini)) (a6-0136/2008).
why is the european union moving towards developing a non-permanent committee on climate change?
you, mr president, have organised an excellent event and delivered a very important speech on climate change, which has given me great pleasure and given me a lot of strength.
the ipcc, the world climate council, was there, we heard the world agricultural organization, we heard the un environment organization, we heard the climate conference in the federal republic of germany, and many others, which led to the fact that we now have the facts on the table.
it is about us in europe gathering the strength to bring about a new, third industrial revolution, which includes the three pillars of sustainability, namely the sustainability of products, the social component and, of course, the economic component.
because one thing is certain: the climate debate is only a small part of our problem.
we have a sustainability debate because we are currently burning energy that has been created over millions of years in just 500 years, and we have no answer at all to how our children and grandchildren can develop their energy in the future.
the commission is not the socialist group has asked for the establishment of the ad hoc committee on climate change.
i do not want to go into the details of the interim report, which i consider excellent, but i would like to draw your attention to one example: we were all very enthusiastic a few years ago when we said that we wanted to move away from oil and towards renewable resources in reducing carbon.
we said we were going to use biofuels, without anyone realising that the massive use of land to grow crops that could be used for energy could lead to a shortage of land for food production.
today we know that we must solve the energy and climate problems, and at the same time fight world hunger.
the fact that we have been building industrial structures for 50 or 60 years has been responsible for the climate.
(applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you very much to karl-heinz florenz for the very good cooperation in the climate committee.
if you take the florence report and say that this is the state of the climate policy debate in the european parliament, you might conclude: 'prima climate among meps in the european parliament.'
unfortunately, the fact is that, in parallel with the climate committee, the industry committee, the environment committee and the development committee will also be pursuing climate policy.
let us take the debate on the regulation of co2 emissions from cars.
what is currently on the table from the rapporteur for the committee on industry, mr langen, has nothing to do with ambitious climate protection policy or with the attempt to guarantee energy security through efficiency technologies - which we are proposing for the automotive industry in europe - .
i would like to know where the spirit of the general climate debate is in this debate about cars.
another point: emissions trading will be an important topic in poznan and copenhagen.
the commission has hardly put its proposal for emissions trading on the table when meps are once again the extended arm of the industrial lobby in the european parliament.
the reality of climate policy in the european parliament has nothing to do with what we are voting on here today.
the climate change we are experiencing is also largely due to human activities.
we are talking about unprecedented periods of heat, about a loss of species of up to 70% caused by climate change.
these are claims based on long-term modelling, but they cannot be attributed to human-induced climate change in any way.
mr president, i specifically ask you to accept amendment no 15. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
one example is that climate change should be a priority for development aid.
in europe too, we have reached a point in climate protection where social gains are being threatened.
already today, a german household pays more than 40% of the electricity price to the state, at european pumps it is between 55 and 78%, and the new system of emissions trading will in turn increase electricity prices by at least 30%.
i am calling for a rational approach to the issue of climate change, and then we will find socially and economically acceptable solutions.
the european union is and will remain a force capable of confronting and pushing forward, alone, of course in cooperation with all global partners, a serious response to climate change.
and the second conclusion is that climate change is not just a problem, but it can also be an opportunity.
i would like to stress that the european union is successfully and very thoroughly preparing all the measures that can effectively respond to these consequences of climate change in the framework of the climate and energy package.
the transition to a safe and sustainable low-carbon economy will affect many policies, as well as the economic and daily lives of people, citizens.
i would like to mention in particular the synergies between climate change and energy.
this requires the development of coherent european and national policies in the field of research and development and innovation; the promotion of a sustainable transport system that will enable member states to take the necessary action to combat climate change; the improvement of energy efficiency, in particular in buildings, but also in all other sources in all sectors, and the communication to consumers of efficient energy use in order to reduce the social consequences and also to seize new opportunities.
as mr. florenz's report noted, the science of climate change is well-established and accepted, and the fact that the current global warming is caused by human activity is scientifically indisputable.
i would like to say in particular that we think it is important that the interim committee on climate change, which mr sacconi said was in a good, positive mood, has therefore discussed climate change issues in depth at its thematic meetings and has also adopted by a large majority the interim report on the scientific facts on climate change.
in particular, we welcome the decision of the european parliament to extend the mandate of the interim committee on climate change until february 2009. we see this as a further proof, mr president, that the european parliament has supported the european union's ambitious policy on climate change in the international context and that it is making sure that political decisions are supported by the latest scientific findings.
we also welcome the announcement in today's debate that the discussion of the climate and energy package will follow suit, which should represent a serious implementation of the commitments of the european council of march 2008.
member of the commission.
but that is the least we can do in the coming years, and to inform you, the figures you gave earlier are correct, and we must say that the european union is reducing greenhouse gas emissions at a time when other countries, like the united states, are increasing them, and by a large margin compared to 1990. in 2005, as you said, we were 2% below the level of 1990, in 2006 just under 3% for the 15 countries of the european union that have the collective objective, but as a european union of 27 we are even better, about 8% less than in 1990. at the end of the period provided for by the kyoto protocol to fulfil our commitments, the european union as the eu-15 will have at least 8% less and as the eu-27 about 11% less than in 1990. the fact that we will have a little more than an 8% reduction is very positive, because it will make it easier for us to achieve the target for 2020 and beyond.
the resolution recalls the risks of the unchecked course of climate change, which will affect human societies in a variety of ways and damage our economies and cultural traditions.
i think it is equally important to highlight the potential consequences of climate change for international security, whether it be through food and water shortages, conflicts over control of resources or migratory flows.
the pressure on the international community from emergencies due to extreme weather events or violent conflicts due to climate change is constantly increasing.
i would first like to mention the reduction of greenhouse gases through appropriate action at national level in developing countries.
as was understood in bali, any move by developing countries will depend not only on serious commitments by developed countries to reduce emissions, but also on substantial efforts by them to finance mainly technology transfer and the creation of the necessary administrative capacity.
it is important for the european union to use all the opportunities for dialogue with the major developing countries to reach an understanding of what this means and how the european union could support such actions, whether through policy cooperation, technical assistance, transfer of know-how and incentives to the carbon market, or through financial assistance.
measures should be taken in all areas, including emissions from energy use and deforestation.
to raise awareness and make consumers more aware of the greenhouse gas emissions generated by their lifestyle and consumption habits.
this increased awareness of citizens should, however, be accompanied by strong economic incentives for businesses to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the products and services they produce.
the transition to a low-carbon economy on a global scale is required and can only be achieved by systematic and coordinated measures to reduce emissions across all sectors.
the climate change and energy package, which is in the process of being co-decided, gives us the lead in this transition.
it also gives us the opportunity to demonstrate that an ambitious climate policy is not only feasible, but also more broadly beneficial to our economies and societies.
in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the european parliament on its important contribution to the effort to tackle the problem of climate change, and also mr florenz on his excellent work.
i hope that parliament will continue in this constructive way and that we will continue to exchange views and cooperate with each other, both on the climate and energy package and on the international negotiations in view of poznan and copenhagen.
but the real challenge is how do we approach our sustainability strategies.
the energy we're using right now has been accumulated over millions of years, and we're burning it in maybe a thousand years.
scientific facts must be the basis for the urgently needed debate on climate change.
scientific knowledge of the 'greenhouse effect' has been available for more than 180 years.
the evidence strongly suggests that immediate action is needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, that we must stay well below the 2°c target through lifestyles and consumer behaviour, political and societal policies and frameworks.
i support the rapporteur in saying that this is not just a debate about emission levels, but a social debate about sustainability.
the european sustainability strategy must address these issues and finally shape policy in a sustainable way.
i quote: 'where it is established that a continuing activity has, over a period of time, caused environmental damage liable to give rise to criminal liability under this directive, the question whether the perpetrator of the damage acted intentionally or negligently must be determined by reference to the time at which the perpetrator was aware, or ought to have been aware, of the facts constituting the infringement, and not by reference to the time at which the perpetrator commenced his activity.
i have to read this declaration and i quote: ‘the commission took note of the following amendment adopted in the committee on legal affairs: “where a continuing activity proves after a lapse of time to give rise to environmental damage which may in turn give rise to criminal liability under this directive, the question whether or not the perpetrator of the damage acted intentionally or negligently should be determined by reference to the time when the perpetrator became aware, or should have been aware, of the facts constituting the offence and not to the time when the perpetrator commenced its activity.
but i would still say that we should have a fundamental reform, because it is supposedly about money and co2 emissions.
it would be much cheaper, we would have less co2 emissions, and all of this would be possible by our own decision and without any contract change.
i have voted against the report, however, because on the one hand the climate is an important issue.
in this context, i have missed the action needed to mitigate climate change.
in this context, i believe that actions that will change our industrial base in a sustainable way cannot be taken on the basis of preliminary scientific consensus.
− climate change is a serious issue and a major challenge for humanity.
however, the actual human contribution to climate change is not entirely clear.
- i voted against this report in the final vote because i take climate protection seriously and cannot support apodictic and apocalyptic formulations with which we are trying to frighten the citizens of europe.
climate change is a sensitive issue that cannot be dealt with in slogans.
so there was a risk of an epidemic due to water pollution.
du ammunition is also a waste product of the nuclear industry, resulting from the enrichment of uranium or the production of nuclear weapons.
the problem is also the use of nuclear energy.
this dust is difficult to remove from the environment and becomes trapped in the lungs when inhaled.
the council is aware of the potential impact of biofuels and is therefore intensively developing so-called sustainable criteria for the production of biofuels.
among the sustainability criteria there is certainly the social impact criterion, which we will try to take into account.
this has something to do with our climate protection policy, which is becoming more and more a virtue terrorism, which is overwhelming europe with a regulation of lifestyles, which in some cases overturns the screw.
how else can the co2 emissions from the exhaust be punished 24 times more severely than the co2 emissions from the chimney?
the main topics will be co2 emissions and the associated climate change.
we have committed ourselves to reducing the european parliament's co2 emissions by 30% by 2020. to do this, a renowned consultancy company is preparing a carbon balance sheet for us, which will be available in september and presented to the bureau.
the security of energy supplies must be addressed by diplomatic, economic and technical means - and i say explicitly not military means.
remember – as has been mentioned already by the rapporteurs – climate change and its effects on international security, energy security – which now has to be contemplated in depth – were not contemplated in the strategy.
the link between security and development, security and energy, security and climate change, and even the issues we are currently facing, the evolution of prices and the availability of raw materials, the threat of food shortages and the problem of immigration, deserve greater attention.
but i also ask our colleagues: if we are talking about energy security, which is part of the wider security, is the answer to be that sarkozy, as the future president of the european council, will announce that he will release nuclear technology worldwide on the market without limits, without any means of control?
for example many of you have mentioned the question of energy security which is important and the question of the consequences of climate change in all its dimensions, the question of how to tackle the responsibility that we have with disasters that are natural and not manmade, for which we have resources and capabilities that have been put in place to combat such dramatic events.
i think if we were to pick two horizontal issues we have to tackle, one would be climate change and the other would be proliferation and disarmament.
the challenges and crises of the western balkans, the south caucasus, the middle east, afghanistan, the fight against terrorism, the current media and real food crises, energy security, climate change, the economic recession, but also the issues of transparency and regulation of financial markets - in all these issues we need each other and we need to work together.
finally, another important issue is climate change, because it affects many aspects, from food security to energy to water supply.
both partners should agree on a common approach to mitigating climate change.
if we can do that, and if we can get that momentum past the elections in the united states this year and in the european union next year, we may have laid the groundwork for us to understand that climate change, terrorism, organized crime, migration and many other things can only be tackled together in the interest of a better world.
we owe it to the people of russia and other autocratic systems that the issue of energy security does not overshadow all other areas.
the commission considers that all three components of the scheme – the standard gsp for all beneficiaries, the ‘gsp plus’ for those countries that make specific commitments in terms of adherence to international standards for good governance and sustainable development, and the everything but arms initiative for the least-developed countries – are operating well and in line with the overall policy orientations put in place for the period 2006-2015. that is why the basic approach underpinning the proposed regulation for 2009-2011 is one of continuity in substance, combined with some technical updating.
a number of comments also touch on the need to ensure that developing countries are able to access sufficient and good-quality aid for trade to help them build trade capacity and harness the potential of trade to drive their own economic growth and sustainable development.
secondly, the aps+ incentive scheme provides additional benefits to countries that implement certain international standards on human rights, workers' rights, environmental protection, drug control and good governance.
secondly, the establishment of a minimum framework of social and environmental standards in the beneficiary countries.
the commissioner rightly mentioned that gsp+ is about sustainable development and it is connected, as the chairman of the committee on international trade said, to the millennium goals.
there is one topic to which i would very much like to draw your attention, which might become a complicated and tricky one in the future, concerning those countries that are operating within the scheme but which have a complicated environment.
at the same time, the eu provides an incentive for sustainable development, good governance and human rights, as well as labour standards and child labour in particular.
we have climate change, we have rising food prices.
an agreement was signed between the iaea, the international atomic energy agency, and euratom and the commission, respectively, aimed at accelerating the proliferation of nuclear energy.
i would like to see the increased awareness of the special concern of small businesses, particularly in environmental and consumer protection policy, also reflected in other legislation we are discussing here.
the slovenian authorities have confirmed that there has been no discharge to the environment.
they address the multiple challenges of ecology and economics and ensure a well-balanced social environment in rural areas.
the west bank must also adopt a new course: the credibility of the palestinian authority must be strengthened and the conditions for sustainable economic development must be achieved in a sustainable manner.
the blockade has led to a massive pollution of the environment, which threatens the livelihood of the fishermen, who are protesting.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by caroline jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on waste and repealing certain directives (11406/4/2007 c6-0056/2008 2005/0281 (cod)) (a6-0162/2008).
but in waste policy, co2 is not a factor at all.
it is a question of mixed or unmixed waste and how it is treated under the principle of autarky.
it is a failure to acknowledge the need to do more to protect the climate and conserve resources.
we know that the european environment agency has forecast a 50% increase in waste by 2020. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
it is also disappointing that incineration is increasingly becoming the ultimate solution and that waste prevention is being pushed into the background.
so we would have needed these recycling rates and the stabilisation of waste to correct this imbalance.
i hope that by adopting amendments we can improve this draft a little and really do what is necessary: namely, to develop an ambitious waste policy, such as we need in the european union.
it 's about this problem: in many countries in the eu, uncontrolled feeding or the uncontrolled dumping of untreated, unsterilized food waste is a recurring occurrence.
so far, we have decided in the committee that animal by-products are excluded from this waste framework directive.
it states that manure that is processed into biogas is suddenly waste.
this means that the farmer must obtain a permit to process waste, that he must specify the quantity and type of waste involved, and that he must indicate the location.
the second point is the question of waste oil.
the waste oil framework directive - which is now being repealed - has so far provided for the recycling and recovery of waste oil.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position of the council of 20 december 2007 with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy and amending directives 82/176/eec, 83/513/eec, 84/156/eec, 84/491/eec, 86/280/eec and 2000/60/ec (11486/3/2007 c6-0055/2008 2006/0129 ((cod)) (a6-0192/2008).
it is very regrettable that the back wind given by the european parliament to water protection at its first reading, by doubling the list of pollutants to be controlled and by obliging eu member states to take measures to reduce nitrogen emissions, has unfortunately been blown away.
i therefore regret that the commission is constantly playing the shifting-station game at the expense of health and the environment.
the commission said in 2006 that it did not intend to make any proposals in the environmental quality proposal for the reduction and limitation of pollutants of priority hazardous substances.
'water is life' or 'water is as precious as diamonds' were the headlines and the motivation when we launched the water framework directive in 2000. the directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy is now the last major piece of legislation in the context of the water framework directive.
it is about setting environmental quality standards for priority substances and pollutants, which ensure that our water, as the elixir of life, is protected against risks to a high degree - yes, i mean the highest possible level of protection.
− mr president, whenever we speak about international trade or european integration, we have to think of customs, which is responsible, at the eu external borders, for the correct administration of all the measures designed to tackle the dual challenge which customs is facing today: to facilitate trade while also protecting european citizens and the environment.
if not only analyses are published, but vulnerable groups are actively involved and given a voice, if institutions show concrete achievements rather than just good intentions, if education experts show motivating teaching that has led to school graduation, and if social transfers are visible that have been proven to reduce the risk of poverty in a sustainable way, then many who still feel marginalized today may finally feel that they have a right to participate in our society.
we all know the effects of this on climate change, on desertification.
both products are aimed at preventing predation and promoting sustainable management.
it is a crucial task of development policy to shift to a sustainable, conservative approach to logging, forestry and fishing.
commissioner, i believe that the commission is on the right track with the flegt process and also with the new fisheries partnership agreements since 2002. this is a good starting point, but i would encourage you to take this path further and radically towards promoting sustainable development.
if we are discussing environmental issues here, greenpeace will never be satisfied with the result we achieve.
in fact, imported inflation, especially in the case of energy products, can be somewhat contained in this way.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the very good cooperation they have shown on this package and would like to begin by responding to a criticism which plays a very important role in the german debate on the energy package and in particular on the disconnection of generation and the grid.
we are concerned with fair prices for energy, especially electricity.
we are concerned with better conditions for decentralisation, an important prerequisite for the organisation of the networks, in order to be able to take renewable energies and efficiency into account.
and we also want to put an end to the waste that is everywhere in the existing network structures.
if that's not a positive overall canon that's included in this energy package, then i don't know what is.
but so far, the so-called energy market in europe has been creating prices at the highest level, with an upward trend.
there is complete opacity in some countries in the pricing of energy, growing concentration in the energy market and insufficient or at best mediocre implementation of the climate and environmental objectives.
the unbundling of generation and the grid is an important step towards the positive objectives of energy policy.
what we want to take into account are the interests of consumers and the question is whether we are really making our energy economy sustainable or not.
i am glad that mia de vits has made a very strong statement on the rights of energy consumers in her report.
the charter can be a useful complement to this, not in the sense that it now becomes a binding legal document, but simply in the sense that, by summarising consumer protection laws in the energy sector, it actually represents a kind of guideline for politics and economics.
we all know that it is a given that our citizens can only participate in a meaningful way in social and economic life if they also have access to an adequate supply of energy.
the best thing would be to actually link the protection of the poor with the efficiency measures that are necessary to achieve our climate goals.
we have a situation where energy prices are rising every day and we are dependent on energy imports.
but i urge everyone not to hide behind alleged environmental or health arguments, but to be clear about what is really at stake.
it is also the basis for the economic, cultural, social and environmental dynamics of a society.
brake assist systems are suitable for resolving conflicts related to energy, environmental and safety objectives.
i like to listen to the people in ireland, but when mrs sinnott said yesterday that in one town the majority voted against the lisbon treaty because a waste incineration plant is being built there and we have a european law that calls for waste incineration, i wonder what a waste incineration plant in an irish town has to do with the lisbon treaty.
we want this treaty to make enlargement work, to introduce democracy to close the democratic gap by strengthening national parliaments to secure the subsidiarity clause, to enable us to meet the challenges of the future from the energy crisis to the fight against organised crime to give us the capacity to respond to food and oil prices and the like.
this applies first of all to the whole field of energy policy.
i am glad that the partnership and cooperation agreement can now be negotiated, in which we can deal with the critical issues such as energy security, for which we will only have competence under the lisbon treaty, as well as human rights issues.
but we should also make it clear that we have common interests with russia, not just in energy matters, where we need to establish security.
the safe transport of these goods is essential for road safety and environmental reasons.
at the same time, it will help to protect the environment and reduce costs.
this in turn relieves the strain on the roads and thus helps to protect the environment.
i am also grateful to parliament for its support of our efforts to identify the best way to achieve energy efficiency and co2 reduction through smart technologies and for guiding us in any measures to be taken.
most people lack any practical experience with these systems, so they cannot understand that firstly, driver assistance systems have an undeniable safety potential - after all, around 80% of all accidents are caused by human error - secondly, they make driving more comfortable, thirdly, they support and relieve the driver without relieving him of responsibility, and fourthly, they promote economical and ecological driving behaviour.
in doing so, parliament has strongly supported these priorities as they stand: combating climate change, promoting competitiveness for growth and jobs in close connection with the promotion of a sustainable europe and, of course, the implementation of a common immigration policy.
above all, we need a greater commitment to combating climate change.
the commission claims that the budget does not include the full amount of eur 14 billion for the environment.
in fact, in at least 13 paragraphs, the european council has actually presented an intensive programme for a revision of the multiannual financial planning: further development of frontex, europol, strengthening of eurojust, disaster management measures, pilot projects for second-generation biofuels and clean coal technology, funds for agriculture in developing countries, food security and stabilisation, increase of official development aid to 0.7 of gdp by 2015, trade aid for developing countries, immigration policy, new financial resources to deal with climate change.
i simply want to emphasise the need for a balanced and appropriate system that does not favour the interests of large companies but also takes into account other important issues such as job creation and environmental protection, as well as improving passenger safety.secondly, it is significant in this respect that in 2007 thousands of airbus employees lost their jobs as a result of what i consider to have been an unnecessary restructuring after years of enormous profits for the european consortium.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the next item is the report by mr marcin libicki, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the environmental impact of the planned baltic sea pipeline between russia and germany (petitions 0614/2007 and 0952/2007) [2007/2118 (ini) ] (a6-0225/2008).
of course, the construction of pipelines - whether oil or gas pipelines - has an impact on the environment, and it does not matter whether this pipeline runs through the north sea from ekofisk to emden, as it does today, or whether it runs from russia through poland to germany, as it does today.
environmental impact assessments have to be made, planning assessments have to be made.
we would thus be abolishing the environmental impact assessment.
i would ask you to let the countries and their authorities decide whether or not the environmental requirements are being properly met.
it is of course in the interest of all eu citizens, and in particular of the baltic sea countries, that there should be no danger to the environment.
but once all environmental concerns are addressed, the baltic sea pipeline should be no more obstacle, as the eu depends on diversifying both energy sources and energy transport routes.
the eu will have to import an additional 200 billion cubic metres of gas every year from 2015. to secure our energy supply in the future, each pipeline is important to the eu: the baltic sea pipeline is a complementary energy route and should not be seen as a competitor to other projects.
in future, a mr eu-energy could take over this task.
therefore, together with the council, which has been working on police, we the commission have been working very strongly on justice and we have, therefore, contributed substantially to shaping afghanistan’s national justice strategy and programme and again this has to be a sustainable programme which means for the long term.
this agreement is a very important political signal and at the same time an instrument for achieving the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves to combat climate change.
it is also an ambitious undertaking that is part of a broader political context, that of the ongoing negotiations on the energy/climate package in europe, and the ongoing negotiations in the world on the fight against climate change.
several factors had to be taken into account: the rising price of oil, the concern to preserve the international competitiveness of european airlines, the desire and commitment of the union to combat climate change and the pursuit of an international agreement in copenhagen in 2009. it was necessary to take account of the interests of each individual, the interests of regions which, because of their geographical situation, are very much dependent on aviation for their development or for their links with metropolitan areas.
this compromise recognises that aviation will also have to contribute to the effort to reduce co2 emissions and, at the same time, it allows this industry sector, which is obviously very important, to prepare and adapt to the new environmental requirements.
it will have to take account of the equivalent measures that these third countries could take and, above all, it should be seen as a precursor to a future global agreement on the participation of international aviation in the carbon market.
in conclusion, in the same spirit, it is stated that the proceeds from the sale of allowances by auction should be used - the term has been weighed - to combat the effects of climate change in europe and outside europe through a whole series of measures which are listed in the text.
the focus was on measures to facilitate adaptation to climate change in developing countries, aeronautics research and low-emission transport.
- the madam president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, dr liese, for his excellent work on the proposal to include aviation in the european union's emissions trading system, and the european parliament for its positive and constructive contribution.
members of the european parliament have played a key role in ensuring the integrity of the commission's proposal and setting higher environmental targets in a number of important areas.
by agreeing on the directive, the community institutions have demonstrated that the european union can adopt concrete measures to achieve its ambitious climate change objectives.
the directive is the first in a series of measures aimed at achieving the european union's 2020 greenhouse gas target.
its adoption sends a positive message for the upcoming negotiations on the climate and energy package.
all sectors of the economy should contribute to the achievement of the european union's climate change objectives.
the integration of the aviation sector into the emissions trading system is an integral part of the european union's overall approach to addressing the impact of aviation on climate change.
emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly; they have almost doubled compared to 1990 and are expected to double again by 2020. it is therefore necessary to take decisive action, which is not possible at the level of the member states but only at the level of the european union.
the agreement reached at second reading also confirms the strength of the european union's emissions trading system, which is the largest in the world.
with the international negotiations for an international climate agreement after 2012, the european union's emissions trading system can be the foundation on which the global carbon market will be built.
participation in the eu ets will provide airlines with the opportunity to gain the necessary experience in view of future global carbon emission limitations.
in parallel to the adoption and implementation of the directive, the commission will continue to work within the united nations framework convention on climate change and the international civil aviation organisation to achieve an effective global agreement to address aviation emissions.
we will continue to push for aviation to be included in an international climate change control regime beyond 2012, the year the kyoto targets expire.
i am particularly pleased that the european parliament has insisted throughout the negotiating process on the need to secure an ambitious directive to tackle the impact of aviation on climate change.
the agreement on this directive is an important step forward in the fight against climate change.
in fact, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have doubled, perhaps more than doubled, since 1990, and the latest figures are not yet available.
this is not at all in line with the european union's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, and by 30% if others join in.
the decision to include aviation in the emissions trading scheme was therefore overdue, and it is good that we have now agreed on a compromise package at second reading.
the agreement is an important signal for the overall climate and energy package, which we want to conclude this year, if possible.
air transport emissions trading will work better than electricity producers and energy-intensive companies from the outset.
it is about climate protection: we do not want to introduce a new tax here, but the funds must be earmarked.
this is necessary for environmental reasons, because two thirds of the emissions covered by our system are not from intra-european flights, but from intercontinental flights.
the icao has had the task of reducing emissions from aviation since 1997, since kyoto, and they have achieved nothing, nothing at all, and one important reason was the opposition of the current american government.
so i want to make it very clear again: we want an international agreement, but realistically you have to say that we will not get it until someone who is really serious about climate action moves into the white house with john mccain or barack obama.
and there are two aspects to that: it is a balanced outcome of negotiations between parliament and the council, but it is also a balanced outcome in terms of environmental interests, transport and economic interests, and we must recognize that this is a very complex issue.
we must not make airlines and, by shifting effects, european airports the victims of a one-sided environmental policy.
i am also glad that there is a balance in the matter, because although we are going back to the years 2004 to 2006 as the base years for allocating the allowances, we are very reasonable in the cap at 97% and 95% respectively, and by giving 85% of the allowances initially free of charge and only 15% to auction, we are achieving effects of reducing the environmental impact of air transport.
in view of the dramatic rise in the price of kerosene, we must ensure that we balance the interests of citizens in terms of the environment and transport and mobility.
the compromise shows that europe is serious about tackling climate change.
this compromise is also a good sign, across borders, internationally, that we are making progress on climate protection, but also on energy efficiency.
we have had many hearings on climate change in the european parliament in recent weeks and months.
all the experts have said through the bank: we must stop the trend in emissions, and we must do it in the next decade!
the revenue will be used to fight climate change and adaptation.
i have advocated the introduction of a multiplier during the legislative procedure on nox emissions.
this should not be the standard for how we discuss the climate package that is before us now, because this is backroom politics and not transparent democracy.
mr liese, the emissions trading system in the united states has failed not in the presidency but in the senate, where the party with the majority may be the next to elect the president.
we have the problem of realistically assessing the situation here, because even if we manage to convince the americans to do emissions trading, we still have a whole bunch of other countries in this world that i'm not sure how we want to talk to at all.
but it represents a balance between environmental requirements and economic constraints on quality.
firstly, you will prove that europe is capable of developing its legislation to combat climate change and, of course, this bodes well for the discussions on the climate/energy package.
you will strengthen europe's leadership in the global policy against anthropogenic carbon emissions, and this bodes well for the international negotiations in poznań in december 2008 and copenhagen in december 2009. and finally, you will encourage our international partners to encourage the personalities and political forces who want to give new impetus to the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
by reaching an agreement on this directive the community institutions are demonstrating their determination to adopt the concrete measures which are necessary to implement the european union’s ambitious climate change goals.
this directive is the first of a series of measures which are designed to deliver on the european union’s greenhouse gas objective by 2020. its adoption is a positive signal for the forthcoming negotiations on the climate and energy package and the international negotiations in poznań and copenhagen.
today, on the basis of the agreed text, all flights to and from the european union airports will be fully included in the european union emissions trading scheme from 2012. this means that from 2012 aircraft operators will need emission allowances to cover their flights into and out of the european union.
in 2012 the number of emissions allowances allocated to the aviation sector will be 3% below the sector’s average annual emissions for the years 2004-2006. from 2013 the number of allowances will be 5% lower.
like other industries in the scheme, they will be able to sell any allowances they do not need on the market, but if their emissions are higher they will need to buy more allowances or emission credits from clean energy projects in third countries.
this is how the emissions trading scheme creates an incentive for participants to minimise their emissions.
the revenues from this auctioning should be used to tackle climate change in the european union and third countries, especially developing countries.
this level may be increased from 2013 as part of the ongoing discussions to revise the emissions trading directive.
in january this year the commission proposed that 20% of allowances for aviation should be auctioned in 2013, increasing to 100% in 2020. while supporting this agreement, the commission position in the context of the revised emissions trading directive remains that the auctioning level in the aviation sector should be 20% in 2013 and increased in line with sectors other than the power sector.
for these sectors it is proposed to auction 20% of allowances in 2013, increasing to 100% in 2020. as regards the issue of nitrogen oxide emissions, the commission indicated in its original proposal that a separate measure would be proposed to address nitrogen oxide emissions and can make the following declaration:‘the commission recalls that it intends to issue by december 2008 a legislative proposal to introduce measures to limit nitrogen oxide emissions from aviation, in particular to address effectively the climate change impact and to avoid any negative incentives to reduce carbon dioxide emissions at the expense of nitrogen oxides.’ in conclusion, the commission is very pleased.
mrs lucas and mr holm and others have said that it falls short of the expectations of the environmental associations.
that is true, but it would not be a good compromise if we had taken in everything that the environmental groups and the greens have asked for.
the report by avril doyle gives us the opportunity to adjust the cap and the level of auctioning again, so that it is fair to other participants in emissions trading.
i am against the common position on the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading scheme because there are a number of reasons against it.
it has cold-bloodedly agreed with moscow on this project, over and above its european neighbours, and has thus aroused historical fears, but also justified ecological and economic questions to which there is no satisfactory answer.
it is about economic issues, it is about historical issues, it is certainly also about energy, and it is perhaps also about the environment.
but the environment is being carried like a monster here, and it is remarkable that the european parliament's committee on the environment, which should have been the first to take action, has refused to make any statement at all.
we have a networked debate here on the question of energy policy.
this debate on the energy package was a debate which i will remember as one which could not be conducted in all its details in an exclusively competent manner, but we went through it.
the problems are: how do we get more investment and cheaper prices, how do we achieve security of supply in the energy sector in europe?
it was always said that my country, germany, was completely isolated internationally in matters of the use of nuclear energy.
i sometimes wonder how such a report can be made and whether people do not know how few countries in the world use nuclear energy at all.
that is to say, nuclear energy has not played any role in the world so far, it has played a role only in a part of europe and a major role in north america.
i am advocating for the future and against nuclear energy because i am convinced that the risks of this technology are not manageable.
eight out of ten eu citizens live in cities and suffer from the same problems almost everywhere: congestion, accidents, noise and air pollution.
cities also play a central role in the context of climate change.
transport in cities is responsible for around 40% of all co2 emissions and 70% of all greenhouse gases.
the eu will not be able to meet its own climate targets unless traffic is reduced and the car is replaced by rail, bus, cycling and walking.
in fact, emissions in transport have increased by 30% since 1999, while in other sectors they have fallen by 10%.
secondly, we want to grant eu funds only if cities can present a sustainable mobility plan, so that many senseless road projects could be prevented.
to improve the environment, climate protection and road safety, europe's cities need substantial support from the eu.
because of the climate debate and because 80% of europeans live in cities, i was told that you were just declaring yourself responsible.
i would then like to make some comments on the points and suggestions you have made in your draft resolution to the ecb annual report 2007. in 2007 the ecb operated in a challenging environment with rising and volatile commodity prices and, since the second half of 2007, heightened uncertainty stemming from the ongoing correction in financial markets across the world that was mentioned by the rapporteur.
this is the contribution of the ecb's monetary policy to preserving purchasing power over the medium term and supporting sustainable growth and employment in the euro area.
achieving sound and sustainable budgetary positions and on this basis allowing the free operation of automatic stabilizers is the best contribution we trust fiscal policy can make to macroeconomic stability.
as president of the european parliament, i would like to express my sincere thanks to the chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, angelika niebler, and to the rapporteur of the european parliament, etelka barsi-pataky, for their successful work, and to the slovenian presidency for its important contribution to this important dossier for the future.
first, our visit at the end of april focused on sustainable development and climate change but also provided an opportunity to raise eu concerns about the situation in tibet directly with the chinese leadership.
in conclusion, i hope that, at our next eu-china summit in particular, we can make concrete progress on a number of issues of mutual importance, such as climate change, ongoing negotiations to conclude an eu-china partnership and cooperation agreement, human rights, and economic and trade issues.
let us ensure a balanced economic, social and environmental development and let us communicate the economic, cultural and historical enrichment that enlargement brings.
in its resolution, the african union also called on the states and parties to refrain from taking any measures that could harm the climate of dialogue.
the environment of extreme political violence, of systematic intimidation, has obviously tarnished this election and robbed it of all legitimacy and credibility.
it is all the more complicated because mr tsvangirai has some doubts about the balanced nature of the mediation and clearly wants to give it a framework, an environment, a support, so to speak, which will guarantee it in terms of balance.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
it is a matter of the european parliament, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the first is the energy-climate package.
if there is one area in which our nations cannot do anything on their own, it is the preservation of the ecological balance of the planet.
pollution, co2, the ozone layer, they don't care about the borders between our countries.
europe must come together, having decided to adopt the energy-climate package.
it is therefore essential that, under the french presidency, we adopt the energy-climate package which has been tabled by the commission.
the french presidency therefore calls on the european parliament to work with it to secure the adoption of the energy and climate package within six months.
(applause) i would like to thank secondly, i understand that for a number of countries - i am thinking in particular of those that joined us in 2004, where the bulk of energy is fossil fuels - the effort required is considerable.
but this energy-climate package is our top priority.
the next round of climate pledges has just been made.
yes, you are right, the climate package is a priority that our group shares with you.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i have listened to you very carefully, mr president, on the other points you have mentioned, on climate change and, in particular, on the lisbon treaty.
we support your priorities, you support our priorities: social europe and climate change, institutional reform and human rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
we also agree with you that nuclear energy needs its role in this climate package.
there is a clear majority in this parliament for the civil use of nuclear energy.
- mr president, i would first like to join in the congratulations expressed by the vast majority of members who have spoken: congratulations on the conviction, enthusiasm, energy and political will which president sarkozy has shown here today and which i am sure he and his ministers and collaborators will continue to show throughout the french presidency.
you know, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that what we are doing is a waste of time because i think that democracy at the european level can be rid of the violence that it sometimes has at the national level.
i do not think that this is a waste of time, as mr poignant and mr schulz understand.
yes, mr goebbels, others must make efforts and this is the whole question that will be asked in the climate negotiations, but europe must set an example.
of course, one may ask why we are concerned with mass graves that do not bring the dead back to life and may affect the climate between the two countries.
it is clear that in a climate of fear and intimidation there can be no democratic debate.
the treaty of lisbon, however, expressly states - i ask for your indulgence in making this point, because i have just made it in my speech to the european council - that the member states of the european union are bound by the principle of energy solidarity.
if one country is cut off from the energy supply by another, then everyone else has to help.
i'm sorry to say this, but the contract is very important for energy issues.
and let me add: recent events illustrate the need for europe to step up its efforts in the field of energy security; the european council invites the council, in cooperation with the commission, to examine the initiatives to be taken to this end, in particular as regards the diversification of energy sources and supply routes.
secondly - and this is my last point - energy is at the heart of our relations with russia.
what we do on energy inside europe will directly shape our relations with russia, so we must keep up the momentum to develop a coherent and strategic energy policy for europe.
he knew the area well and already ossetia and abkhazia, did not get along with the georgians or with the rest of the environment.
i would point out to you that, in reality, mr daul, this is not the only priority of the french presidency, there is also energy and this is one way of really strengthening - it is in the text - our attention to energy, to renewable energies, of course.
the loss of purchasing power of the ordinary people in the european union is a real impoverishment programme in the face of the dramatic increases in energy prices!
it's about sustainability.
we have also maintained the amounts proposed by the commission for environmental policies.
in particular, parliament has its own problems with the fact that we always and everywhere talk about wanting to fight climate change, but that is not reflected in the budget.
we as a parliament - you can see this from the vote that the plenary gave to the negotiating team of the committee on budgets in july by an overwhelming majority - will ensure that the fight against climate change can be strengthened in many areas of the budget, with european funds.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by catherine trautmann, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on access to and interconnection of electronic communications networks and associated facilities and directive 2002/20/ec on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services (com (2007) 0697) c6-0427/2007 2007/0247 (cod)) (a6-0321/2008), the report by pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the establishment of the european electronic communications markets authority (com (2007) 0669) c6-0428/2007 2007/0249 (cod)) (a6-0316/2008), the report by patrizia toia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the exploitation of the digital divide in europe: a common approach to the protection of consumers (com (2007) 0697) regulation (ec) no 2006/207 c6-0427/2007 2007/0248 (cod)) on the protection of individuals with regard to free movement of goods and services (com (2007) 0269) and the regulation (ec) no 2007-03308248 (cod) on the protection of individuals with regard to the free movement of goods and services (com (2007) 02680) and the report by malcolm harbourbourbour (com (2007) 0268) on the report by the committee on the use of the digital dividends in the digital single market: axis in europe: a single consumer digital single market: awarenessment for the protection of consumption of consumption of consumption of consumption of digital consumption of consumption of consumption (com (com/2008) (com/2008) (com (com (2008) 0260) ) (com (2008) 024
president of the council.
we are therefore dealing with the agency as the authority for electronic communications markets proposed by the commission and amended by the colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to the body of european telecommunications regulators (bert).
but in order not to waste it, i would like to thank colleagues malcolm harbour, catherine trautmann and pilar del castillo vera for the really excellent cooperation.
we have also adopted various proposals - including one of my own, which was put to the vote in the committee on industry, research and energy - which once again dealt in a little more detail with the question of how risk sharing could be achieved if firms were to make the appropriate investments and competitors were to have access to the networks from the outset.
but network security is increasingly affecting other areas of our daily lives: mobile communications, the internet, which is like a crack in the wall, spreading to other areas of our daily lives, ambient intelligence, the environment and intelligence that is transferred to the environment, whether it is to help the elderly or to control complex work processes.
nevertheless, we here in parliament are discussing day by day this cultural change, this climate change, which is affecting our economy, the transition of our economies away from fossil fuels to others.
it is again about chemicals and the protection of people and the environment from their potentially dangerous effects.
what we are going to adopt today is the basis for uniform environmental, health and safety information on potentially hazardous chemicals worldwide.
only by using uniform standards to identify and label the hazards of chemicals will the protection of health and the environment be made transparent and comparable worldwide.
the commission has already taken care, when drawing up the proposal, to maintain the very high level of protection of human health and the environment which already exists.
first of all, i should like to say that the compromise tabled by mrs sartori for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is very much welcomed by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
we have achieved an important step towards greater safety for people and the environment.
so i think we have sent an important signal today for greater safety for people and the environment.
today we're talking about a technology that could help us solve the environmental problems caused by motor vehicles.
we all agree that sustainable mobility is one of the key challenges we will have to solve in the coming years.
on the other hand, there can be no doubt that this right to individual mobility - that is to say, in plain language, the right to drive, to own and use a car - must be used in a way that does not destroy our environment, that is, we need cars that are environmentally friendly.
we do not yet know what the best technology is for sustainable mobility.
hydrogen can replace conventional fuels and significantly reduce the adverse environmental impact of road transport.
if hydrogen is produced with dirty energy, we are only shifting the problem.
uniform criteria are necessary to promote the spread of this technology while ensuring a high level of safety and environmental protection.
hydrogen is one of the energy sources of the future.
it has rightly been pointed out that it is not clear at this stage whether the use of hydrogen as a fuel for motor vehicles will ultimately be sustainable and environmentally sustainable.
this is particularly important in the context of the debate on co2 policy in motor vehicles and the desire to achieve a better understanding of the different technologies in order to know in the end which vehicle, which engine technology is best suited to the environment and to people.
this could be a way to reduce co2 emissions.
but the important thing is that - i am a member of the environment committee and was the shadow rapporteur there - we will then generate the hydrogen from renewable energy.
this also provides a way to store energy from renewable energy sources.
i am very pleased to note that this debate has indeed shown a broad consensus in several respects: firstly, a broad consensus that hydrogen technology is an interesting potential contribution to solving our energy problems; secondly, a consensus that hydrogen technology is also a potentially interesting option in road transport; and thirdly, a very broad consensus that the whole of hydrogen technology only makes sense if it has a positive ecological balance, i.e.
if it produces hydrogen from clean energy sources.
overall, the project aims to provide a clear basis for how hydrogen can indeed help to drastically reduce co2 emissions in our society.
hydrogen can be part of the answer to the challenges of climate change and reducing emissions.
hydrogen is a clean alternative to fossil fuels, and the use of hydrogen is only sustainable if it is derived from renewable energy sources or nuclear energy.
i'm fascinated by the idea of having the really completely carbon-free hydrogen cycle, where hydrogen is ultimately extracted from renewable energy and then evaporated into water.
that is why, ladies and gentlemen, my government has announced the costa rican consensus, an initiative to create mechanisms to forgive debts and to provide financial support to developing countries that invest more and more in environmental protection, education, health and housing for their people, and less and less in arms and soldiers.
every forest we cut down, every ton of carbon dioxide we put into the air, every river we pollute, brings us one step closer to the gates of extinction for our species, at the threshold of which, like dante's gates of hell, we must abandon all hope.
we have set ourselves the goal of becoming a carbon neutral country by the year 2021, when we celebrate 200 years of independent life.
we are leading an international crusade against global warming, and today i humbly ask you to join us.
instead of ad hoc sanctions, i would like to see an eu strategy that leads to a coherent and sustainable sanctions policy.
but a blanket approach of competition, liberalisation and privatisation will not achieve this, especially in the areas of public services: water, health, education, energy and passenger transport.
the commission's strategy of opening up markets in multilateral and increasingly bilateral negotiations is far less the right way to promote sustainable development in the world, because it is aimed primarily at global access for european transnational companies and far too little at small and mediumsized enterprises.
this is urgently required from the viewpoint of the competitiveness of our industry, as our companies’ competitors already benefit from a liberalised environment and lower sales costs.
transport should be shifted to environmentally friendly modes of transport in order to reduce not only accidents, congestion and noise, but also air pollution and landscape consumption.
the report also calls for the development of a european energy policy to promote the use of renewable energy sources, with the emphasis on wind and solar energy.
these communications are: firstly, the eu’s freight transport agenda, boosting the efficiency, integration and sustainability of freight transport in europe; secondly, the action plan for freight transport logistics; thirdly, towards a rail network giving priority to freight; and fourthly, the multiannual contract for rail infrastructure quality.
the major challenges presented by this growth, the fight against congestion and climate change, reductions in pollutant emissions and guaranteed security of the energy supply are more topical now than ever they have been.
i welcome the fact that the draft report is encouraging the commission to pursue a goods transport policy that places a greater emphasis on sustainability.
we cannot talk about sustainable transport on sundays and do the opposite from monday to friday.
it is also due to the conditions of the environment.
you must change these unfair conditions or you will not solve the climate and transport problems.
we must therefore avoid a lot of nonsense in europe about transport capacity, and then we must shift transport to environmentally friendly modes of transport and make it efficient so that we can safeguard mobility, the supply of goods to people as well, but also protect the environment, because that is the need of the hour.
without a healthy environment, neither we nor our children and grandchildren have the future we all want.
i welcome the fact that the environment committee has taken a very critical position on the action plan and has called for significant improvements.
we are pleased that the environmental report also has a green handwriting, especially in the field of nanotechnology.
the background to these debates is: what is the best way to view soil - as a fertile place for plant nutrition and the basis of life in an organic farming system with high co2 capture or as a pure support substance for plants in an agro-industrial production, controlled by oil, chemicals and genetic engineering, with the most dangerous climate influences?
soil pollution does not generally have any transboundary effects.
the same applies to the non-compliance with the energy charter, which was also signed by russia and should therefore be binding on russia.
to ask for further opinions now, after we have been discussing this for three years, there are inspection studies here in the house, the commission has dealt with the matter and we have held hearings on it, i think it is pointless, it is a waste of time.
it implies that we have here one of the rare cases where we harmonize substantive criminal law clearly outside the environmental field.
so we have to ask ourselves, what's wrong with our societies and what's wrong with the islamic environment that these people are becoming radical?
the package gives priority to the safety and quality of maritime transport while respecting the environment, and to improving the competitiveness of the european maritime sector.
in addition, such accidents have caused severe environmental disasters on the atlantic, mediterranean and black sea coasts.
the environmental damage was enormous, and the taxpayers, not the polluters, had to bear the cost.
in view of the need to combat climate change, to conserve biodiversity and to protect the rights of indigenous peoples, the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests is becoming increasingly important.
13 million hectares of tropical forests are cut down every year, and an estimated 20% of greenhouse gas emissions are due to this.
i would therefore like to emphasize not only the importance of the agreement itself and the fight against climate change, but also the question of the rights and privileges of parliament.
in view of the public interest in the conservation of biodiversity and the fight against climate change, i hope that the commission will at least now comply with our request to submit annual reports on the implementation of the tropical timber convention and its interaction with bilateral agreements.
we can help ensure that europe has a sustainable and secure energy supply, and at the same time we can do what we can to protect the climate.
on the other hand, there are so many things happening in the world that actually affect citizens in their daily lives, such as rising energy prices and the crisis in the financial markets.
equally important are strengthening and preserving citizens' rights, expanding research and responding to climate change.
with such traffic control systems, madam vice-president, we are not only making transport safer and cheaper, but we are also protecting the environment.
europe can do a lot to help india achieve sustainable development through knowledge and technology transfer.
thus it is that the ecumenical patriarchate – in keeping with our own sense of responsibility for the house, the oikos of the world and all who dwell therein – has for decades championed the cause of the environment, calling attention to ecological crises around the globe.
in our service to the environment, we have, to date, sponsored seven scientific symposia that bring together a host of disciplines.
while we strive to find answers to ecological concerns and crises, we also bring the participants into a more comprehensive sense of themselves as belonging to and relating to a greater whole.
every ecosystem on this planet is like a nation – by definition limited to a place.
but like every culture, every ecosystem will have an effect that goes beyond far beyond its natural – or in the case of cultures, national – boundaries.
and when we understand that every ecosystem is part of the singular ecosphere that is inhabited by every living breath that fills the world, then do we grasp the interconnectedness, the powerful communion of all life, and our true interdependency on one another.
as an institution, the ecumenical patriarchate has lived as a relatively small ecosystem within a much larger culture for centuries.
the origins of the turmoil we see today lie in the persisting global imbalances in the world economy, which created an environment of high availability of liquidity and poor assessment of risks.
inflation could, however, be at a turning point, as the impact of past increases in energy and food prices gradually fades in the coming months.
measures to strengthen competition in retail and energy markets and improve the functioning of our labour markets would be particularly valuable at this juncture.
the characteristics of the real economy have caught up with us all: without work, there is no saving, without saving, there is no investment, without investment, there is no sustainable growth.
i am sure that the prices can be adjusted downwards, but i think that almost everyone agrees that given the limited energy resources available and the increasing competition for the exploitation of these resources, the prices will be very high in the long term.
the current developments, including the problem of energy poverty, show that we have not yet sufficiently addressed this issue.
i would say that acute social problems must always be tackled socially because of high energy prices.
but we must ensure that our societies do not waste energy resources in a wasteful way.
the objective of energy saving and energy efficiency must be pursued much more rigorously than has been the case in the past.
i would like to encourage you, commissioner, to put your old proposals for saving and efficiency at the centre of the strategic energy review.
our health and eating habits are shaped by our social environment.
as different as people are, so also are their individual energy requirements, depending on age, sex, occupation and activity.
however, the concentration of ownership in the media system creates an environment that encourages the emergence of monopolies, creates barriers to market entry and leads to the standardization of media content.
the crisis in georgia, the financial crisis, the crisis in energy prices - all cry out for a strong europe!
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment.
you are also on the right track if you do not allow - and we support you - that the climate package, which can create jobs and enable sustainable economies, is used in the current situation against the financial crisis.
jean-claude juncker was right when he said: the financial crisis will pass, but the climate crisis will remain, unfortunately!
russia has the energy, europe has the technology.
the climate package will be adopted in co-decision with the european parliament.
in this matter of the energy-climate package, i know, i insist and i sign, that we will need the european parliament's commitment very much to get it.
i have not called into question the energy and climate package, but i have made a strong commitment to it, and i have not called into question the codecision procedure, but i am calling for it!
i would also like to say to you, mr cohn-bendit, that i think that a commission presidency, like a council presidency, committed as they are to defending the energy-climate package, deserves the support of the greens.
we do not agree on everything, but you greens are not going to fight a commission presidency and a council presidency that are totally committed to adopting the energy-climate package!
on the other hand, can this crisis and environmental protection be an opportunity for growth?
you call it green growth, i call it sustainable growth, that's indisputable.
the environmental package, which i hope will be voted unanimously in france, including by the socialists, shows that france is strongly committed to this direction.
i really believe that it would be a historic mistake for europe not to be at the meeting of the energy-climate package.
as much as i am sure that capitalism must be rebuilt, i can tell you, mr wurtz, that never has capitalism done so much damage to society, democracy and the environment as the collectivist system that you have supported for so many years.
the great ecological disasters, mr wurtz - listen to daniel cohn-bendit when he speaks of self-criticism!
- the great ecological disasters were not the result of the market economy but of the collectivist system.
the second question concerns the 'climate change package' and i would like to thank you, members, for your speeches and support.
first of all on the institutional question - i think president sarkozy has already made this very clear, but let me say this on behalf of the commission - we do not confuse respect for the well-established decision-making procedures, including the co-decision and the central role of the european parliament, with the need for a strong consensus between member states on a package as important as the climate and energy package.
and this is a job we have to do together, because i do believe that it would be dramatic for europe to abandon the ambition it has set for the fight against climate change.
of course, it is easy to imagine that president sarkozy would have acted with energy and imagination even without the hat of the president of the council, but he is president of the council and that is why his actions benefit the european union.
they know very well that the level of prosperity that we have in europe, which is still unusual for large parts of the world, the high level of social security, the unprecedented level of environmental protection, the technological progress that has been associated with it and, last but not least, the level of personal freedom that has been associated with all these achievements, have been built on the basis of the social market economy and not on the basis of socialist ideas.
a note on the climate package.
at a time when emissions trading will require, according to commission calculations, between eur 70 and 90 billion a year to be raised by those concerned, it cannot be seriously assumed that this whole structure would not be affected by the financial crisis and the crisis of the real economy.
i have noted, mr nassauer, that the climate package needs to be worked on.
sustainability not just risk maximisation with corresponding return maximisation , i.e.
energy security is one point.
iran, the middle east, climate change, terrorism and whatever else: we can't do without russia!
the interconnectedness in times of globalisation is much more extensive than we have discussed in energy issues so far.
it makes sense to start a meaningful development for these yards now and thus to offer the three cities of szczecin, gdańsk and gdynia a sustainable outlook.
the commission has the right to say that there is state aid, but that under the state aid we want to modernise these workplaces in an ecological way so that they have a long-term future and that the workers there can find good jobs in the long term.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the aim of the proposal is to increase the presence on the european market of low-energy, low-polluting vehicles, with the aim of reducing both energy consumption and emissions of co2 and other elements that can pollute, and these measures will benefit citizens living in large cities, who in turn represent the majority of the european population.
under the provisions of the proposed directive, public bodies and undertakings, but also undertakings providing a public passenger transport service, are required to include energy consumption, co2 emissions and pollutant emissions among the criteria for the selection of vehicles purchased through tendering procedures.
the decision to purchase a vehicle would therefore not only be based on the price of the vehicle in the future but also on the environmental costs of the vehicle over its lifetime.
the proposal also represents an important step forward in the community's energy, climate and environment policies.
the directive will introduce the parameters of energy consumption, co2 emissions and pollutant emissions in the procurement of procurement contracts.
the public sector in europe would therefore serve as an example, promoting more advanced innovative technologies in order to have a sustainable transport system in the future, and this seems to me to be a very clear message that can be sent by local public companies or those that produce local services in a sector as important as pollution reduction.
the proposal also introduces sustainable economics into public procurement for the supply of vehicles without imposing higher costs.
the directive is expected to lead in the long term to increased market penetration of clean, energy-efficient vehicles and to reduced costs associated with them through economies of scale.
as a result, energy efficiency will increase and co2 and pollutant emissions will decrease for all vehicles on the road in europe.
first of all, i would like to say that this draft report shows that environmental and climate protection is a concern of the whole of the european parliament, of all the committees of this house, but also of the commission and the council.
i therefore think that we can agree with mr jørgensen when he says that everyone in europe should be concerned with limiting emissions and that environmental and climate protection play an important role in the procurement of vehicles.
but environmental and climate protection must be a concern of the people, of the citizens of the european union itself, it must be an autonomous concern, and therefore also a concern of those who buy cars or buses in the european union.
i think there are a number of examples in many european countries where hydrogen-powered and low-carbon vehicles are already being bought without this directive, which means that there is already an environmental awareness.
and it is not, mr jørgensen, as you say, that the environmental impact will be particularly great.
the effect will be that the conditions for the calls for tenders will be relatively extensive and that in the end, however, national implementation will dominate the award and it is quite possible - at least according to the council's legal service - that the weighting of environmental effects will be adopted at only one per cent and thus the effect on the environment will be relatively small.
and that is a credit to the council and also to the shadow rapporteur on the environment committee, my friend karsten hoppenstedt.
i would remind you again that this directive unfortunately only affects 1% of the number of cars and 6% of the number of lorries, and unfortunately it does not bring much benefit to the environment.
the present commission proposal to promote energy-efficient vehicles is a re-issue of the original proposal which we rejected two years ago.
however, it should be noted that this text also has many criticisms, such as the lack of a legal impact assessment, the relatively small market shares of the vehicles concerned - this has already been said - and, last but not least, the mandatory integration of environmental criteria into the procurement procedure, in breach of the case law of the ecj.
given the small market share of publicly purchased vehicles - we are talking about 1% of cars and 6% of trucks - there can be no question of making a meaningful contribution to climate protection.
additional environmental criteria simply do not belong here.
i think that we cannot assume that there will be any significant impact on the environment.
we want to make every effort to ensure that we have a proper climate in europe.
we have not seen any improvement in the climate, and we do not expect any improvement in the reduction of bureaucracy in the near future.
the costs now incurred in this way would certainly have been a hundred times greater for climate protection if the funds were used to insulate public buildings.
its members have the sometimes thankless task of guaranteeing a sustainable view of the future for the people they represent.
in this regard, let me stress how important and significant it will be if the european year of intercultural dialogue could be expanded into a long-term, sustainable framework for promoting good governance of intercultural diversity, and i commend his excellency the president's words in this regard.
in other words, creating the necessary conditions for sustainable peace requires efforts of a different kind, aimed at generating a mind shift among divided communities.
we have not increased these payments on demand or at random, but in the budget lines which finance parliament's priorities: action against climate change, the social dimension in the sense of growth for more jobs, shaping globalisation and support for small and mediumsized enterprises, and in some lines which are aimed at the security of citizens.
we have no time to waste, we should not organize everything at the last minute.
on top of that, an additional reserve of some eur 16million for two specific policy areas, namely transport and environment, has also been reserved.
this, we think, undermines the commission’s ability to meet its obligations stemming from the public procurement directives, especially in the current environment.
our work so far has been marked by a very good climate of cooperation and i can assure you that the council is ready to continue this high-quality dialogue in order to reach an agreement on the 2009 budget that is balanced and satisfactory for all of us.
the work of the trade union institutions is particularly affected by this and continuous cuts in funding are simply not sustainable in the long term.
but even with regard to the global climate change challenge, our european budget is not in a position to respond adequately.
i would remind you of the great speech yesterday by president sarkozy, who pointed out that everything in the european union would have to change in the face of the economic crisis and the climate catastrophe.
we should also link energy production to environmental objectives in agricultural policy, and we should do more, as barroso announced yesterday, in research and development and, above all, in education policy.
it is quite clear that it is now that growth, employment, transeuropean networks, lifelong learning, climate protection, european transport networks and the protection of external borders must be shaped in the way we have described them.
mr president-in-office, i know that you cannot promise us anything concrete in this debate, but i assume that what you have said - that you perceive a climate of cooperation and that you want it - is meant seriously.
instead of rapidly tackling a common energy supply, creating a functioning common market, improving the general education system, finally bringing investors into the country through a credible policy, partisan bickering and boundless mistrust dominate the current politics.
the road to the eu requires, among other things, a determined fight against corruption, against organised crime, for transparency in privatisation, the creation of a common market, including and especially an energy market.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i am glad that we have made this possible, above all, for noise and pollutant emissions.
the committed and committed activist is now being criticised for his commitment to the environment, his fight against the dangers of aids and hiv and for his respect for human rights.
secondly, the explanatory notes on the global energy assessment are not on budget line 08 03 01, where they were added by mistake, but on line 08 05 01. amendment no 936 to row 08 03 01 therefore needs to be voted on without the global energy assessment explanations.
this concerns the agency for medicinal products, the agency for chemicals and chemicals, the aviation safety agency, the maritime safety agency, the railway agency, the environment agency, the centre for the promotion of vocational training, the food safety authority, the fisheries control authority and the community plant variety office, whose job lists are not explicitly included in the documents containing the amendments.
in the last two days they have discussed a whole range of issues, such as the environment, immigration, equality, the role of citizens, education and many other issues.
it should be noted that if this item is added, the oral question on the review of the recommendation on minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states will have to be moved to thursday's agenda tomorrow.
the european union must not engage in negotiations with russia's attempts to blackmail it in the energy sector and must clearly address human rights abuses.
budgetary policies must be coordinated; the report on economic and monetary union speaks of the need to deepen budgetary surveillance, to deepen the way in which fiscal and budgetary policies are coordinated - as mr langen said, also taking into account sustainability elements - as mrs berès said, taking into account the quality of public finances, taking into account that we have a system of rules which is the stability and growth pact revised in 2005, a remarkably useful revision now, because it has allowed us, in times of economic recovery, to make progress in fiscal consolidation, and the euro area ended 2007 almost in balance - for the first time in its history, with a deficit of 0.6 - 0.7% - but now it allows us to have sufficient flexibility for fiscal policy to contribute to supporting demand, as monetary policy should also do.
but we believe that the european central bank and the commission must be represented in a sustainable way at the g20 level, just as the eurogroup must be represented by the president of the eurogroup, who is modestly trying to steer the work of the finance ministers, whom mr sarkozy has pointed out are not up to the task, or by someone else.
the crisis also makes it very clear that excessive deficits, such as those in the united states, are not sustainable in the long term, that economic growth on a high note is not sustainable and that there is therefore no alternative to measures of strong fiscal consolidation.
it should be replaced by an integrated european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development.
i also agree with all those who have said that the stability and growth pact, as it is now, after the 2005 review, must be maintained, using the flexibility that we introduced in 2005, which we have discussed here on many occasions: a flexibility that allows us to maintain budgetary discipline, to maintain the rules of budgetary discipline, which allows us to anchor the sustainability objectives of our public accounts, but which, at the same time, allows us to make use of fiscal policy in a situation that requires an active policy from the point of view of taxation, of the instruments of fiscal policy.
fiscal stimulus must be coordinated to be effective and our budgetary discipline framework facilitates that coordination, but it also places limits on it so that the coordination of a fiscal stimulus does not put the sustainability of our public accounts at risk.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
we also mentioned that women are punished twice, because this wage inequality continues in different pension entitlements and different social standards, and we also have a tax and social system that punishes women in a sustainable way, because, for example, unmarried couples and dual-earner are still disadvantaged by many tax systems, such as in germany.
although we are talking about natural disasters, most of them are largely man-made, either because of the lack of action to combat climate change or because of the construction of river banks and the planting of monocots.
in order to meet the european union's agreed energy and climate targets, it is obvious that one of the most crucial issues is the reduction of co2 emissions.
we have three objectives in environmental and energy policy.
without ccs technology, without clean coal technology, this particular energy source will have no future.
this is why - and we say this quite explicitly - a majority in parliament also considers that financial support for clean coal technology is essential for europe's energy and climate policy objectives.
the proposal of the industry committee is therefore very concrete, to support the realisation of at least 12 demonstration plants with funds from the 7th framework programme for research, but also by taking pre-emptive measures on emission allowances from the emissions trading scheme.
climate change is at the top of our list.
i know that we might come back tomorrow on a compromise on this issue, but i would emphasise that money will certainly be needed, as it will be for biodiversity and for the milk axes that we have been putting into the system.
- the european parliament has voted in favour of continuing to finance a totally outdated energy strategy.
ccs is designed to make climate-damaging production processes appear 'climate-friendly'.
however, this does not prevent or reduce co2 production, as is the case with renewable energy.
this money would be better spent on research into more efficient use of renewable energy.
this means that these funds are withdrawn from less-favoured regions and their sustainable development plans.
with his cdu colleague ehler, a brandenburger is giving money to vattenfall, the fifth largest european energy company, so that it can develop further lignite coal mining in lausitz (brandenburg/saxony), which threatens the resettlement of other villages.
the energy-intensive ccs technology reduces this by another 10 to 15%.
the handling of economic and financial issues must not be at the expense of other global challenges, which also require a collective effort, namely the achievement of the millennium development goals, energy security, the fight against climate change, food security, the rule of law, the fight against terrorism, poverty and disease.
i am thinking above all of efforts to encourage training and retraining, to invest more heavily in innovation, interconnectivity and the transformation of europe into a low-carbon economy.
i am thinking in particular of the need to adapt certain sectors of our economy to the objectives which are also ours to combat climate change.
it will be a wonderful opportunity to show that the agenda against climate change is not an agenda against economic growth.
it is essential to re-establish a climate of trust.
we must also act with a broad vision and take into account the keynesian aspects that can be linked to the fight against climate change, as president watson has indicated.
finally, we must see, and i would like to conclude on this, that the crisis must be an opportunity not to slow down, not to be frivolous, but on the contrary, an opportunity to react more quickly and to remain ambitious about what our objectives are both in terms of development and in terms of the environment and the fight against climate change.
i am talking mainly about the issue of combating climate change and sustainable development.
i would like to sincerely commend the european parliament for the immense work it is doing on the climate and energy package.
europe has been the one to launch the global debate on combating climate change.
therefore, in the response to the economic crisis, it must be demonstrated that programmes to combat climate change can also be part of the economic response.
i would not like to see this opposition that sometimes appears between those who defend the economy or industry on the one hand and those who defend the sustainable development agenda on the other.
let us not forget that we have big meetings like the one in copenhagen next year to better deal with common issues with them, such as energy security, the fight against climate change and emigration.
the president-elect, as a candidate, has made very clear statements, for example, on the fight against climate change, or on a more multilateral vision.
they have been a beacon of light, proving to citizens the validity and effectiveness of the european dimension in ensuring their economic, social and environmental well-being, in protecting our interests and at the same time in affirming our values.
you mentioned the climate package, which is due to be adopted by december.
with this money, the world's worst poverty would have been eliminated and the climate saved!
a new world financial order must promote social statehood, halt the process of impoverishment and promote ecologically sustainable economies.
for months, european industry associations have been mobilizing against our european climate and energy strategy.
this is by no means abandoned in the face of the financial crisis, but rather the industry has begun to use the financial crisis to put even more pressure on consistent climate and energy policies.
if you look at the current trilogues, the climate policy negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament, you will see that i am right.
i would be in favour of this parliament finally deciding to support those who, like mr dimas or mr michel, are actually advocating sustainability strategies.
it was part of the simplification of the business environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the united states to take action.
but the most climate-friendly car we want in europe will be useless if it is in the shop window and not on the road.
in my view, commissioner, as the person who founded the cars 21 strategic group, you should first of all take responsibility for the failure to make the european automobile industry truly sustainable.
how can we say that the commission, and you in particular, commissioner, have done nothing to prevent the implementation of the strategic objectives resulting from the volatility of oil prices due to the finiteness of oil and from the requirements of climate protection?
if we really want all this, we must also support our farmers so that europe - in one of the most climate-friendly zones in the world - can produce healthy food in the future.
the war in the caucasus, the use of cluster bombs by both the georgian and russian sides, is a call to us not to waste any more time.
we must take long-term measures, despite the economic and financial crisis we are going through, to ensure that this is sustainable and we must also, of course, take account of the consequences of this profound demographic change on the different forms of work organisation.
we can understand the lisbon agenda in a simple way, going towards a knowledge-based society and being concerned about sustainability, whether it be in relation to social security, the environment or the economy.
what we have learnt from this crisis is that even the profits have to be clearly sustainable.
so it is important that in this context we are aware of all the possible aspects of sustainability – sustainability of the planet on which we live, between living beings on the planet, between us humans and between generations, which is very much the essence of the demographic question which we are discussing today.
however, for ‘agriculture and natural resources’, ‘cohesion’, ‘research, energy and transport’, ‘external aid, development and enlargement’, and ‘education and citizenship’ the court concludes that payments are still materially affected by errors, although to different degrees.
we must also learn to distinguish between fraud and waste.
but that wasn't fraud, that was waste.
if the beneficiaries of the funds identify more strongly with the sustainable prospect of success of their projects, there will also be less abuse and less work for olaf's fraud department.
the agenda is very full, as it concerns the future of the lisbon treaty, europe's response to the international economic and financial situation, the fight against climate change and the energy package.
as regards the energy-climate package, mr president, we will have a debate in this house tomorrow.
i would like to thank the european parliament again, on behalf of the council, for its extremely constructive attitude in the dialogue we are having on the energy-climate package.
we must take two things into account: the first is to be sufficiently flexible with regard to countries which, given their geographical situation, given their economic development, have to make efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and i am thinking in particular of our friends in central and eastern europe; the second is to find, in the light of the economic crisis, the necessary flexibilities for the industrial sectors which are most affected by these energy consumption problems.
europe is at a crossroads on a number of institutional, economic and energy issues.
the european dimension has proved its usefulness and relevance thanks to the joint commitment and close cooperation of our three institutions, and also, i should like to say, thanks to the energy and competence of the french presidency.
because we are facing many challenges, including three major challenges, which can only be met if the three major european institutions - the parliament, the council and the commission - continue to work together, each playing its full role in pursuing common objectives: first, to take decisive action, and to do so without delay, to put europe on the path to economic recovery, to respond to the crisis in the real economy; secondly, also to demonstrate that europe is empowered to become the world's first low-carbon economy and to show that we are capable of holding the global leadership position in the fight against climate change; and thirdly, to set out a roadmap for the implementation of the lisbon treaty.
europe can prove that it is able to: provide the coordination needed to ensure that everyone throws his or her full strength into the battle; dprovide, at the appropriate scale, the fiscal stimulus required to have a real impact, while ensuring the medium- and long-term sustainability of public expenditure; to enable the intelligent use of short-term tools to boost long-term competitiveness by striking two strikes at the same time: stimulation must both limit the impact of the crisis on households, workers and businesses in the short term, but it must also prepare the transition to a less energy-intensive economy, while supporting reforms for european competitiveness in the medium and long term; and to place all our action under the sign of the major imperatives of solidarity and social justice, which must first be exercised for the benefit of the most vulnerable in times of crisis.
i think the commission has made the right proposal when it says that all the funds not spent should be used to deepen certain programmes and launch certain european actions, whether for interconnections, innovation, climate-friendly energy or a policy of economic recovery which is also fruitful in the medium term.
the second item on the european council agenda is climate change.
i know how much time and attention this parliament has devoted to the climate change energy package.
we will need you to play this role on the climate and energy package too.
i am confident that we will be able to conclude work in good time and show that climate action, energy security and economic growth can and must be pursued in a mutually supportive way.
a week before the european parliament delegation departs for poznań, it is time to assess whether what the commission is now repeatedly announcing is really true, namely that the response to the crisis in the real economy and the crisis in the financial markets will be linked to an ambitious climate change strategy.
i would like to say again that everything the commission has said so far on this subject is being refuted in the current negotiations on the climate package.
the signal given by the car dealership closure at the beginning of the week is that europe has promised to take ambitious action to protect the climate and save the world.
we can move on to emissions trading.
we know that emissions trading is the most important instrument of european climate policy, that auctioning is the key to its operation.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, and it is hoped that the council will be able to take them up in the next few months.
i think there are still too many hesitations in the european council and the european commission, who assume that sustainability strategies or even aggressive climate action would be at the expense of jobs.
and the same forces that are holding that back are, in our view, holding back - we greens are also thinking about jobs - the development of sustainable production methods and sustainable economic systems and sustainable new products, and they are building our way out of europe into the future markets of the world.
i want to try to describe for our group a larger framework within which we must place this debate on the climate package.
he was right to say that climate change is a central challenge for all of us: for the council of heads of state and government, for the european parliament and for the commission.
we're not going to solve all the climate challenges of this century now.
without this involvement, even with europe's best efforts, it will not be possible to combat climate change.
we are behind the 2020 targets, but we have a responsibility not only for the climate, but also for preserving jobs and the competitiveness of our economy.
renewable energy is about taking advantage of all the possibilities, but not excluding technological innovation in the first place.
and the biggest piece of it, emissions trading, is to avoid job displacement.
the question is, in fact, whether environmental protection, climate protection and economic and industrial policy are compatible.
i think it is the result of mismanagement, of wrong industrial policies, but certainly not the result of having made a forward-looking environmental policy with the car industry.
what we are now allowing with this regulation - and this is something that is both heartening and astonishing - is that the average emissions of the european car fleet in 2012 will be higher than they are today.
at the heart of the financial crisis and the climate crisis, the poverty in the world is due to our overconsumption and the excessive greed of the industrialized countries.
in this century, no one will remember the phase of climate policy or crisis policy in europe.
ccs storage is just one small wheel in the big picture of the climate package.
the eu's climate policy is about to undergo its reality check.
emissions trading is supposed to reduce emissions, but it will increase costs.
i am convinced that we are vastly overestimating ourselves if we believe that we can significantly influence the world's climate through policy action.
in the 21st century, the societies that will thrive will be those that intelligently answer two questions: where does our energy come from, and how do we use it efficiently?
i think the climate package is on the right track.
i would like to use my two minutes today to speak on the subject of emissions trading, because that is what i care about most.
barack obama has unveiled his plan for new energy for america.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, increasing the share of renewable energy, reducing energy consumption, reducing oil consumption, introducing one million plug-in hybrid vehicles by 2015. these are all projects, objectives, which are familiar to us and which can only be supported.
the american government is putting together a stimulus program, $500 to $700 billion, and says that a lot of that money will go into the development of renewable energy and green technology.
if i look at emissions trading, we're taxing our industry with 70 billion euros a year.
i am only in favour of a regulation in the climate package which ensures that we do not have a carbon leakage and that our domestic industry is also preserved in europe.
but we should do it in such a way that the tools for emissions trading are such that the industry has a level playing field.
for example, at the moment, emissions trading is not negotiated on the basis of the opinion of parliament, but only on the basis of the decision of a single committee.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mr von wogau, and will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
we regret above all that there was no proper first reading in parliament, where the other committees which worked on the directive, such as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, should have been involved.
i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the problem of the environment.
unfortunately, we have not succeeded in banning all allergenic fragrances, as we have proposed in the committee on the environment.
that is why i think informal trilogues - as they are so disparagingly called, whether on the climate package or on toys or other legislation - are not suited to a modern parliament.
the new emission standards for heavy duty vehicles are about reducing pollutants, not reducing greenhouse gases.
nitrogen oxides are particularly dangerous for infants, children and the elderly because they cause ozone to form close to the ground.
the strategy calls for further reductions in pollutant emissions across the transport sector and beyond, if the eu is to meet its air quality targets.
we want to minimize the harmful effects on human health and protect the environment as a whole.
the euro 6 emission limits, which form part of this overall strategy, will bring about a further appreciable reduction in soot and nitrogen oxides emissions compared with the euro 5 phase, which started on 1 october this year.
in addition, additional requirements are introduced for the monitoring of heavy-duty vehicle emissions in real driving conditions and for access to repair and maintenance information.
other the commission declares that the technical measures implementing the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines with respect to emissions from heavy duty vehicles (euro vi) and on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information will be transmitted to the european parliament and the council under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny before 31 december 2009.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security.
the new euro 6 standard will reduce particulate matter emissions from diesel trucks and buses by 66% compared to the euro 5 standard, and nitrogen oxides (nox) emissions from petrol vehicles will be reduced by a further 80%.
we are again working together to bring legislation to a successful conclusion at first reading, thereby creating planning security for industry and good environmental protection.
we are thus making a good contribution to the protection of the environment and the health of european citizens without imposing an excessive burden on the producers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the pollution of the air.
the emissions balance can be improved more quickly and easily than by expensive engine tuning.
many colleagues have said that environmental standards will certainly increase sales and can do so, because this particular sector of industry is in crisis.
mrs krupa said that the climate and energy package, but also this legislation, will wipe out small producers from the market, will destroy them.
and then there is the energy-climate.
on energy and climate, let's get this straight.
it would have been foolish for europe to abandon its own objectives when a new president of the united states of america is setting ambitious environmental objectives for the world's leading power.
irresponsible, because if europe does not unite on the commission's energy-climate package, how can we imagine that europe will be heard by the indians, the chinese, the brazilians, all the countries of the world which now have to take care of the planet's environmental balances.
i wanted to ensure that voluntary action on environmental matters was not at the expense of a social policy that would blow up these new members of the union.
to the fundamentalists, i would say that the issue for me has never been not to impose environmental obligations on poland, hungary and others, but not to put these countries in a situation of social explosion and never to put them in a situation where they have to choose between environmental protection and growth.
it is a new growth, a sustainable growth, a green growth that we have proposed to them but which avoids an explosion of prices or consequences for polish workers, hungarian workers, workers in the east, which no democratic country in the world could support.
i accepted the unanimous vote for one simple reason: the environmental choice europe is making must not be a choice made, it must be a choice claimed.
what credibility would the energy-climate package have had if it had been ratified by a majority when everyone is well aware that unanimity was the guarantee that our political commitments would be respected?
in discussions with my fellow heads of state and government, i must honestly say, mr president, that the vigilant presence of a parliament committed to getting an agreement on the energy-climate package has been a powerful mobilizing factor for heads of state or government who were less eager to get it done than others.
anyway, today i bring you - you can do what you want with it - the unanimous agreement of the 27 heads of state on the energy-climate package.
in addition to other important conclusions, particularly in the areas of security and defence policy, the union for the mediterranean and the new eastern partnership, i would like to highlight three areas in particular: the lisbon treaty, economic recovery and energy and climate.
following the legislative proposals presented by the commission on 23 january 2008, and on the basis of a strong contribution from the european parliament, 27 member states unanimously committed themselves to transforming europe into a green and low-energy economy for future generations.
the agreement on our energy and climate policy remains true to the objective of achieving the '3 times 20%' by 2020. this historic breakthrough, if confirmed tomorrow in this house, is a victory for the partner europe, that is to say for the european institutions which have worked hand in hand with the member states in a constructive spirit and with a firm common will to succeed.
it was around the commission's proposals on climate and energy, starting with hampton court in autumn 2005, passing through the political agreement on targets in march 2007 under the german presidency, and culminating in the legislative proposals of january 2008, that member states were able to reach a unanimous agreement.
finally, in the success of partner europe, i would also like to pay tribute to the very remarkable work that the european parliament has done over the last few months, particularly on the 'climate package'.
the final compromise as it emerged from this weekend's trilogues bears the hallmark of this commitment, whether on the emissions trading system, the allocation of effort, renewable energy or carbon capture and storage, where the arguments put forward by your assembly have raised the volume of allowances available for such financing to 300 million tonnes.
europe will be the first global player to agree to legally binding rules to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 while clearly committing to 30% under an international agreement.
together we have taken a number of crucial decisions to give the european union the means to succeed in the age of globalisation, to protect citizens from the fallout of an economic and financial crisis, to create the conditions for a return to sustainable growth and also to lead the efforts for a reform of the financial system and for global governance.
on climate change, we now need to turn our attention to the road to copenhagen.
with regard to the use of unspent money from the community budget, the european council has given the commission the green light to propose a reallocation for trans-european energy interconnection and broadband infrastructure projects and to promote energy efficiency.
we envisage an amount of eur 5 billion for 2009 and 2010. an important sum will be reserved for the demonstration projects in carbon capture and storage, complementing financing under the emissions trading system.
the french presidency has played a crucial role in short-term crisis management, as well as in putting europe on the path towards long-term recovery and a return to sustainable growth, but much remains to be done over the coming months.
yes, the climate package is a great success!
this is a success of my group because we as the social democratic group have made great efforts to ensure that there is a balance between the economic necessities which we cannot ignore and the ecological obligations which we must meet.
or should we fear that now that the amendment is coming, the ets emissions trading system will be postponed?
we are not going to allow the next council to come and say: "you have made the climate package so beautiful".
i would also like to say that, after speaking of germany, which supported us, and of great britain, i appreciated the support of italy, which was not so obvious, for the energy-climate package, and i am speaking under the supervision of the president of the commission.
first of all, as regards the ambition of the package: i would like to stress that the ambition of the climate package, which the commission has presented, is retained in the final compromise approved by the european council.
of course, the commission has presented an ambitious package, we knew that from the beginning, but i can say that in the spirit of compromise we have managed to maintain these great objectives of the climate package.
we are not in the same situation and i think that a little caution would be useful if we also think in terms of medium and long-term sustainability.
that is why, for example, on climate change, these were proposals that the commission had already made a few years ago.
the council has been successful with the climate package.
we will have to make a difficult trade-off between the climate policy objectives which we fully support and the inevitable burden we must impose on the economy.
we all know that conventional short-term programmes are a waste of money, increase public debt and have no long-term effect.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
on this basis, we can work together to advance renewable energy, commit member states to developing advanced technologies and thus achieve our common goal of at least 20% renewable energy by 2020. the only point i do not like very much about the overall compromise is the commission's proposal to use flexible instruments.
this directive now offers a great opportunity to give new impetus to the necessary energy transition in europe.
we know that the dramatically accelerating pace of climate change requires a clear focus on renewable energy, on energy efficiency.
the ep has significantly improved the ecological criteria for biofuels and added social criteria.
i have to say, madam president, the compromise on the emissions trading system, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, clearly bears the signature of the european parliament.
the review of the emissions trading system and the overall climate package are the most ambitious and far-reaching package of measures to protect the world's climate ever launched.
but we must not rest on what we have achieved, what we are voting on tomorrow, but we must look closely at how the climate is changing and what economic consequences this will have for us.
that is why i am asking the commission to launch a sort of star report for the european union, to look closely at the financial consequences of climate change for the european union and the measures we must take in the future to overcome this global crisis.
it is about changing the co2 policy and especially the sustainability policy in this world.
it's painful, but if we don't have these resources, we can't address the world's big carbon sinks -- and they do exist, you can't talk away -- can't address them.
carbon leakage is a gateway to a liberation.
i have therefore my doubts, but i would like to endorse the report because, in retrospect, it is not just about co2 but about sustainability.
the epp-ed group welcomes the agreement reached by the council and parliament in the trilogue not to extend the new rules of the revision of the general emissions trading system to aviation but to leave it to the new, not even published, specific rules for aviation.
the specific ets rules for aviation, agreed by parliament and the council in the summer and to be applied as from 1 january 2012, are the first rules in the world to include aviation in an emissions trading system and thus to oblige airlines to limit the environmental impact of aviation.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in fact, global solutions, or at least partial solutions, for a sensible environmental protection of air transport in the world are always better than overly strict regulations that apply only in the eu.
- madam president, the agreement on the climate package is a modest achievement.
keyword eastern enlargement, where emissions are lower in absolute terms.
the eu is now playing its own member states against each other: through the energy mix, derogations and clever negotiation, some member states have an advantage over others.
german energy suppliers may soon be able to produce electricity in poland instead of at home, if they are not bought by the french.
governments, the council and the european commission are called upon to ensure efficiency in environmental protection as well as in economic growth.
- the mr president, the compromise agreement reached on the capture and storage of carbon dioxide is very satisfactory.
the text provides for strict obligations for the storage of carbon dioxide in order to ensure high levels of protection of the environment and human health, without placing an excessive administrative or financial burden on undertakings.
on the question of financing, which was of particular concern to the european parliament, chris davis said that up to 300 million units of emission allowances under the emissions trading system directive would be made available from the newcomers reserve for the development of innovative carbon capture and storage technologies and for innovative renewable energy sources.
this amount is expected to be sufficient for the planned construction and operation of up to 12 carbon capture and storage projects in the european union.
the outcome of the negotiations on the proposed legal framework and the financing of carbon capture and storage projects will pave the way for an environmentally sound technology that has the potential to make a significant contribution to reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
the commission is not the whole discussion and report on ccs is a small cog in the big wheel of the climate package, but it is a very important and essential part because ccs can be considered a transitional technology for the next 50 to 80 years.
the results of the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety were generally positive.
as has been said before: we have a representative in china who is estimated to use coal as an energy source for at least 60% of the next 50 years.
co2 is not a poison, co2 is not explosive, but co2 has an unpleasant property: when it enters the atmosphere in large quantities, it changes our climate.
i think we have found a good compromise, at least on the part of the link with the emissions trading system.
the emissions trading system ensures that funds are made available for ccs, and ccs also ensures that we can make progress in the emissions process to reduce co2 and achieve our targets.
i would like to recall a theme from the world climate conference in poznan, because it seems absurd to me that the commitment shown here to promote a technology that does not yet work.
the rapporteur and parliament have adjusted this art as much as possible and i believe that with the prospect of the 95 grams, the details of which will be reviewed in 2013 but which are now clearly displayed, manufacturers now have visibility and they will be able to incorporate technology to achieve this in 2020. the actual emissions from the existing fleet are currently unknown.
- the mr president, the proposed legislation on carbon dioxide and cars will for the first time set binding emission targets for the automotive industry.
these include the gradual adoption of the targets between 2012 and 2015, a lower fine for the first 3 grams of exceedance by the manufacturer by 2018 and the provision for taking into account eco-innovations, which are not currently taken into account when measuring emissions in the test cycle.
the proposal to compromise on a long-term basis by setting a long-term target for emissions from all new cars of 95 grams per kilometre in 2020 compensates for these losses.
by incorporating this target, the legislation will achieve about one third of the reductions needed in sectors outside the emissions trading system, about as much as we had originally estimated for the year 2020. the compromise reached benefits both the environment and consumers, who will save money on lower fuel bills.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the commission is not this part of the climate package is one of the most important parts.
it is regrettable that the minister for the environment, mr borloo, has not supported mr dimas more strongly against the long-ago heads of state from germany and especially from italy.
it has not addressed the climate change or the energy crisis, and we are failing to put constructive pressure on this again well into the next decade.
we must ask ourselves whether europeans are really serious about their ambition to protect the climate if they do not dare to take a more active stance on fuel-eating cars and the car as a status symbol in europe than we are doing with this directive.
if you look at what we voted on in the davies report and also in the cars 21 report, where we wanted to start this legislation in 2015, the substance of the commission proposal has been largely preserved, and there is a balance between social, environmental and economic criteria.
i regret that the report does not provide any incentives to curb emissions.
i think this is the right way to tackle climate change, even in times of economic crisis.
i am interested in promoting climate protection, but not at the expense of individual eu member states.
this is important and should be emphasized when, i hope, the climate and energy package is voted, especially since the completion of this internal market is a condition for the achievement of our objectives in this area.
the importance which the french presidency of the union attaches to the successful completion of this package, a fundamental element of european energy policy, cannot therefore be called into question, nor can the importance of respecting the agreed deadline, namely reaching an agreement before the end of the parliamentary term.
i would remind you that despite the excellent and very thorough work of the slovenian presidency, the texts which were the subject of a general orientation, in the absence of an opinion from parliament at the council meeting on 6 june, left two essential provisions open, that concerning investments by third countries in the energy sector and that concerning conditions of fair competition.
it is very important that we conclude the debate on the internal energy market during this legislature.
thirdly i would like to thank the french presidency because, with all the workload on energy and climate change package, they have really delivered what they promised on the internal market package.
i would like to thank mrs niebler for her patience in the trialogues, because we reached the first agreement partly thanks to your hard work, so i apologise and i hope we will not go on into the night during the discussions on the internal energy market.
from the commission side i promise that we will work hard to find an acceptable compromise, because from the commission point of view it is crucial that the european union is strong on the internal energy market.
we have been discussing the climate package all day today, and tomorrow the vote will take place.
the forecast is that there will be a broad agreement on this climate package.
the whole package on climate change, the lofty objectives contained in this package, can only be achieved if we also take a big step forward in terms of network and infrastructure development.
if we all work together in the same constructive way as we did on the climate package, we will achieve that.
i do not want to wake up at 4.40 a.m. on a saturday to discuss the climate package.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i think it is very good that the energy market package is back on the table and i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the european parliament voted with a very, very impressive majority against the third way, as agreed by angela merkel and nicolas sarkozy, as regards the internal market in electricity.
it has often been claimed that we could also make energy cheap.
i am now expressly in favour of my group resuming the further discussions on this energy market package as soon as possible in january - i do not know what was said earlier because i was unfortunately late.
because i believe that the whole energy and climate strategy cannot work and cannot be perfect if we do not develop the market in this way in accordance with the political objectives that we have formulated in the climate and energy package.
we have thus succeeded in providing one billion more for food aid, for the poorest of the poor, and hopefully for a sustainable agricultural policy in the poorest countries.
we will also spend a little more on small and medium-sized enterprises - very important for economic development - and a little more on climate protection.
we need to reduce emissions significantly.
we need to invest more in renewable energy and much more in research.
we need to link them to green energy production.
and we need to finally understand that we need to link growth with environmental protection and climate protection.
my group the greens in the european parliament thinks that more environmental taxes are needed.
the second element: we are prepared to ensure the planned revision on the basis of the right projects and the necessary procedures and also to put broadband cabling in the less-favoured rural areas on the rails as a complementary measure to all other priorities, with a focus on the interconnection of energy networks in the spirit of solidarity in the lisbon treaty in energy policy.
more payments for action against climate change and more payments for the social dimension in terms of creating more and better jobs and supporting smes.
the issue of emissions trading is the most important industrial policy decision for years, if not decades.
for example, that we leave climate policy almost entirely to the council through a simplified procedure?
these are more or less his words:‘perhaps the european parliament was thinking of the work i did in the areas of aids and the environment, because what i did in terms of human rights was very far from sufficient and i will need to redouble my efforts.’ he also said this sakharov prize was very important for china and he was confident that the future would prove him right.
until 2004, hu jia devoted most of his activity to the problems of aids and the environment.
we are full of energy for china to become a country at peace.
i give the following explanation of vote on behalf of the cdu group of baden-württemberg: we strongly support efforts to significantly reduce the very likely human contribution to climate change.
we have not, however, accepted the compromise reached at the weekend between the heads of state or government on the european emissions trading system.
according to various studies, the climate package is costing the european economy and citizens between €70 and €100 billion, and it threatens to relocate entire industries to other parts of the world through carbon leakage.
the agreement on the climate package is a modest achievement.
the eu has set itself a reduction target of 20% compared with 1990. we have already achieved almost half of this: the keyword is eastern enlargement, where emissions are lower in absolute terms.
the eu is now playing its own member states against each other: through the energy mix, derogations and clever negotiation, some member states have the advantage.
german energy suppliers may soon be able to produce electricity in poland instead of at home, if they are not bought by the french.
governments, the council and the european commission are called upon to ensure efficiency in environmental protection as well as in the economy and growth.
− my 'no' is not a rejection of efficient emissions trading through auctioning, is not a rejection of eu climate targets or ccs funding.
but for my region of brandenburg, the text in question means the imposition of unfair competition with eastern or central european countries and higher energy price increases than are necessary to achieve the climate protection objectives.
we need coal for our energy mix to ensure the security of supply for our citizens, and we want to see coal used in a climate-friendly way in the future through ccs technology.
−declaration of the csu europe group: the eu has set itself ambitious climate targets.
the aim is to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. these climate targets must not be shaken.
in all our efforts to protect the climate, we must also aim to formulate clear legislation to ensure planning certainty for our economy.
the eu emissions trading directive put to the vote today does not meet any of these requirements: certain industries may be exempted from the auctioning of co2 allowances.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
- i strongly support efforts to reduce the likely human contribution to climate change.
we have not, however, agreed to the negotiated compromise on the european emissions trading system.
this is all the more unacceptable given the high financial burden that this legislation will place on europe's citizens: according to various studies, the climate package will cost between eur 70 and 100 billion, and it threatens to relocate entire industries to other parts of the world.
the aim is to achieve this target by 2015. the commission also proposes to allow for the introduction of a maximum of seven grams for 'eco-innovations' such as solar roofs or energy-efficient air conditioning systems.
this is an unnecessary and exorbitant burden on the automotive industry compared to the co2 prices that apply in the context of the emissions trading system.
today we awarded the sakharov prize to hu jia, who is fighting for human rights and the environment in china.
or the experience of member states calculating their payments to the european union with great care, but spending this money is a waste of money and even makes it easy for fraudsters, for example by the fact that it still takes an average of 36 months for irregularities to be reported to the european union in the first place.
we had a similar situation yesterday in the emissions trading business.
that is why we as the european union must act with much more energy.