it is clear that with so many cars, increasing mobility and a growing desire for even more people to have the opportunity to drive, the problem of emissions is a key problem that we are going to have to deal with.
but co2 is destructive to the climate, and that is why it is important that we do what we can to reduce co2 emissions.
for years there have been voluntary agreements between the commission and the car industry to limit the co2 emissions.
but i would have liked to see the social dimension play a more prominent role in relation to energy prices, food prices and local involvement.
i want to talk about a small corner of environmental policy.
the initiatives of malmö city in the field of energy saving and the use of environmentally friendly transport are promising.
the waste product of a hydrogen car is pure water and nothing else.
it will reduce pollution dramatically with fewer respiratory diseases and less corrosion on our old buildings as a result.
they are often key players in a host of environmental cases.
a policy that integrates environmental sustainability into the general conditions of the market and ensures free access for developing countries to eu markets on fair terms.
we support the rapporteur's views on market instruments and risk management when we talk about crises, infectious diseases, animal welfare and the environment, modulation and degressivity.
the delegation considers that, for environmental reasons in particular, it is necessary to introduce a compulsory 20% modulation and to strengthen the cross-compliance system.
thirdly, in line with the bali road map, it has proposed reinforcing support for the environment and the sustainable management of natural resources in developing countries.
the eu has a common energy and climate policy, but there is no common funding to support this policy.
we must find the right balance between environmental considerations and the need to produce enough food to meet the demand that exists.
the environmental gains we have made must be maintained, but we have plenty of opportunities to maintain the environmental gains while increasing our production.
china's enormous demand for raw materials and energy is driving chinese investment, without much concern for the healthy development of society.
the ninth cop on biodiversity could hardly have come at a better time.
in the last few weeks, a great deal has been said and written about biofuels, and let us be clear: biofuels must not be produced at the expense of biodiversity.
we are currently discussing the commission's proposal for a directive to promote the use of renewable energy sources, including biofuels.
parliament must ensure that strict criteria are set for the environmental sustainability of the production of this fuel.
we're not going to get anywhere in the fight against global warming if we reduce co2 emissions from cars and at the same time increase co2 emissions, because we're cutting down forests and plants for gasoline and releasing large amounts of co2 from the ground.
the bonn meeting will be a great opportunity to highlight the importance of linking biofuel production to sustainability requirements in the eu and beyond.
in 2002, the parties committed themselves to significantly reduce biodiversity loss by 2010 at global, regional and national levels.
the united nations convention on biological diversity is the global framework for the protection of biodiversity.
the eu must also do better in protecting biodiversity.
nevertheless, the commission and the member states must press for greater protection of biodiversity, especially in forest and agricultural areas, as these areas are particularly vulnerable now that more and more biofuels are being produced.
how do we ensure that it is not an either/or when it comes to biodiversity and biofuels?
if the eu is to live up to the many fine words about our climate and environmental goals, it is essential that we politicians take responsibility and make the difficult choices on behalf of our constituents.
one of the effective means we have is to limit the consumption that is harmful to the environment by making the polluter pay.
we can easily go further in controlling polluting consumption by using even more restrictive financial means, and let me say that i simply do not understand why we cannot combine co2 taxes with an emissions trading system.
using environmentally sound pricing is an effective way of using the market in environmental policy.
but the best thing to do is to keep these market-based instruments free of the other considerations if they are to be really effective in the fight to save the environment, the climate and nature.
we will not compromise on sustainability, either socially or environmentally, and so insist that achieving the 10% target requires that it can be done sustainably.
we are therefore prepared to revise the target if it is found that it cannot be achieved in a sustainable way.
however, we do not believe that the discussion of the commission's annual policy strategy is the right place to make this decision, which should be taken in the negotiations on the eu's climate package, including the renewable energy directive.
also, i thank you for the support on several amendments on f-gases, on the climate, pesticides and drinking water, transport, nitrate in ecological sausages.
i must say that the rapporteur for the legal affairs committee, mr nassauer, the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, the fictitious rapporteurs, all worked very hard, and constructively, with the council presidency and the commission, to find in the informal trilogue the compromise which is before you today.
it is true that effective environmental protection requires the effective implementation of the entire community policy.
but even without this approximation of the level of penalties, the directive will make a significant contribution to more effective environmental protection, in particular through its deterrent effect.
the member states will agree on the definitions of environmental offences, on the scope of the liability of undertakings for such offences, and on the need to provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties.
the council of europe convention on the protection of the environment through criminal law was signed here in strasbourg ten years ago.
it is therefore high time that an effective instrument for environmental protection was finally created in european criminal law.
where a continuous activity is found, after a certain period of time, to have caused damage to the environment which may in turn give rise to criminal liability under this directive, the question whether the perpetrator of the damage acted intentionally or negligently should be determined by reference to the moment when the perpetrator became aware or should have become aware of the facts constituting the infringement, and not by reference to the moment when the perpetrator started his activity.
declaration no 2 by the european commission: the secondary legislation linked to annex 2 to this directive on health and safety to protect the population and the environment from the risks associated with activities involving ionising radiation has been adopted on the basis of the euratom treaty.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, - mr president, i have to say something.
one of the major problems with the eu's environmental policy is that it is unfortunately not implemented uniformly in the individual countries and, in particular, is not enforced uniformly in the individual countries.
we have a clear list, which we stress should not be static but dynamic, and which shows when the basic principles of environmental policy are being violated.
in the committee on the environment we have been very concerned to ensure that special habitats were protected and we are pleased that this has been included.
it is a major step forward in environmental protection.
it should be allowed that individual countries may carry out controls and require a higher standard than that provided for by eu rules, in the interests of the environment and consumer health.
no, the sea remembers as well as the earth and the air, as well as the plants and animals and the human body, and the contribution of shipping to pollution remains enormous.
imagine if we could get the major shipping nations to make the imo an active player in the fight to save the global environment instead of, as now, relentlessly using the imo to stop good initiatives.
it is the most polluted sea area in the eu, with a lot of pollution from land and from ships, and dumped munitions from previous wars.
we must have a cleaner environment in the baltic sea, and at the same time we want to see strong economic development in the area and a development where short sea shipping can take the burden off road traffic.
so solutions must be found to limit ship emissions without at the same time preventing the development of short sea shipping.
i believe that freedom of method to achieve the political targets for emissions combined with economic instruments is the way forward.
i hope that in its baltic sea strategy the commission will step up its work for a better environment and, among other things, draw lessons from the pilot projects which parliament was given to include in this year's budget.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market.
today, therefore, the delegation voted in favour of the paragraph in the report on an integrated maritime policy for the european union which clearly states that we must include shipping in the co2 emissions trading scheme.
it is unclear whether the green amendment refers to a specific emissions trading model.
we therefore do not want to stick to a particular model at this stage, which could, in the worst case, make it difficult and delay agreement on the integration of co2 emissions from shipping.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, mr den dover, for his constructive attitude.
the commission agrees that this is a great waste of talent and resources and that it also goes against the principle of equality.
− given the trans-boundary nature of environmental crime, we believe that an established set of minimum standards and sanctions concerning environmental crime at international level would be a useful instrument in maintaining a comprehensive and effective environmental protection strategy.
on the basis of the agreed text, member states will now have to take a number of measures in order to improve their waste management.
the directive lays down clear definitions and waste management principles, which i trust will resolve the existing interpretation problems, reduce the number of court cases and set a sound legal basis for the functioning of the waste treatment sector.
firstly, the environmental objective of the directive is now clear and ambitious.
the level of environmental protection has not only been maintained but also strengthened in several cases, such as hazardous waste.
the co-legislators have agreed on a number of cornerstone definitions, including definitions of waste, prevention, recycling and recovery.
in addition, the directive successfully incorporates the provisions of two other directives to make the legislation more accessible while maintaining the high standards of environmental protection.
a clear five-step ‘waste hierarchy’ has been set up which promotes waste prevention and allows for disposal of residual waste only as the last resort.
i would like to recall the importance given by parliament during the negotiations to strengthening the upper levels of the ‘waste hierarchy’ by introducing the recycling targets.
in addition, the current formulation introduces a more regular and thorough process of monitoring the measures taken by member states to attain the required targets in advance of the 2020 deadline, instead of a simple check of the actual compliance levels in 2020 when waste management systems are already in place.
such an early enforcement process can help to avoid unpleasant surprises in 2020. last but not least, the directive introduces a completely new dimension on waste prevention which the commission is keen to pursue immediately after its adoption and transposition.
the member states will now have to establish their national waste management plans and networks which need to reflect the principles and new obligations set out in the revised directive.
article 14 of the waste framework directive does not prescribe whether private or public authorities should participate in the setting-up and in the operation of such networks, nor does it affect in any possible way the ownership – public or private – of waste-management operations and infrastructures.
regarding the concerns relating to the lack of a recycling target for manufacturing and industrial waste, my services will look into the possibility of setting such a target as the first priority within the context of the 2014 review, which is foreseen in article 8a (point 4).
regarding the issue of feeding animals with animal by-products such as catering waste, this is regulated by the animal by-products regulation, which is currently under review.
it should be addressed in that regulation as the waste framework directive is not the right place to regulate the use of catering waste.
concerning the question of whether by-product requirements and end-of-waste criteria must be fulfilled in the european union before shipment to third countries, the commission confirms that this is the case.
regarding the question of whether manure should be excluded from the scope of the waste framework directive, manure is not considered waste when it is used as a fertiliser.
however, it is considered waste when it is destined for further treatment or disposal operations, for instance incineration, production of biogas or compost and landfilling.
excluding manure from the scope of waste legislation would create a serious gap in environmental protection, since there would be no legal means to control issues such as emissions to air and water, landfilling requirements, noise, odour etc.
finally, the european union should promote the production of biogas and the composting of waste.
excluding manure destined for biogas production or composting plants from the scope of the waste framework directive would result in excluding such plants from the scope of the ippc directive.
- the mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today one of the most crucial challenges of environmental policy, the protection of our water resources for the benefit of our own and future generations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, and the committee on the environment for the excellent work they have done and for their cooperation in this directive.
the european parliament is today voting on a second reading of the proposal for a directive on environmental quality standards for priority substances in surface water.
in this way the directive will contribute to achieving a high level of protection of the aquatic environment and human health, which is also the objective of the water framework directive.
this applies in particular to the following key points: the future revision of the list of priority substances which is now clearly linked to environmental quality standards and will be proposed within two years of the entry into force of this directive; the list of candidates to be considered in the review of the existing list and the criteria for the inventory of emissions, discharges and leakages and for mixed zones.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
as you know, the water framework directive provides for an approach combining emission controls and environmental quality standards.
in addition to the emission controls under the directives on urban waste water treatment, on nitrous pollution of agricultural origin and on integrated pollution prevention and control, which were already in force when the water framework directive was adopted in 2000, more than 30 community legislative acts have been adopted or proposed by the commission.
the excessive use of pesticides by agriculture and the toxic emissions by industry must be curbed by strict requirements on the quantities of priority or priority hazardous substances that may be present in water.
for example, countries are now required to map the sources of pollution and to include concentrations in sediments and biota.
there are urgent issues such as climate change, energy security, migration, which require responses from the union, even with the current institutional framework.
i really feel that the commission president should say to us today: yes, i agree, we have a financial crisis and, yes, i agree, we need to have universal regulation, better than the one we have, so that our answer can be new jobs and a better climate, not more money and not more focus on how to create money from nothing, instead of production and jobs.
eu heads of state have adopted an ambitious energy policy agenda - are we reflecting these ambitions in the budget?
we all have a moral obligation not to waste the time of any institution on irrelevant questions, but we cannot accept the setting of so-called objective criteria of relevance.
the baltic sea is a very vulnerable sea and nord stream will affect the seabed and the biodiversity of the area.
i therefore believe that all coastal states must jointly monitor environmental safety and that nord stream must compensate for any damage that may occur in connection with the closure of the pipeline.
but the environmental problem is not the only one at nord stream.
we have seen russia use energy policy as a political tool on several occasions.
nord stream is therefore of particular and fundamental interest to europe, because when it comes to energy supply, it is important that the eu stands together in a common energy policy and that individual member states do not make bilateral agreements.
my priority – and i hope it will be yours, i know it is yours – is about jobs, is about growth, is about sustainability.
−the june movement considers hydrogen fuel cells as energy carriers made from renewable energy - solar, wind and wave power - as a transport system because it is a clean combustion, i.e.
no particulate pollution, while the fuel can be made from renewable energy.
overall, however, hydrogen vehicles have a very low energy efficiency of 20% from source to wheel.
this is far surpassed by electric vehicles powered by lithium batteries, which have an energy efficiency of 80-90%, while millions of batteries can solve the storage problems of renewable energy.
the communication on a european ports policy is a response to the sector’s needs and concerns as identified by the commission following a broad consultation of the port sector from november 2006 to june 2007. the consultation results showed that there was agreement on the challenges faced by european ports: an increased demand for international transport, technological change, commitments to reduce greenhouse gases and other emissions, the need for dialogue, the need to ensure a level playing field.
the measures announced in the communication, which the industry agrees with and even clearly calls for, need to be implemented: guidelines on state aid, guidance on the application of environmental legislation, the european maritime transport space without barriers, and social dialogue.
and the series of consultations organised by the commission with all port stakeholders has shown the need for clarification of state aid rules to ensure fair competition between ports and the need for clarification of environmental rules.
the commission will also clarify how eu environmental legislation should be interpreted in relation to the expansion and development of ports.
in the long term, port expansion can improve the environment by promoting more environmentally friendly maritime transport.
the development of ports should not, of course, be at the expense of the environment.
greater clarity can also ensure that environmental cases are not brought which are really only aimed at delaying and hindering port expansion - cases which are not brought out of genuine concern for the environment.
we are asking for actions to avoid excessive debt caused by leveraged buy-out, so that level of leverage is sustainable both for the private equity fund/firm and for the target company.
i think it is strange that it should take the council so long to find a common position on the seven directives which are intended to prevent pollution disasters at sea and which are also intended to strengthen preparedness when things go wrong.
we need effective legislation to ensure that all wood products sold within the community - including processed wood - are both legal and sustainable.
− we share the concern of the resolution about the effects of climate change on the sustainability of the communities that inhabit the arctic area as well as the effects on the natural habitat; and we recognise the significance of the arctic for the global climate and therefore the arctic as a common concern.
the targets need to be revised to achieve the maximum sustainable yield, even if sea conditions change as a result of global warming.
on amendment 8, i accept the inclusion of a reference to seal mortality as an example, and of considerations of climate change on cod when a review of the plan is made.
the fact that a tac is set does not mean that the stock is in good shape because most of our fisheries are regarded as being fished above sustainable levels, and you set tacs which would be on a diminishing scale.
the environment is another area which we have also been talking about for ten years.
president sarkozy, you are so full of energy, but keep this energy now because, urgent as it was to avoid a meltdown of our banks, it is now just as urgent to regulate better and prevent this recession taking hold.
the commission is not - madam president, every day europeans are made ill by air pollution.
every day, europeans are even dying from air pollution from traffic in europe.
we also know that we're facing some extreme climate change.
climate change, which is caused not least by the excessive use of fuel in the transport sector.
what we are agreeing is that the authorities in europe must play a much greater role in combating the pollution of our air.
the health, environmental and climate costs of the car's emission of various types of particles must also be taken into account, since the car, by burning fossil fuels, causes increased pollution and thus greater global warming.
we are not forcing local authorities to choose the most environmentally sound solution, but we are forcing local authorities to take the health and environmental consequences into account in their calculations, and we are creating openness and transparency about the decisions that are being made, and thus i am also sure that many more public authorities in europe will make the right, the green choices rather than the short-term, perhaps cheaper choices, if you only count in dollars and cents, and that is the whole point of the proposal.
in addition to the fact that this will probably and hopefully have some direct environmental effects, because the public sector actually accounts for a large proportion of the purchases of a wide range of vehicles, such as buses, with public authorities in europe accounting for about a third of the purchases that exist.
in addition to the very direct environmental impact, this proposal will also have a secondary effect.
a system which also includes exceptions where they may be necessary, and not least a system which ensures that there is already a well-functioning system which takes account of the environmental and health consequences of car purchases, that system can be maintained.
i am proud that tomorrow we will be able to vote on legislation that will reduce pollution in europe, that will put public authorities in the lead in the fight against global warming and the fight against air pollution that is making many europeans sick every year.
it is therefore right to make it compulsory for the authorities in europe to take account of co2 emissions and particulate matter emissions, among other things, when investing in new vehicles.
we would have preferred to see everyone be required to use a common method of taking account of environmental impact in the award of contracts, so that it became clear that the polluter pays.
but we can live with the solution we have come up with here, where municipalities and the state can choose whether they want to put specific requirements on fuel consumption and particulate emissions in the tendering material, or they want to use a model where the environmental impact of the vehicle is priced and thus becomes part of the contract basis.
a cost-benefit analysis carried out as part of the impact assessment of the proposal indicates that the potential gains are significant, as the likely higher initial investment costs for vehicles will be offset by savings from lower energy consumption and lower emissions of co2 and other pollutants.
i believe that in ten or twenty years' time the citizens of europe will have a very different environmental awareness than they do today.
for alde, energy and climate policy, as well as research and innovation, have been key priorities for the 2009 budget.
we share mrs haug's view that climate and energy policy is not reflected sufficiently in the budget and look forward to the commission's clear proposal in the spring on how this area can be supported at eu level.
however, a good start is often made with practical improvements and cooperation in solving common practical everyday problems such as trade, police structure, energy supply and, not least, the possibility of the many internally displaced persons being able to have a home again.
finally, on behalf of my colleague mr blokland, first vice-chairman of the committee on the environment, i have a question on the environment: when will the commission publish the national emission ceilings?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is being presented by the european commission.
this includes further research and focus on protecting our ecosystem, including a reduction in the use of pesticides.
i have to tell you that unfortunately yesterday there was no positive reaction from a few members of ecofin to our proposal, both to the council and to parliament, to allow flexibility in the use of unspent resources without changing the overall ceiling of the european budget, in order to finance investments in infrastructure and in the fight against climate change at european level, worth 5 000 million euros.
when the commission has included in the recovery plan not only a fiscal effort but also ten priorities for smart investment actions, what we want is more growth, more sustainability and better quality employment than what some short-term measures can give, which are temporary - which is one of the requirements of the stimulus - but which do not have the other two characteristics necessary for it to be a quality fiscal effort: that they are suitable to add, to contribute to demand in the short term, but also to increase the chances of our economies in the economic recovery that will undoubtedly come.
the idea might be that this is more about providing an alibi for subsidising an old-fashioned heavy industry than about a genuine desire to pursue climate policy.
the aim is to shift european car production to electric cars that can run on renewable energy.
one fifth of all co2 emissions in europe comes from the transport sector.
if we focus our efforts on this particular area, we can do something about co2 emissions and reduce noise and particulate pollution.
it has been exciting to be involved in negotiating the climate package in place, first in committee and then in the trilogue negotiations, where i am participating as shadow rapporteur on the burden-sharing directive.
empty promises will not slow global warming.
everything else is not serious and credible if we want to get an international climate agreement in place, because it can be interpreted in the way that we have already done our part and that we cannot do more.
the motivation for energy technology innovation in europe must not be lacking either, and with this package we must ensure a development towards a future in which we base our energy consumption on forms of energy that are co2-neutral.
last year, eu leaders took the lead on climate change - and they are committed.
now the council must show a willingness to deliver, so that we can all rejoice in the climate package as the best christmas present of the year.
let me begin by thanking our rapporteur, claude turmes, for his impressive work on the renewable energy directive.
this directive will revolutionize european energy policy.
an addiction that has damaged our climate, created wars, unrest and inequality all over the world.
we have already ensured that clear and strong sustainability criteria are set for the production of biofuels for our cars.
we have ensured that the large energy consumption in buildings will be limited and we have ensured that wind turbine and solar cell manufacturers are guaranteed that europe will now invest in renewable energy.
i therefore urge the council to reconsider its position so that europe can have the energy agreement we so badly need.
on monday evening, the major political groups in the european parliament reached a compromise with the council of ministers on co2 emissions requirements for passenger cars, which means that the car industry can continue to be a piggy bank until 2019. the eu has joined the un climate targets, which require industrialised countries to reduce co2 emissions by 25-40% by 2020. the agreement on co2 emissions from cars is a slap in the face for the car industry and it only confirms that the eu's climate pledges are worth no more than the paper they are written on.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which will be published in the official journal of the european union.
you should keep your energy because we need another stimulus package and we will need it quite soon, already by the spring.
but there is no denying the historic shift that the climate plan is.
22 months ago, few people thought the eu would commit to 20% of our energy consumption coming from renewable sources by 2020. it is nothing less than the most important energy legislation in the world which we are to adopt here in the european parliament tomorrow.
with it, we can finally see the end of centuries of dependence on oil and gas - an addiction that has damaged our climate and created wars, unrest and inequality all over the world.
we must act and with the renewable energy directive we are taking the first step towards a cleaner and better world.
for our energy consumption is the cornerstone when we talk about doing something about climate change.
because if we can successfully transform our energy consumption and get rid of the use of fossil fuels, then we can also succeed in doing something about climate change.
the agreement we have reached with the european council is a good result from the socialist group's point of view, because we have maintained the overall binding targets, so that, regardless of how many leaps some countries have made, 20% of the eu's energy consumption in 2020 will come from green energy.
we have set binding targets, such as at least 10% of energy consumption in the transport sector to be from renewable sources, and we have ensured that biofuels are produced in a responsible and sustainable way, and we have also stressed the need for social sustainability from the socialist group.
we are also pleased that second generation biofuels are counted twice in the accounts, so there is an incentive to develop new energy technologies.
and finally, we have secured the foundations of an industry with two million new jobs in europe and research in green energy technologies, so i take pride in that today.
mr president, the last several months of debate on the climate package have been dramatic and exciting, and i would like to thank mrs hassi and the other shadow rapporteurs for a good and open cooperation.
we have been pushing for an ambitious climate package from the start to be credible in copenhagen.
member states should be responsible and start planning how they will cut their greenhouse gas emissions outside the trading system immediately.
they must create the necessary framework for low-carbon growth through energy efficiency improvements and more sustainable energy.
the vote tomorrow marks the completion of the preparation of a european climate package, but it is only a step towards a better climate policy for the planet.
and remember: the climate package is the starting point for the negotiations that are waiting in copenhagen, where we have to have an international agreement.
mr president, it is a pity that the climate plan has been so watered down since the council meeting last week.
co2 is pollution, whether it's in the air or underground.
we cannot base our climate action on saving pollution for future generations.
uncertain forecasts say it will be developed no earlier than 2015, perhaps even as early as 2020, and furthermore, it reduces energy efficiency, contrary to the climate plan's goals.
in this context, bridge technology means investing money in something that has no future, money that could be used to develop the renewable energy sector.
we have complained about the lack of energy measures in the budget.
we have proposed five billion for various energy initiatives.
− the danish social democrats have voted in favour of the majority of the eu climate package because it sets an ambitious target of reducing co2 emissions by 20% or 30% respectively, depending on whether a global agreement is reached, although not all the methods used are what we would have wanted.
the social democrats voted against the proposal on co2 emissions from cars.
the proposal would - contrary to what the european commission had proposed and contrary to the result of the vote in the environment committee - delay the requirements for industry to emit a maximum of 120g co2/km from 2012 by another 3 years.
the car industry entered into a voluntary agreement to reduce co2 emissions 10 years ago and has had plenty of time to adjust to the rules that are needed if we are to combat global warming.