the next item is the report by mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on cars 21: a regulatory framework for a competitive automotive sector (2007/2120 (ini)) (a6-0494/2007).
the european automotive industry is not opposed to the ambitious climate targets set out in the european commission's proposal.
it is clear that in the next step towards limiting co2 emissions from passenger cars we will reach a european average of 120 grams per kilometre.
i don't live in france, but i know that in france there are people who live in big castles and need a lot of energy to heat those castles.
i just want to point out that this argument seems very plausible at first glance, but on closer inspection it means that we would be going around the carbon issue to a profound regulation of lifestyle in europe.
the result would be more emissions, and at the same time the result would be the loss of tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of jobs.
a modern european industrial policy and a modern european environmental policy can demonstrate that economics and ecology are not in a natural opposition, but that it is possible to solve the ecological challenges of the future through sound economics and modern technology.
our industry, which is the world leader in passenger car production, second in trucks and with good after-sales services, must assert its position and be in a position to meet the needs of mobility and transport, improving productivity, increasing safety and contributing to the environment.
in addition, it follows some of the recommendations of cars 21, such as the integrated approach to co2 emissions reduction, the need for adequate entry-into-force periods and the protection of the internal and external competitiveness of european industry.
there are obviously some structural problems and, of course, what is obvious is that we must create a framework to ensure the sustainability of the european car industry.
the only way forward is to stay at the forefront of technological, ecological and social innovation with the support of highly qualified staff.
european legislation on the environment, road safety and energy efficiency requires adequate training of workers so that they can better adapt to changes, both technical and regulatory, and thus maintain or improve their employment prospects.
i believe that the present text, following the rapporteur's intensive effort at dialogue and arbitration, offers us a very useful instrument for the three main actors - national authorities, airports and companies - to resolve their differences, ultimately in favour of workers and passengers, by offering a good quality service, in line with the requirements of new travellers, as well as with the new requirements of accessibility, greater safety, less environmental impact, especially in terms of noise, and low conflicts and legal uncertainty through better consultation.
we are aware of the evolution of society and recognize that the traditional family model cannot be the only reference point and that there are more and more alternative models to which we must pay attention from the deep conviction that children should enjoy a favourable family environment.
this would indeed fall under the european initiative of global monitoring for environment and security.
we urge the pakistani authorities to do all they can to provide a securer environment in which the elections can be held, and we will carefully then assess the security situation in the light of the deployment of eu observers.
i hope that this will result in progress towards stronger civilian institutions and sustainable democracy in pakistan.
madam president, the programme which the commission is proposing to us, in respect of the objectives of ensuring our credibility, namely to demand from each one according to his real possibilities, to take up this challenge and turn it into an opportunity to make ourselves more competitive, to propose it in such a way that, in a cooperative way, we can all do it at international level and not waste a single minute, is certainly a very hopeful programme and full of exciting challenges.
among others, the challenge of proposing alternative energy sources to nuclear energy has been mentioned - and i agree with this.
logistics, which is becoming a competitive factor at the moment, should be one of the instruments for applying intelligence to mobility and for being able to provide good solutions for reducing emissions.
as for the galileo project, which has so far been little developed, because we did not see its full potential, i believe that applications to reduce emissions should be another challenge.
let me repeat: a nuclear-powered plant to produce energy – you may like it or not, but that is not the issue being debated today – requires, as you know, at least seven or eight years from the moment the contract is signed to the moment the power plant is operational.
there is no contract whatsoever between iran and anybody who can produce a nuclear-powered plant to produce energy – kilowatts – none except for the russian one.
finally, i would like to ask about the medium-term solutions for supplying water and energy to gaza.
it may also be a response to some of the legitimate fears or concerns that are also being expressed within the member states of the european union about the new energy and climate package that the european commission so successfully presented last week.
tackling climate change is becoming a de facto and major story in european politics.
we are faced with two needs: first, to combat the effects of climate change, which are usually caused by the development and growth of mankind; and second, to solve the problems of supplying traditional energies, the use of which, either because they are scarce or because they are in complicated geopolitical zones, is always uncertain.
the opportunity is to develop efficient energy sources which will enable us to remain competitive, clean energy sources which do not pollute, and also to ensure supply, because these are new sources of energy.
for a very simple reason: because we are not being able to say that clean energy is energy that is made up of renewable energy and also nuclear energy.
are we going to find ourselves in the paradoxical situation that china, india and other emerging economies are going to have cleaner energy by developing nuclear and, moreover, are going to be able to compete on lower wages?
i hope that parliament and the commission will be able to deal with the issue of nuclear energy, which is constantly being ignored and turned away from, with calmness but also with determination.
i think we must stand firm in defence of the principle of non-marketing of waste, as stated in paragraph 32 of the report and as decided by countries with more tradition in this field, such as norway.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
second, a progressive computerisation of all customs formalities, with a view to a completely ‘paperless’ environment for customs and trade, whose development will be supported and framed by the e-customs decision (no 70/2008/ec) of the parliament and of the council, adopted on 15 january 2008. these changes include interoperability between national computerised customs systems.
we insist on the issue of working conditions, we insist on the issue of safety, we insist on the protection of the environment and, in general, on human rights.
the whole chain of education and training systems should be closely examined and the content should be of the highest possible standard in terms of general culture and scientific and technical training, in order to enable people to adapt to the changing environment and to promote citizen participation, better quality jobs, entrepreneurship and innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the stability and growth pact and the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, which identified sustainable growth and employment as european priorities, have borne fruit since the spring 2005 council.
as i cannot imagine that the commission is unaware of the importance of these vectors of competitiveness - since, in fact, in the context of globalisation, logistics already represents a cost to industry that exceeds that of labour, not to mention the challenge that climate change adds - i am confident that the commission will take note this time of paragraph 27 together with paragraph 16, on galileo and innovation, so that we can take full advantage of the very useful synergy created by this lisbon process between the commission and the member states to advance european projects for sustainable transport, logistics and trans-european networks, especially in their cross-border sections, which have always been so neglected.
- the mr president, first of all i would like to remind you of the commission's unwavering position that whatever the usefulness or necessity of a project, its implementation should never be detrimental to the environment, public health or the cultural heritage of a member state.
in the present case, there was no community co-financing for the construction of the section linking sants and sagrega stations and the tunnel to be opened near the sagrada familia church and, therefore, the commission was not informed of, nor did it receive a copy of, the environmental impact study drawn up by the spanish authorities.
the commission is aware that the competent spanish authority, namely the general secretariat for pollution prevention and climate change, has approved the environmental impact study in accordance with the decision of 30 may 2007. the text of the approval decision was published in the spanish government gazette in june 2007. the text also mentions the impact of the project on cultural heritage, such as the sagrada familia.
i am calling on the commission to help as the guardian of the treaties and to take responsibility for refusing to do what it is doing and to apply the environmental impact directive with scrupulousness and quality.
the honourable member is right, of course, that we must take special care to preserve our cultural heritage and especially this architectural masterpiece, but so far we have not been informed of any danger, and the environmental study that has been drawn up has not been denounced to us as incorrect.
but these are issues that local authorities, regional authorities and central government should always solve by applying the environmental impact assessment directive as well as the duty they have to preserve cultural heritage.
we have therefore set out in the new strategy very clearly what we want to achieve with this increased commitment: to promote reforms in the field of human rights, democracy, support economic development, investment promotion, environmental protection, environmental sustainability, the development of energy and transport links, but also to tackle common challenges such as drug trafficking.
you have rightly referred to the energy dialogue and also to the need to conclude an agreement on cooperation in the energy sector with turkmenistan.
finally, a brief update on the current energy and food crisis in tajikistan.
europe must have a voice in the world, it must be present and it must solve the problems that arise today, whether it is climate change, whether it is the fight against illegal immigration, whether it is the fight against nuclear proliferation.
so what we are doing in choosing the political agenda of climate change and energy, roaming charges, toy and food safety, transport policy or agricultural policy or trade or what have you, is extremely important, and we are not going to put our feet up until the new treaty is in force.
this is fully in line with our approach, and we are pleased to share with parliament and its offices in the member states our communication products and information materials on the treaty – and we have good things to communicate: a treaty that will give us the tools to move forward in developing the policies that the opinion polls tell us, every time, our citizens want: climate change and energy, migration issues, growth and jobs, the environment and, of course, the eu’s role on the global scene.
mr smith had spoken about the need for the law to be simple and applicable, especially in relation to environmental law.
in addition, in a globalised world, many of the problems that science has yet to solve require the cooperation of all without exclusion, especially in specific sectors such as energy, climate change or food security.
this cooperation takes place in fields as diverse as biotechnology, health, nanotechnologies, aeronautics, transport, energy or climate change.
one example is energy, which is also a very hot topic in that country.
in this connection, very interesting research projects are being developed in coal technologies, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the european union recognises the importance of this approach as it enables the african continent to address the challenges posed by climate change.
the commission believes that african countries at high risk from climate change urgently need to develop appropriate comprehensive adaptation strategies, while ensuring that these changes do not jeopardise the achievements of the countries in the fight against poverty.
the commission therefore supports the efforts of the african union to develop a comprehensive agricultural scientific research agenda, as well as the efforts of international organisations to harmonise early warning systems for agricultural crops and the transfer of renewable energy technologies, which is an issue related to the reduction of co2 emissions, but this transfer should primarily be related to efforts to achieve sustainable and efficient energy supply and access rather than to climate change issues.
in order to achieve a balanced and sustainable development of the union's regional policy, it should be conducted in close cooperation with regional actors and in coordination with other policies.
there is also strong support for the need for this policy to respond to the challenges that you have been discussing today, and which are linked not only to globalisation, but also to demography, climate and energy, and restructuring in general, with strong support for the integrated approach.
madam president, mr albertini's report raises the enormous challenge of maintaining the democratic mobility that is achieved by low prices and access to new means and new routes, and also by the free movement of people, goods and services that is the basis for the success of european construction, enlargement and social, economic and territorial cohesion, while at the same time avoiding the heavy impact on the environment, which is mainly due to emissions, not to mention noise, congestion and safety.
to make it sustainable and thereby minimise its impact on our environment and our health.
and then, following on from what some colleagues have said about the need to diversify fuels, i would like to ask the commissioner about the future possibility of including hydro power networks in the transeuropean energy networks.
beyond this, the priorities put forward by the commission are correct: enlargement; relations with russia based on respect for human rights and security of energy supply; the policy of association and stabilisation in the balkans with the case of kosovo; the neighbourhood policy, with the barcelona process and the mediterranean union to be presented by the french presidency of the union.
firstly, with regard to the key actions for 2009, which are listed in point 2 of the annex on sustainable development, it can be seen that the fisheries policy is incorporated into the integrated maritime policy, something which our group does not share, because while it is true that some aspects of the cfp are part of this maritime policy, so are some aspects of transport policy, for example, and this is not why it is subsumed or abducted within this heading.
we are therefore convinced that the innovation and knowledge communities should be set up as strategically integrated networks of universities, research centres and companies, where students, researchers and knowledge can circulate freely and where work is carried out on topics of the greatest scientific and strategic interest, such as renewable energies or information and communication technologies.
the rural economy needs women, not only in order to keep up with economic growth in the rest of society, but also to ensure sustainable rural development, where families and companies see a real future in staying in the countryside.
we are talking about half the population of this territory, so the integration of the gender perspective in the rural sector is a priority element, both to promote equality between men and women and to enable economic and social growth in the rural environment.
if women have real difficulties in entering the labour market or reconciling family and professional life, these difficulties are aggravated when we talk about the rural environment.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, gender mainstreaming in the rural sector is necessary not only to promote equality between women and men, but also to help ensure that economic growth is based on sustainable rural development.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we as the european union are to build a coherent energy policy and speak with one voice on the international energy scene, it is essential to have complete and reliable statistics which allow easy comparisons.
moreover, understanding the complexity of our energy situation and carrying out a detailed quantitative check on the progress made towards our objectives also requires accurate, timely and complete statistics.
we therefore agree with the rapporteur that, in matters such as energy efficiency, we need to improve the statistics we have.
efficiency is now a priority of our energy policy and of the fight against climate change.
the development of the nuclear and renewable energy sectors also raises important difficulties in this respect which need to be resolved.
successful efforts at national reconciliation are essential for progress in improving the security situation to be long-term and sustainable.
the number of deaths among iraqi civilians still remains very high and there is great uncertainty about the sustainability of these efforts and of improvements.
rapid progress continues on areas from human rights to combating terrorism, from energy cooperation to the environment.
we shall explore ways of taking more direct action as parliament has asked – bearing in mind the security environment – and we would like to ensure the maximum efficiency, visibility and accountability of our assistance.
many of us believe that the european union should consider support for renewable energy and energy efficiency not only as an integral part of its energy and climate change strategy, but also as an integral part of its development policy.
the proposal to create a global fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy to mobilise private investment for developing countries and economies in transition is therefore very interesting.
modest funding ideally requires setting priorities and synergies with other existing programmes and also with the world bank and regional development banks, which are increasingly investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
it is a very comprehensive report, which leaves no relevant questions unanswered in relation to the difficult situation created in the social and family environment following the imprisonment of the father or mother.
the proposal is to create independent units far from the prison environment, with living conditions adapted to the needs of the children, which include their integration into the resources of the community.
madam president, i really do not think that the document we are discussing is what it could be, and i will explain: it is a document to assess what has been done with the broad guidelines that the european commission had proposed for the environment, in the whole of environmental policy.
i believe that environmental policy has been fully integrated into municipal and regional policies, and the industry itself is responding to the guidelines of the european union.
europe has been making environmental policy for over 25 years and needs to review some of its methods, because that is the only thing that explains the failure of some policies.
the challenges are even greater for coal because of its implications for energy production and also for the achievement of our objectives in the fight against climate change.
making coal more competitive in the energy market, improving mine safety and operation and achieving cleaner combustion requires r & d, and new technologies for co2 capture and storage are a research line the european union has clearly committed to.
the quest for a higher degree of economic efficiency generally has very positive effects on overcapacity and hence on sustainability of fisheries activities.
it is true that management by allocating fishing rights raises questions as to its implementation, but it is no less true that countries where fishing does matter as a sector of the future have been able to resolve them, showing that, at least for fleet segments capable of evolving towards more modern, efficient and sustainable approaches, it has significant advantages.
that is why we also welcome mrs attwooll's report, which, alongside the concerns, has been able to reflect the possible advantages, which could include improved control, reduced capacity, less waste and less dependence on public aid.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the green paper on adaptation to climate change in europe: options for action for the eu, by guido sacconi, on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change (o-0013/2008 b6-0014/2008).
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr sacconi on the question, which gives us the opportunity to be here today discussing the issue of climate change.
my colleagues will be speaking on more technical matters, but i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner and, above all, to show my support for all that he is doing in this area: he was one of the pioneers and one of the first to talk about climate change here in brussels.
the wonderful greek islands, like the ones i represent, the balearic islands, may be harmed in the future by the climate changes that may occur.
the green paper should also recognise a commitment to support regions that need to make significant investment to counter the effects of climate change.
i would like to conclude by setting out my personal ambition, which is that of the european people's party, that the european union should take the lead in terms of low-carbon and zero-carbon technologies.
we are convinced that a rapid and bold shift towards more modern and efficient technologies will not only benefit our climate and provide the basis for a global solution, but will also be good for the economy, because it will make us much less dependent on importing these fossil fuels.
public and private investment in research and development activities to combat climate change is therefore of paramount importance to ensure that adaptation and mitigation actions are as effective as possible with respect to the limitations and consequences of climate change.
we must put in place measures such as energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy, efficient cogeneration, fuel efficiency in cars, public transport or energy-efficient lighting, improved management of farmland and pastureland and reduction of deforestation, not to mention improved water uses due to water scarcity.
and the second request is addressed to the council because, although the increase in these temperatures and the changes in rainfall patterns due to climate change will have an impact on the soil, no agreement has yet been reached on an appropriate european framework for the protection of this soil.
i think, however, that the problem of climate change is a work in progress where we are constantly learning and knowing what is happening and what are the possible solutions.
and especially when we talk about the issue of water, which is fundamental and will be the number one - already is - of the consequences of climate change, we must take into account the search for consensus and actions in the territory - sometimes humble actions - for soil permeability, for reforestation, for the capture of surpluses, the use of existing reservoirs as if they were reservoirs to accumulate surplus water, the power to really distribute the few resources we have left and that the water does not go to the sea and is lost.
i would like to underline that, without the continued support of the european parliament, most of our policies that are in place today would not have been adopted, and the leading role of the european union in the world would not provide the hope that an international agreement will be achieved in copenhagen in 2009. it is our main objective to have an international agreement to fight climate change, and to adapt to changing climatic conditions, in which all the countries of the world will participate and especially the united states and other big emitters, because then the fight against climate change will be effective.
there is almost a consensus in science that climate change is anthropogenic: it is caused by human activities.
last week a report from the world health organisation underlined the impact on health caused by climatic conditions and changes in climate, and nasa warned us that climate change is happening faster than we thought.
concerning cost: if we act later, we shall pay more; if we act now, we shall pay much less and we shall also avoid the irreversible impact of climate change on our planet.
we also have a moral duty, which many members stressed, towards those who have not contributed to the formation of the greenhouse phenomenon – the least-developed countries in the world, which not only have a very low income per capita but also have contributed only a very small fraction to the formation of this phenomenon.
again concerning the cost, a few speakers mentioned the question of auctioning and how this will affect our energy-intensive industries or other sectors of the economy.
we will continue to cooperate closely with you and the temporary committee on climate change in formulating our policies and working hard, especially during these two years, to achieve an international agreement in copenhagen.
this resolution refers to two subjects of importance to our fellow citizens: maritime safety and the protection of the marine environment, that is to say, our coasts, our bays and our beaches.
europe has had to cope with ecological disasters caused by shipping accidents: erika, prestige.
the commission followed this accident very closely, which occurred in august 2007. the commission services, in particular the monitoring and information centre of the environment directorate-general responsible for civil protection, were in contact with the spanish authorities, the asmar sociedad statal de salvamento y seguridad maritima and the united kingdom authorities.
in accordance with the requests of the spanish authorities, we have provided satellite images through the european maritime safety agency, emsa, to detect possible oil pollution in the bay of algeciras.
in addition, spain decided to mobilise one of emsa's contracted anti-pollution vessels via the monitoring and information centre.
the mistra bay anti-pollution vessel is still in the area, ready to intervene under the responsibility of the spanish authorities.
these two services of emsa, namely the provision of satellite images of the clean sea net and anti-pollution vessels, both services are derived from european decisions.
thanks to the support of the european parliament, €154 million has been allocated to the fight against pollution for the years 2007-2013. in addition, emsa has just signed contracts with other anti-pollution vessels to protect europe's coasts even better, and very soon new vessels, the bahia uno and bahia tres, will be available from algeciras bay.
in general, the commission ensures that the community acquis in the field of maritime safety and protection of the marine environment is correctly applied.
in the above areas, a number of cases are pending, including the so-called 'criminal sanctions' directive and the 'environmental liability' directive.
in conclusion, the commission recalls that the european union has put in place ambitious policies for maritime safety and protection of the marine environment.
the member state affected by an accident has, if it so wishes, effective tools to combat pollutants and pollution.
and in that case, commissioner, please commit yourself before this house that if there is a breach of community law, you will refer such infringements to the court of justice of the european communities because, in the end, it is always the citizens and the environment who end up paying.
mr president, i would like to think that we are all concerned about protecting the environment and maritime safety, and that is the only reason for bringing the new flame accident to the table.
the problem is that we are faced with a two-faced problem, the ecological side and the diplomatic side.
it is true, for example, that the new flame case is a paradigm of the chronic pollution by hydrocarbons that the bay of algeciras suffers from because of gibraltar's failure to comply with european regulations, but also because of the excessive permissiveness of the spanish authorities.
and here i would like to recall, or perhaps thank, the sudden ecological interest of the pp colleagues.
i have the feeling, however, that the interest in the new flame is not so much about the need to tackle the ecological problem as about making an internal opposition to which we are so accustomed.
i believe, and i insist, that there is a diplomatic problem, but the fundamental one is the ecological problem, which must be tackled immediately.
because it is not just the new flame, it was the sierra nava, the samotraki, and we are facing events which put at risk, logically, maritime safety, the safety of people and the safety of the natural environment.
i therefore believe that we need a european energy, a clear instruction to the two member states.
mr president, this debate and the commissioner's answers have made it clear that the spanish and andalusian authorities' sensitivity to pollution and to maritime safety is very important in this government, both because of its capacity to respond, which has been quite immediate in time and form, and because it has put forward a very important set of measures to solve the problem and prevent greater evils.
we tell the european commission that we cannot continue to learn from the pedagogy of catastrophe and we ask it to present to this house a protocol, an effective protocol of cooperation in maritime transport in the straits of gibraltar, in defence of the environment and in defence of common sense.
it is scandalous that for seven long months no competent authority has been able to take effective decisions to prevent the sinking of the ship and that the pollution discharges resulting from the accident have not been prevented.
commissioner, in the erika iii package, which the council is doing little to bring to fruition in the terms demanded by the european parliament, we are working hard to ensure that there is an independent authority in the fight against marine pollution, with the power to decide after an assessment of the extent of the damage.
commissioner, what andalusia is asking for in the bay of algeciras is that the lawful practices of bunkering and maritime activities generating wealth and employment for the area be compatible with unambiguous respect for the protection of the environment.
at the moment, i was focused mainly on environmental aspects.
i think that the vice-president's ability to deal with the environmental and transport aspects with new instruments is important.
mr queiró, the commission considers that the provisions of the directive on criminal penalties for pollution are likely to apply to the new flame situation and, more generally, to salvage operations, which cause pollution at sea.
however, the 2005 directive only defines the legal framework for sanctioning those responsible for marine pollution.
the international maritime organization is also preparing to adopt measures to prevent pollution during the transfer of oil from one tanker to another.
this proposal was designed to provide a standby response to victims of pollution at sea, before the continually delayed implementation of international conventions which are either not coming into force until much later or are not applied in all member states, thus creating unequal situations between operators and between victims of accidents.
ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, i would like to take this opportunity to say that parliament has really taken its responsibilities in this respect in the third maritime pollution package.
i would like to say that in order to prevent shipwrecks like the new flame, we must have legislation which, as we proposed in the third maritime package, is absolutely comprehensive and really makes it possible to prevent the risk of shipwrecks and pollution at all stages.
i agree with you that this is the first common european structure and that we must not waste valuable time and open the door to the rapid implementation of these programmes.
the independence of the system will enable the certification of the services offered to users and provide guarantees of their quality, conditions necessary for the development of a wide range of new commercial applications which offer a great opportunity to our small and mediumsized enterprises and which, moreover, have a great environmental and social potential: navigation for the blind, planning the most accessible route for people in wheelchairs, etc.
and secondly, the environment, climate change and energy in the context of sustainable development.
the second key chapter of the forthcoming summit: sustainable development and the environment, climate change and energy.
climate change will have a profound impact on our economies, growth and policies to reduce poverty.
we are aware, both in the european union and in latin america and the caribbean, of the security risks posed by climate change.
it is necessary to provide for concrete and rapid measures for the sustainable management of forests and the use of resources to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to encourage investment in low-carbon production, to preserve biodiversity, to manage water resources and the like.
this will be the fifth high-level meeting between our two regions since the launch of our strategic partnership at the rio summit in 1999. the lima summit will focus on two specific themes: the fight against poverty, inequality and exclusion on the one hand, and the environment, climate change and energy on the other.
these developments are part of a political environment divided between the democratic way, which remains the most widespread system in the region, and a growing tendency towards populism, or even, in some cases, towards the strengthening of executive power to the detriment of parliamentarism and the rule of law.
the european union's main objective for the lima summit is to consolidate the existing strategic partnership and to advance it on two fronts, social cohesion and sustainable development, which will be of paramount importance for our relationship with the region in the near future.
on environment and climate change, we want to strengthen our cooperation with the region to address this global challenge.
it was at the commission's initiative that the first eu-latin america-caribbean ministerial environmental dialogue was launched in march 2008 as a prelude to the lima summit.
we must seize the opportunity to acknowledge with our partners in the region the link between sustainable development and climate change, even though the priority given to climate change issues remains relatively modest for many latin american countries, despite the negative and often dramatic consequences of climate change for the region.
mr president, beyond mere rhetorical questions, the european parliament's ambitious resolution which it is going to adopt tomorrow is to go from words to deeds, fully supporting the lima agenda on poverty, social exclusion and also on the preservation of the environment and the fight against climate change, proposing a whole series of measures.
and in this spirit, we must continue to bring our societies closer together, not only socially and culturally but also politically, commercially, economically, in the field of security, in the fight against climate change and in the field of sustainable development.
i am very sceptical about what will emerge from the summit of heads of state scheduled for mid-may, beyond reiterating the triple commitment already made in the past, on the other hand, in relation to the fight against poverty and in favour of social cohesion and sustainable development.
first, it must be borne in mind that the association agreements between the european union and latin america must not only be comprehensive, ambitious and balanced, but above all they must contribute to respect for the human, economic and social rights of the population, as well as to mutual and sustainable development and the reduction of inequalities.
the lima summit should strengthen our bi-regional partnership with latin america and the caribbean at all levels and promote concertation to tackle together global challenges, from climate change to drug trafficking or terrorism.
conditions necessary for the development of new commercial applications which offer a great opportunity to our smes and which have a great environmental and social potential.
- first of all, i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and its chairman, mr miroslav ouzký, for the oral question you have put to me, to the council and to the commission.
you are also making a big deal out of this very sensitive issue of biodiversity.
biodiversity is the presidency's top priority in the field of environment, alongside climate change.
the council has been preparing very intensively for this important meeting, under the 18-month programme of the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies, in order to make it a success, both in terms of better protection and sustainable use of biodiversity at global level.
he recalled that the european union had committed itself to a global target of a significant reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss by 2010 and to an eu-wide target of halting the loss of biodiversity in europe by 2010. so to your specific question, i answer: yes, the european union wants and must maintain its leading role in the world.
the council also stressed, inter alia, that sustained efforts at all levels and further concrete actions are essential to achieve the global biodiversity target for 2010. here, implementation of the convention is essential, both at national and eu level.
and the european union has made a political commitment to all three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the protection and sustainable use of biodiversity and access to and sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources.
it is necessary to underline the importance of accelerating the implementation of all work programmes of the convention on biological diversity, to improve synergies between climate change and biodiversity policies to maximise the mutual benefits.
in this context, the council has consistently stressed the need for coordination in the implementation of international environmental agreements at all levels.
it is necessary to underline the urgency of addressing the issue of production, trade and consumption of biofuels and biomass and their impact on biodiversity and ecosystem services at the ninth conference.
it is all the more important to clearly define the sustainability criteria for the production of biofuels.
emphasise the importance of implementing the forest biodiversity programme and reducing deforestation and degradation of forest ecosystems.
the council stresses the importance of forests in mitigating and adapting to climate change while preserving biodiversity.
the ninth session should adopt ecological criteria for the designation of marine areas to be protected on the high seas.
i have only highlighted those that the council considers to be essential to achieving the objectives of the convention and in particular the 2010 biodiversity target.
i think we all noticed how, in 2007, environmental issues rose to the top of the political agenda.
climate change grabbed the headlines and popular imagination.
but the loss of biodiversity is a global threat that needs to be faced with the same urgency, and they are linked.
climate change and biodiversity are linked.
how do we halt the loss of biodiversity?
well, i believe that europe made some progress in this area by implementing the activities covered by the communication of 2006 from the commission ‘halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010 – and beyond’.
in particular we need a stronger buy-in of sectors other than nature conservation, such as agriculture, fisheries and energy.
the ninth conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity, which will be held back-to-back with the fourth meeting of the parties to the cartagena protocol on biosafety, offers a remarkable opportunity to step up the protection of biodiversity and, since these meetings will be hosted and chaired by germany, europe has a particular role.
we will push for the acceleration of international efforts towards achieving the global target of significantly reducing biodiversity loss by 2010. at the beginning of march, the council adopted conclusions that set up the broad political mandate and the main priorities for the eu at these meetings.
first, we want to agree on new commitments to enhance implementation, in particular as regards the execution of the convention on biological diversity’s programmes on protected areas and forest biodiversity.
secondly, we want to ensure that climate change adaptation and mitigation measures also support the 2010 biodiversity target.
the decisions to be taken in bonn should contribute to the post-bali debate on reduced emissions from deforestation and forest degradation.
fourthly, we want to develop international guidance for promoting biodiversity-friendly ways of enhancing the production and consumption of biomass, including biofuels.
sixthly, we want an agreement on the establishment of an international mechanism on scientific expertise on biodiversity.
the resolution to be voted on tomorrow seeks to reinforce the main aims and intentions of the world convention in the following ways: firstly, to promote greater protection of the natural resources of fauna and flora; secondly, to promote sustainable land use to promote the conservation of species and nature; and, secondly, to conserve our natural genetic capital.
mr president, mr minister for the council, madam commissioner, we are all aware that the loss of biological diversity is having far-reaching environmental, social, economic and cultural effects, which have been exacerbated by the negative effects of climate change.
i would like to stress the points on which the motion for a resolution places particular emphasis: the recognition of the ongoing loss of biodiversity in the european union, which is already a fact, the push for the adoption of an international regime for access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources, which is fair, equitable and legally binding, and the promotion of the implementation of existing commitments in favour of better conservation and sustainable management of marine biodiversity, with a view to protecting it from destructive practices and unsustainable fishing activities affecting marine ecosystems.
i would like to conclude by saying that it is time to act decisively and to try to solve all these problems, because, although i think there is still time - you and we know it - it is running counter to us and to the biodiversity we want to protect.
these issues are export duties, some exceptions in the area of energy services, notably by the uae, and certain horizontal provisions of the agreement, such as competition and intellectual property.
the fta includes significant commitments on trade in services and investments by both sides and mutual access to public procurement markets, also in the energy and transport sectors.
this house has expressed concern that the free trade agreement being negotiated with the gulf cooperation council does not contain clauses on human rights and social and environmental standards.
in addition to these clauses, the preamble of the agreement refers to the need to strengthen the process of economic and social development in the gcc countries, while protecting the environment.
it also refers to the fact that the parties shall not encourage foreign direct investment by lowering or relaxing their domestic environment or label standards.
the eu-gcc fta negotiations took into account the results and conclusions of a sustainability impact assessment study which was carried out between 2001 and 2004. this was the case, in particular, in sectors which were identified by the consultants as important for a more sustainable economic development in the gcc, namely services and some industrial sectors.
but it is also true that the mandate to negotiate this agreement is a very old mandate, it is a mandate which does not contain the necessary clauses to concentrate on issues which are key in today's world such as, for example, human rights, labour issues or environmental issues.
and what, by the way, is the environmental concern of such major oil-producing countries as the gulf cooperation council?
are you interested in climate change or are you interested in the price of oil?
looking ahead, i share the commissioner's view that the challenges of globalisation, ageing and climate change in the internal dimension will require welcoming new countries, intensifying coordination to implement the lisbon strategy and evolving to ensure the stability of capital markets.
their economic integration is a positive benchmark for building an open, reliable and sustainable economy on a global scale.
it will also help to unite efforts in addressing financial stability, climate change and human development needs.
understandably, our focus in asia is drawn again and again to china, but our partnership with asean should be no less engaged, whether we are dealing with questions of sustainable development, of society or trade.
a final point on sustainable development.
we hope to include environmental and social aspects in our negotiations with asean, and we will do that in a cooperative spirit.
in addition we have contracted an external consultant to conduct a sustainable impact assessment to analyse the likely impact of the envisaged agreement on various issues, including environmental and social concerns.
and on the other hand, compliance with international conventions on social, labour and environmental matters, and in particular, we stress, the fight against child labour.
also, foster collaboration in the energy sector, r&d, environment, climate change and sustainable development, as well as in the socio-cultural field and development cooperation.
another issue seems to be, and is, the need to tackle the problem of waste by managing it better.
i would remind you that we held a hearing on this matter in our committee and that the experts insisted on the need for the international council for the exploration of the sea to identify for each species the stocks that can be exploited in a sustainable way and called for more scientific rigor in the sampling plans and for more concise data.
i wonder whether the committee on the environment, in its report, has decided to criticise the socialist group.
because you were speaking on behalf of the environment committee.
i believe that we can only go further with the amendment of the substantive law of the european union, with the new constitutional rules; but this parliament, together with the council and the commission, is doing everything possible to establish the law of environmental protection with criminal rules, in accordance with the old council of europe convention, which had provided for the establishment of criminal liability for infringement of environmental rules.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'.
- the mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr papadimoulis, for his excellent contribution to the work on the mercury export ban regulation, and the members of the committee on the environment for their positive and constructive contribution.
the regulation will prevent exports of surplus mercury to third countries and its diversion to illegal activities such as gold mining, which contribute significantly to the accumulation of mercury in the environment.
parliament's efforts to further increase the scope and improve the wording of this legislative initiative have paid off and ensured that the regulation - in the form agreed - will become an effective means of protecting the health of our citizens and the environment.
international negotiations are also under way within the framework of the united nations environment programme and the adoption of this regulation will send a strong message to the european union's efforts to tackle the problem.
moreover, the mine has the capacity to store all the liquid mercury in the european union, at a depth of 200 metres, in an enclave of highly waterproofed quartzite and volcanic rock, as was confirmed by the director for sustainable development and integration of the european commission's dg environment, mr mäkelä, and the slovenian minister for the environment, who visited the area in march 2007.
member of the commission.
the dismantling of ships on these shores is often carried out in appalling conditions, with no protection against pollution and with the lives of workers at risk.
when ships arrive at their destination, this waste is disposed of in a dangerous and environmentally harmful way.
however, the basel convention and the community regulation on shipments of waste are very often violated on the pretext that this is the last voyage of the vessel and are rarely respected by the countries of destination.
in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr blokland, for his efforts, and mr hammerstein and mr evans and the other honourable members of the committees on the environment, industry and transport for their contributions.
the european union cannot wait for a change in international rules, it must act now, lead the change, strengthen green ship scrapping audits and create an economic fund with industry to internalize the environmental costs and also to help the southern communities, who have already suffered a lot from the environmental and health costs of this problem.
no, they are hazardous waste and we are exporting that hazardous waste, which is prohibited by european legislation.
that is a value that should not be concluded, because it is clear, and so say the scientists, that climate change is a great uncertainty that we have in front of us, that is, that science is advancing and changing its opinions as it walks, so we cannot turn science into absolute truths.
we have to apply to ourselves an absolute discipline for the environmental impact, the economic impact and the feasibility of the solutions.
now, i also say: we must apply a combined policy, and in this respect the document must take a further step in the second part, with decisions taken from above, from the states, but without forgetting that the issue of climate change has to be solved by adaptation in the territories.
so we have to start opening up to a policy of high climate change awareness from above, combined with a policy from below, from industry, from sectors, from agriculture, from the territory, so that each country can make its own project adapted to the general.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we also have many overlapping interests in the field of energy security, one of the great challenges of our time.
− as is known, the european council in june 2007 invited the secretary-general, high representative javier solana and the european commission to present a joint document on the impact of climate change on international security.
it identifies potential threats and forms of conflict that could arise in different parts of the world as a result of climate change.
these measures would, inter alia, aim at strengthening cooperation with third countries and regions in the light of climate change and international security.
i would like to stress that this document does not take the european union away from the common approach to climate change that we all know.
on the contrary, it highlights a new and extremely important aspect of climate change which will be inevitable in future discussions at different levels.
as the honourable member will be aware, the european council at its spring 2007 meeting endorsed the european union's 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
this is intended to be the union's contribution to the global and comprehensive agreement for the period after 2012. the european council also underlined the european union's commitment to transforming europe into an energy-efficient and low-greenhouse-gas-emitting economy.
it decided that, pending the conclusion of a global and comprehensive agreement for the period after 2012, the european union would seek to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions unilaterally by at least 20% by 2020 compared to 1990. in the context of the climate and energy package, the parliament and the council are currently discussing the contribution of each member state to the achievement of the above-mentioned community objective.
in addition to mitigating the effects of climate change, international climate negotiations will also focus on adaptation to change, new technologies and the provision of financial resources.
in june 2007, the european commission published a green paper entitled 'adapting to climate change in europe - the possibilities for european union action'.
the council welcomed this report and found no disagreement or objection with respect to other council decisions, including those in the field of climate protection and energy policy.
mr president, i would like to take advantage of the council's reply to our colleague's question to suggest that, precisely in the framework of the union for the mediterranean, we should also tackle the question of climate change.
one of the proposals in the communication presented by the european commission is to strengthen the horizon 2020 initiative to clean up the mediterranean region, which is both a victim and a cause of climate change, and this proposal is undoubtedly a very pragmatic way of acting.
does the council not consider that this is a regional priority in the fight against climate change within the framework of the overall agenda that the european union has set itself?
we all recognise that animal disease outbreaks can have devastating consequences: they can pose a serious risk to public health; they can damage public confidence in farming in general and in animal products in particular; they can trigger heavy economic costs – just remember that in 2001 the foot-and-mouth crisis cost over eur 13 billion in the uk alone – and animal disease outbreaks can also lead to animal welfare and environmental problems.
it features a strong focus on animal-health-related aspects of public health, food safety, animal welfare, agriculture, trade, sustainable development and research.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
mr buzek spoke of the fight against climate change.
it's obvious that if you requalify amounts in development to work on climate change, you're obviously going to mortgage everything that you've done or everything that you planned to do in conventional development.
new and additional means are therefore needed to tackle climate change.
mr president, i will read out the oral amendment proposed by my group, the pse group:reminds that the main objective of the cap is to ensure market stabilisation, security of supply and reasonable prices for consumers, and underlines the need for the cap after 2013 in order to ensure the sustainability of the eu's food policy while respecting the sustainability, safety and quality of agricultural products;i want to say that we expressly waive the last part of the paragraph, as the ppe group asked us to support this amendment.
but if transparency means more audits, more consultations, more controls - in short, more waste of money and time in bureaucratic matters, which rather than facilitating hinder the work of many people, then transparency plays against efficiency.
this interparliamentary meeting has placed an emphasis on climate change in order to push for a common approach to the implementation of the kyoto protocol and what comes next.
another priority horizontal aspect is energy security.
given the high external dependence of the member states, it is necessary to move towards a common external energy policy of the union.
in addition, the obvious global nature of climate change requires the union to step up its external action to achieve an effective response to this threat.
it is also worth noting that countries can apply for inclusion in the special scheme for stimulating sustainable development, i.e.
the jpa has led the way in economic partnership agreements, which are instruments in the service of acp countries' development and regional integration policy and a means of their progressive inclusion in the global economy in a sustainable way.
my group insists that these agreements should include the possibility of renegotiating issues such as services, intellectual property and the so-called 'singapore issues': investment, competition and public markets, as well as labour and social standards and other issues relating to sustainable development.
and so is the sustainability of fisheries resources, the primary source of healthy food, in a time of food crisis.
no company in any sector can survive in such an economic environment, and yet it is a proven fact that when there is the political will to keep a close eye on imports, as has happened in the past, and i can vouch for that, the prices paid to community producers recover immediately.
we think it is right that if there is a chance encounter with a potentially vulnerable marine ecosystem, the vessel should stop fishing and inform the competent authorities.
all this is done not only to ensure the sustainability of the marine environment, but also to safeguard the fishing activities necessary for our food.
the memorandum of understanding, madam president, that our president signed with the iaea, the international atomic energy agency in vienna, is about safety and security.
i personally agree and everyone should agree, because we cannot let the member states choose their own energy sources.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology.
the vote will take place at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the following is the report by horst schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 11 on the elimination of discrimination in respect of transport prices and conditions, in application of article 79 (3) of the treaty establishing the european economic community, and regulation (ec) no 852/2004 of the european parliament and of the council on the hygiene of foodstuffs (com (2007) 0090 - c6-0211/2007 - 2007/0037b (cod)) (a6-0143/2008).
firstly, as mrs lienemann has said before, sustainability is a process, and water treatment, improving its quality, water policy, is a process that we have embarked on for many years.
mr president, i welcome the initiative of the committee on the environment, which joins many others of the committee on regional development in this parliament, which are not always well understood.
it is also paradoxical that matters affecting the environment, regional policy and agriculture are in the hands of the finance ministers.
as you rightly state in your report, tropical deforestation is a matter of concern for us all and i consider that a distinction should be made here between two aspects: deforestation and climate change on the one hand and combating illegal exploitation of forests on the other.
in bali, the international community clearly identified the destruction of forests as one of the main causes of climate change.
in keeping with the spirit of the un climate change conference the commission intends to contribute eur 5 million in 2008 to the forest carbon partnership facility, which is run by the world bank.
an additional eur 60 million will be earmarked up to 2010 to finance the global alliance against climate change, an initiative we launched last year to underpin the efforts of the poorest countries to adapt to climate change.
in relation to fisheries policy, as you rightly emphasised, the new fisheries partnership agreements have brought about greater coherence between the common fisheries policy and development policy; these new agreements are no longer confined to offering fishing opportunities to community vessels, but also make it possible to embark on a dialogue with other partners in order to help them introduce a real sustainable and responsible fisheries policy in their waters.
− energy issues were high on the agenda during the slovenian presidency of the council of the european union.
the reliability of supply in the functioning of energy markets and the sustainable management of the environment are issues of strategic importance for the european union and its citizens.
it is also becoming increasingly clear that energy is a sector that must offer new knowledge and new services if the european economy is to remain competitive in the world.
more than a year ago, heads of government and member states committed themselves to sustainable goals and to strengthening efficient energy markets.
its main objective, the main objective of this package, is to continue the process of liberalising energy markets and to increase their efficiency and transparency.
the slovenian presidency achieved broad support for the key elements of the five legislative proposals at the energy council on 6 june.
the most important element of this broad consensus is certainly the third option of the organisation of energy companies.
in doing so, account should be taken of the interests of third countries and their companies, which seek good partnerships with energy companies in the member states.
in addition, the type of energy investments already undertaken on both sides will also need to be analysed.
however, exactly at a time of high prices, we need to ensure truly effective competition on our energy markets to guarantee that the effects of these prices on our citizens are as limited as possible.
furthermore, a functioning internal market is one of the key elements of the eu’s efforts to tackle climate change.
without competitive electricity and gas markets, an emissions trading scheme will never work properly and our aims regarding renewable energy will quite simply fail.
indeed, in the vidal-quadras report of 10 july 2007, the european parliament showed its determination in achieving such an ambitious policy in the field of energy.
a number of amendments also usefully clarify or complement the commission’s proposal, in particular as regards the role of the network operator, the powers of national regulators and an effectively well-functioning and secure internal energy market.
i again would like to emphasis that the protection of vulnerable customers and the fight against energy poverty are essential to the implementation of market opening and should definitely be strengthened.
as you know, the commission will shortly propose to member states an energy consumer checklist designed to help collect and deliver relevant information to consumers about their energy markets.
indeed, i agree that possible new consumer rights need to be introduced into the ongoing legislative process and that the purpose of the charter is to better communicate on energy consumer rights and thus render them more well-known with consumers.
in addition, the citizens’ energy forum will be the driving force to establish competitive retail markets in the eu, while at the same time ensuring that vulnerable consumers are protected.
following the conference on the rights of energy consumers on 6 may, the commission has launched a process of consultation with all parties concerned.
on energy efficiency and promotion of renewables, the commission fully shares the concerns of the committee on industry, research and energy, but we believe that the internal market directive is not the best place to discuss this subject.
they will be essential for moving towards truly integrated energy markets in years rather than decades.
the council reached a broad agreement on all essential parts of the package at the energy council of 6 june.
let me stress that at the energy council of 6 june the commission formally reserved its position on the package, notably to take into account your vote tomorrow.
i look forward to continuing to work together with you on these proposals in the coming months in the interest of european energy consumers.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
some of mrs morgan's ideas are more controversial, such as social tariffs to tackle the problem of energy poverty, because doing so would risk interfering with markets.
it is clear that large vertically integrated companies hinder the entry of new competitors into the market and, in particular, the development and installation of renewable energy sources.
all this takes us away from the objectives of competitiveness and the fight against climate change that we have set ourselves as europeans.
i therefore call on the minority opposed to the separation to put aside national interests, which are perishable in the short term, and to take steps to move forward in the direction of building an energy-strong and secure europe.
and finally, i would like to stress that while access to the renewable energy grid is essential to achieving our objectives, it is equally essential to increase electricity interconnection capacity, especially for those countries which are more isolated in our energy market.
we in the council certainly agree that the situation in the internal energy market is not good, not satisfactory.
the question of poverty and energy poverty was mentioned several times.
this is a very important question, especially in the face of soaring energy prices.
however, the fact is that this is the responsibility and duty of individual member states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and this has also been emphasised by mr hökmark and some others that member states are obliged to ensure that the poorest also have access to energy.
in particular, it requires that consumers be adequately informed about their energy consumption, about the costs involved, and that they be informed frequently enough to be able to regulate their consumption.
perhaps a word about renewable resources.
our package, the council's package, provides for priority access to the grid for energy from renewable sources.
this is particularly important in light of our ambition to reach an agreement on the climate and energy package as early as 2009. i note from this debate that the positions of the council and the european parliament are not very different.
the energy market has only recently started to develop and it takes some time to put into place, but i believe that today’s debate really shows that the commission proposal addresses all the main areas correctly.
there are a couple of issues where i believe we are going beyond just an energy market proposal.
i believe the energy charter is more closely related to subsidiarity.
we are an energy island that needs more interconnections.
for example, council directive 76/160/eec on the quality of bathing water or council directive 91/271/ec on the treatment of urban waste water.
we are also discussing another issue at this moment, which is emissions trading.
all this comes after the council recently addressed the issue of rising energy prices in its many meetings in various formations, and which we discussed under the previous agenda item.
it noted the need to promote energy efficiency through the use of alternative energy sources, increase the transparency of oil markets, promote competition in energy markets and strengthen dialogue with oil-producing countries.
this means not only providing the possibility of emergency relief, but also committing to finally addressing the underlying issue of overcapacity, which is undermining all our attempts to get the industry back on a sustainable and profitable footing.
additional aid for temporary cessation would be available for vessels involved in these fleet adjustment schemes and partial decommissioning aid would be granted to operators who replace larger old vessels with smaller, more energy-efficient ones.
further measures are planned to encourage the shift to energy-saving technologies, cushion the socioeconomic impact of the crisis, and facilitate the reprogramming and the disbursement of eff funds.
the report by mr aylward correctly characterizes the sector, points out its decisive importance for fixing population in the most sensitive and vulnerable territories and for maintaining the natural environment in which it develops.
we have successfully coordinated four legislative proposals and will therefore improve the single market in this area which promotes european innovation and competitiveness while ensuring a high level of food safety and environmental protection.
the various bilateral energy agreements with russia with little coordination with the european union are also bad news for a strong european foreign policy that speaks with one voice.
first of all, we must demand the decisive application of the precautionary principle, with a thorough environmental assessment that also considers all alternatives and strict compliance with all international standards.
the best way to guarantee our energy security is to have a coordinated european policy with high environmental standards.
- mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, we in the committee on the environment welcome in principle the european strategic plan for energy technology insofar as it contributes to the shaping of a common energy market, to the shaping of support for the lisbon strategy and, above all, to the fight against climate change.
we regret, however, that it is focusing more on supply-side measures than on demand reduction, particularly through energy saving and efficiency, and we call for these aspects of energy saving and efficiency to be strengthened.
to this end, we call for a hierarchy of european industrial initiatives where efforts are concentrated on those with the greatest potential for reducing emissions in the short term, 20% by 2020, without, of course, compromising the long term, in order to achieve the 2050 target.
in these priorities, we also think that the life cycle of each technology and its environmental impact on production must be taken into account and that transfer to developing economies must also be considered to reduce the technology gap.
we also believe that it is necessary to extend industrial initiatives to other sectors with potential for reducing emissions, such as cogeneration, hydrogen, the housing construction sector, heating and cooling systems, and also the improvement of energy storage and distribution infrastructures.
finally, we would like to say that we believe that the funds for these technologies should be part of the discussion on the future of the financing of european policies and, to do so, we should require the member states to increase their efforts at least to the same extent as they did in response to the energy crisis of the 1980s.
mr president, tomorrow we shall vote on the second and final part of the third legislative package on the liberalisation of the energy market, that is to say, the part concerning the gas sector.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
mr president, commissioners, madam president-in-office of the council, i shall begin with the european strategic plan for energy technology, congratulating mr buzek and thanking him for the incorporation of amendments from my group which we consider to be fundamental.
it is very important that we have succeeded in giving greater prominence to technologies that make it possible to increase energy efficiency and to research as a whole, making full use of the potential offered by the european research area.
the report reinforces the research and basic sciences needed to advance energy technologies and calls on the private sector to invest more in research and take more risks to put the european union at the forefront of this sector.
coordination should be extended to all fields involved in r & d in energy technologies, given their multidisciplinary nature, especially information and communication technologies.
- mr president, for lack of time i have not been able to thank the rapporteur, mr buzek, for his generosity in including the proposals which were made by the committee on the environment, particularly those relating to energy efficiency, the life cycle of the various forms of energy and, in particular, those relating to human resources and training and cooperation with developing countries.
we cannot and should not back down, but stand by our commitment to an open investment environment.
- mr president, it is true that the european council in march 2007 approved the objective of achieving a minimum share of 10% of biofuels in total transport gasoline and diesel consumption by 2020. however, at the same time the council set out certain preconditions: first, that the objective could be achieved at reasonable cost, that the production of biofuels was sustainable, that second generation biofuels were placed on the market and that the fuel quality directive was amended accordingly to provide for appropriate levels of blending.
in january 2008, the commission therefore adopted a proposal for a directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources.
it would oblige each member state to ensure that the share of energy produced from renewable sources in the transport sector in 2020 is at least equal to 10%, as you know, of its final energy consumption in the transport sector, and this obligation would not only apply to biofuels.
it also noted the need to assess as soon as possible the possible impacts of these policies on agricultural products for food and to take measures, if necessary, to deal with any problems, and the european council also agreed to continue the assessment of the environmental, social and production and consumption impacts of biofuels, both within and outside the european union, in the context of our contacts with our international partners.
we are therefore looking carefully at the commission's proposals, both for the sustainability criteria and for the monitoring and evaluation system.
- mr president, the method of calculating greenhouse gas emission reductions, and in particular the choices underlying this method, will take into account fuel consumption.
as regards what mrs mcguinness has said, i think you are right - and that is also the intention of the presidency - we must make sure that we move more towards more sustainable agricultural production to avoid the excesses that may have occurred in a number of areas, and you mentioned the american example in particular, which is not wrong.
we want to develop, under our presidency, initiatives which will lead to a more sustainable agricultural production system.
as you know, these regions have much in common with the outermost regions: remoteness, isolation from the territory of the european union, vulnerability to climate change and, of course, everything that has to do with transport, whether by air or sea, the management of migration flows, agricultural policy and maritime policy.
as you know, the french presidency is particularly involved in these matters; and as proof, an important meeting, which began yesterday and will end on 11 july in reunion, will be on strategies to address climate change and biodiversity loss in these outermost regions and overseas countries and territories.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my appreciation to the commission for bringing the solutions to the problems of mobility - such as road safety in cities, co-management or environmental impact - closer to the citizens, who, by an overwhelming majority, perceive and suffer them in cities.
we are holding this debate today in the context of the strong debate on measures to combat climate change and on the eve of the great debate on the internationalisation of costs in the various modes of transport.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of smart transport systems by requiring their accessibility and interoperability, through flexible instruments and by encouraging active participation in local mobility forums.
the summit will take place in the second half of 2008. it is our responsibility to prepare it in the best possible conditions, and this summit must be an opportunity to extend the partnership between china and the european union to new themes, which relate in particular to the fight against climate change, environmental standards and social standards - as many of you have stressed.
china's desire to play a greater role on the international stage must be accompanied by new responsibilities: in the field of human rights, in the social field, in the environmental field.
apart from the environment, trade, culture – whatever the various sectoral talks and dialogues that we have – we also take the concerns with regard to human rights that have been particularly expressed here today very seriously.
i need to underline the fact that with regard to cephalopods we do have problems concerning the sustainability and the health of the stock.
this means not only providing the possibility of emergency relief but committing to finally addressing the underlying issue of overcapacity, which is undermining all our attempts to get the industry back on a sustainable and profitable footing.
additional aid for temporary cessation, as well as modernisation and energy efficiency, would be available for vessels involved in such schemes.
partial decommissioning aid would be granted to operators who replace larger old vessels with smaller, more energy-efficient ones.
further measures are planned to encourage the shift to energy-saving technologies, cushion the socioeconomic impact of the crisis, and facilitate the reprogramming and the disbursement of eff funds.
finally, and very importantly, let me express my belief that throughout this process we can give further impetus to the common fisheries policy, in particular in the context of resource sustainability.
(the speaker continued his speech in basque)
mr president, the priorities of the french presidency of the union are realistic priorities which, in my view, are well placed to respond, as mr durão barroso, president of the commission, said, to the criticisms of a europe that is impotent and unable to respond to the daily concerns of our citizens: the constitutional problem, the prices of food and energy products, the europe of defence and immigration.
that is also why the commission is grateful to the committee on industry, research and energy for trying to make the telecom rules more investment-friendly, especially as regards the large investments that are needed to modernise the old copper wires by putting fast optical fibre network into place.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the telecommunications sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
i would simply ask the council, in this final period until the end of the present presidency, to give this 'telecoms' package at least the same priority as it gives to energy - which is very important, but this package is no less important - so that we can move forward from this point of equilibrium which we have found and which my colleague mr trautmann has just pointed out.
what we have seen over the years is an accumulation of bans or controls on advertising – cigarettes, alcohol, fatty food – and soon there will be new rules for how car manufacturers advertise co2 emissions.
a more favourable economic environment would trigger a 'calling effect' of investments from other parts of the world, multiplying the benefit to their economy.
i think that consumer concerns have been addressed with the problem of marketing information data tapes (midt), including also the train related developments and the emissions aspects, which are novel and respond to this new problem.
in this context, it is worth mentioning the advances in navigation technologies, logistical telecommunications and exploitation, the commitment to reduce pollution and greenhouse gases, the attraction of new investments or the necessary updating of the training of human capital that manages and serves them.
but ports also face the challenge of maintaining a dialogue and coordinated action with their respective environments, neighbours, cities and regions, and of developing the best possible interconnections and commonality with the rest of the transport modes, all for the mutual benefit and in pursuit of the most harmonious and sustainable spatial planning.
for that future we need an integrated european policy to boost regional competitiveness and territorial cohesion, to redouble efforts to reduce water pollution and co2 emissions, and to call for the replacement of diesel fuel for ships by 2020. we need port authorities to cooperate with each other and with local and regional authorities and with associations in the transport sector, not only maritime and inland waterway but also rail, air and road.
we are in contact with the commission to publish in 2008 guidelines on state aid to ports, distinguishing between access and defence infrastructure, which should be exempt, and operating infrastructure and superstructure, and to exclude from state aid those aimed at environmental improvements or decongestion and reduced use of roads, and where they are essential, as in the case of islands, to ensure cohesion.
i also thank mr cramer, the rapporteur, for his willingness to engage in constructive dialogue, which has resulted in a more inclusive text in which logistics must not only contribute to the sustainability of transport in general, and of goods in particular, but also to improve mobility by including logistics solutions for all modes of transport and supporting green corridors as exemplary projects for mobility and commonality.
finally, i would like to draw the commission's attention to the proposal to achieve by the end of this year a programme to strengthen cooperation between the member states' national logistics plans, which would help to prepare more effective formulas to alleviate the current shortage of resources and to meet the needs of a key sector at this time, at this juncture, when fuel prices, the demands of the fight against climate change, the peripheries induced by enlargement and the dangerousness of working conditions in part of the sector make the implementation of smart, innovative and attractive solutions all the more urgent, which can only be provided by an ambitious european logistics action plan.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out the large number of members who have chosen in this debate to link up with other environmental problems and it seems to me that they are right and that by doing so you are in fact calling for more coordination, more integration between the various environmental policies.
i have noticed, for example, that mrs ek, mrs țicǎu and even mr kuźmiuk have mentioned climate change, although they were speaking in a different direction, that mr wojciechowski has mentioned agricultural problems, and that mrs estrela has also mentioned the urban waste water directive.
all these topics are linked, and this apparent complexity should be an additional motivation for us to look into these environmental health issues.
this is done on the existing directives, on which we are working - the ippc directive, the draft sols directive, the energy-climate package, since i have mentioned the link with climate change.
mrs ferreira asked me whether there was a link, for example in france at national level, between the grenelle environmental plan and this european plan.
in the environmental grille we have been working a lot on environmental health issues and to find the same problem as those implicitly raised by both of you.
in the environmental area, for example, we have plans to refer to all nanoparticles, to introduce a mandatory reporting process for nanoparticles placed on the market, or to better regulate, monitor indoor air quality and better regulate all decoration and furniture products, some of which are problematic for indoor air quality.
mrs ferreira, you also asked whether there is coordination, whether there is coordination between the national health and environmental plans and the european plan.
- the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank you for the constructive discussion we have had on the important issue of the relationship between the environment and health.
the recent developments and initiatives undertaken by the commission on the specific issues of the environment-health relationship are very important and show that, alongside the cooperation which is under way in the medium- to long-term between the environment, health and research sectors, immediate steps can be taken to further integrate the health dimension into environmental policy for the benefit of both the environment and health.
as regards the coordination referred to by one of the speakers, coordination between the various national action plans on environment and health is ensured through the environment and health forum under the auspices of the european commission on the one hand and through the world health organization on the other, in whose work the commission is actively involved.
the relationship between climate change and health is clearly among the issues of growing importance, according to the mid-term review, and i am pleased that it has been highlighted by many speakers today.
this will be covered in the white paper on adaptation to climate change that is soon to be adopted.
on a point which is not entirely relevant to the subject under discussion but which is very important for the energy and climate change package and which was made by our polish colleague, i must say and make it absolutely clear that any increase in electricity prices in poland, as well as in other countries which have regulated electricity prices, will not be due to the introduction of the auctioning institution in the european greenhouse gas emission allowance system, but will be due either to the need for further investment in the energy sector because there will be no investors if they do not have a corresponding prospect of gaining from their investment in the energy sector and also liberalisation of the energy sector and the liberalisation of the european union energy market.
the contribution of climate change and climate change mitigation through the carbon trading system will be around 15%; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
i must make it absolutely clear that any money needed to buy carbon dioxide emission allowances will remain in the country in question, for example in poland; and not only that, but poland will also have the additional advantage of about one billion euros that will come from the redistribution that will be made of the allowances that will be auctioned in the european union countries whose per capita income is above the european union average.
the action plan is an effective means of bringing together all those involved in the fields of environment, health and research at member state and community level with a view to taking the relationship between environment and health into account more effectively in environmental policy-making.
written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the progress of the framework directive on soil protection in the council by mr miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0070/2008 - b6-0455/2008).
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr ouzky, the sixth community action programme on the environment recognises that soil is a limited resource, subject to environmental constraints, and provides for the unambiguous definition of a thematic strategy for soil protection which takes account of the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of regional diversity, which everyone understands.
i do not understand how governments concerned about climate change can go against a directive which deals with the problems of soil, the earth, climate change, which promotes disaster prevention, supports reforestation, agriculture, productivity and respects all previous agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, commissioner, all the important natural resources and resources, water, air, species and habitats of flora and fauna, have specific community rules, whereas soil, as a scarce resource - as mrs minister has just said - and not renewable, does not have any.
it is therefore urgent to solve this imbalance which affects us all, and even more so in times of food scares or of debates on fundamental energy and economic alternatives, which are essentially based on the soil.
the unfinished community legislation would serve to give value to the measures we have been advocating in the fight against climate change, in aspects such as combating increasing erosion, desertification, without forgetting the serious problem of soil pollution, or the sealing of these same soils by an unsustainable rampant urbanism, which is not only at the root of the current economic crisis, but devours a resource as fundamental as the soil.
moreover, the involvement of the european institutional regulatory system in this area would provide an incentive to improve what is being done in the legislative procedure, by framing it in a coherent framework and supporting it with regulation and, possibly, with resources of european origin, which we could also 'say' link to the resources generated in the fight against climate change.
we must not forget that the risks to this finite and non-renewable resource affect to a greater or lesser extent the whole territory in all the countries of the european union, with not a few cross-border effects.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources.
the role of soil as a reserve of raw materials and a carbon store, not to mention the co2 storage proposals currently under discussion, or the impacts that may be expected in the legislation on water scarcity, would also be very important.
in this way, member states would have specific regulation for soil protection in order to protect the environment, but also to combat climate change and the deforestation and desertification that is taking place.
i stress that, while this political impasse remains, soil degradation is continuing, as has been made very clear by the scientific community, for instance at a high-level conference on soil and climate change recently organised by the commission.
a third of the environmental requests in the european union come from spain.
we have particularly emphasized petitions which reflect citizens' concern for the environment and its protection and those which refer to the water directives, the right to property and the rights of minorities.
one of the most important cases of recent years, of 2007 and also of recent years, has been the petition concerning the baltic way, on a road passing through an area protected by community law; the european commission and the court of justice have already acted in an exemplary manner to avoid irreparable damage to the environment.
it must also reach all organizations and institutions, as i said, public and private, for-profit and not-for-profit, and all aspects of life, and especially it must promote social innovation and innovation in the service of environmental sustainability.
it should also be about new challenges, for example climate change and high and volatile food, fuel and commodity prices in the light of the global economic downturn and even financial crisis.
the commission is currently exploring whether more qualitative data on the application of eu law can be presented, possibly with a special focus on sectors where problems of good application of eu law appear to be the most acute including – as was mentioned – the energy and transport sectors.
i want to express my gratitude to him and to the committee on agriculture and rural development for this report, which really highlights the importance of hill and mountain farming to the european union – he spoke of a percentage of territories – but also the importance of farming contributing to environmental protection, delivering quality products and maintaining cultural landscapes as part of our european heritage.
furthermore, these regions benefit from several other rural-development measures, such as agri-environmental payments, for maintaining transhumance and pastoralism practice; support for quality agricultural products and promotion of on-farm diversification like farm tourism.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
during the year of innovation and creativity, innovation should reach all organisations and institutions, public and private, for-profit and not-for-profit, and in all aspects of life, in particular to promote social innovation and innovation for environmental sustainability.
finally, the culture of cooperation, networking and the deployment of tools and methods aimed at creating in them the dynamic capacities that allow them to evolve with the environment, generate cutting-edge research and visible results in terms of competitiveness and value creation for society should be extended.
the whole burden therefore falls on the member state concerned, which is ultimately the victim of the ecological and social damage which may result from hosting a vessel in a place of refuge, in addition to having to deal with the coverage of such damage.
in this case, i think it is the aspects of safety: precisely that safety in relation to the environmental impact, which, let us say, gave rise to the great movement, but also safety, at this moment, in relation to the responsibilities of the different actors, identifying and clarifying what they are and how to act in relation to them, setting milestones or foundations for the future fight against piracy and, even more importantly, making progress in improving the working and social conditions, as well as the professional conditions, of maritime workers.
the first pillar is promoting sustainable growth and jobs.
the copenhagen meeting will be a major global rendezvous with a view to reaching a global climate-change agreement for post-2012/post-kyoto.
europe must prepare its ground well and also maintain its role as a pioneer on climate change; we will also need to pursue work on how to assist with adapting to the impact of climate change so that we can be the leaders in development of smart growth.
it is also one of the largest investors in this country and in several key sectors of its economy: energy, transport and telecommunications in particular, and the summits we have held have made a decisive contribution to the deepening of our relations.
we also want to strengthen our cooperation with india in areas that correspond to the current priorities of the union, the fight against climate change and energy.
firstly, we want to adopt at this summit a renewed action plan, which is shorter and more operational and which will enable us to adapt our partnership to the new challenges of energy security and sustainable development.
we also want to strengthen our prospects for cooperation in the field of research and new technologies, solar energy or the iter project, for example.
this action plan should be complemented by the adoption of a work programme on energy, clean development and climate change, and should include cooperation on energy efficiency, clean coal and the deployment of renewable energy.
so the three documents we will adopt at this summit - i remind you: the revised joint action plan, the energy work programme and the prospect of agreement mentioned above - are being negotiated with the indian side, as is the joint press release.
science and technology activities and exchanges have intensified and they have also been lifted to ministerial level; new dialogues have been created; an eu-india energy panel has been established; and the international thermonuclear experimental reactor – the so-called iter agreement – to which both india and the eu are party, is now in force.
so we have achieved a good deal, but there is more to do, and we believe that our relations should be guided by the promotion of peace, human rights and comprehensive security, sustainable development with environmental considerations, social equity and economic prosperity, and the strengthening of cultural and educational exchanges.
climate change and energy are also summit priorities for us, and we hope to sign a joint work programme on energy, clean development and climate change focused on renewable and clean energies, together with two climate-change-related european investment bank loans.
i believe that in the treaty there are also general provisions for support for lithuania’s transformations in the energy sector – an overall package, if i am not mistaken, of eur 1.3 billion, and this should address areas that could strengthen the supply of energy resources to lithuania, by strengthening interconnections, by financing energy efficiency measures, by financing alternative supplies.
that is why we asked the operator, together with the slovak nuclear energy control authorities, to take some supplementary measures that would guarantee that, even if a nuclear power plant was targeted in this way, it would sustain no permanent damage.
having said this, clear regulatory policy is paramount not only to spur growth in the biofuel industry but also to avoid negative effects on the environment.
the proposed directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources clearly specifies that the contribution made by biofuels produced from waste, residues and non-food cellulosic material shall be considered to be twice that made by other biofuels, when counting towards national biofuels obligations.
research should include technically and economically based pilot studies to ensure not only an attractive economic benefit-cost ratio but also one that yields net benefits toward the community’s goals of curtailing climate change and affordable food prices for all citizens of the world.
so commission policy and the commission proposal were really tailored to the need to develop second-generation biofuels, the need to use also, if necessary, those of the first generation, but in a sustainable way.
so it is not that we are discouraging it, but i believe that if there is no clear sustainability requirement the damage done by one unsuccessful project will be to the detriment of the whole industry, because the focus is so strong now on biofuels that we cannot afford to have any unsuccessful projects, because that would mean the end of the whole industry.
the next item is the report by alessandro foglietta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the white paper 'a european strategy on health problems related to diet, overweight and obesity' (2007/2285 (ini)) (a6-0256/2008).
i want to stress that there are various programmes and projects in the european union which mutually reinforce the white paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity – such as the green paper on urban mobility or the white paper on sport, both aimed at a healthier lifestyle and a healthier environment.
for this reason, a recommendation seems the most appropriate means to facilitate the shift of the creative content sector to the online environment.
and so there was a sense of frustration that we could experience on the front lines, seeing that, in the end, all that effort and all that energy had produced no concrete result, although they had reached a level of approach that seemed to imply some kind of result.
without closing the doha round multilateralism is in serious jeopardy and, above all, in a situation of global uncertainty such as we are experiencing, as long as the doha round is not closed, the other fronts that the global agenda demands of us in the field of climate change and in the field of food price increases cannot be opened.
- mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, water scarcity and drought are a major problem for the world, and it is clear that climate change will exacerbate this problem and lead to serious water shortages.
this trend was confirmed by another report on the impacts of europe's changing climate, adopted by the european environment agency last week.
global warming, a growing population, and rising per capita consumption mean that water resources are under increasing pressure.
these have a direct impact on the population and on water-dependent economic sectors such as agriculture, tourism, industry, energy and transport.
they also have negative side effects on biodiversity, water quality, increased risk of forest fires and land depletion.
the latest eurobarometer survey on public attitudes to climate change indicates that 62% of europeans rank climate change and global warming as the two most serious global problems, that 68% of europeans consider 'poverty, lack of food and drinking water' to be the most serious problem, and in this context it is encouraging that the concerns expressed by citizens are also reflected in their actions: 61% of europeans say they are themselves involved in the fight against climate change, and more than half of them are reducing their water consumption in their households.
i am glad that this project incorporates some of the reflections made in the opinion i was rapporteur for in the committee on agriculture, in favour of an agricultural activity, by highlighting, for example, the role of farmers in the sustainable management of available resources.
it also includes a reference to drought and water scarcity as factors aggravating commodity prices, which i think is also very important to note in this day and age so that we are aware not only of the environmental dimension of this problem but also of some of its most important economic consequences.
the committee on the environment also included the idea of setting up a european drought observatory, an action which is also mentioned in the opinion of the committee on agriculture and which i hope will one day be reflected in concrete deeds.
i would like to make it clear that i will continue to advocate the creation of this fund, an idea which i will put to parliament again when the commission's communication on adaptation to climate change is due in the coming months.
it seems to me that, after the solidarity fund was set up, which was originally set up to help alleviate the losses caused by climate disasters, it is time to think about an instrument which acts a priori and is intended to finance preventive measures to reduce the environmental and economic cost of these climate disasters.
mr president, i welcome the fact that there is a document on water, although i think that this document has unfortunately, and because of the climate change, been reduced to a partial and very specific view of the subject, which is water conservation.
i have to say, however, that i think we have to start thinking in terms of water and climate change with a big picture.
there are three problems in the world right now: one of them is hunger and food shortages, another is climate change, and another is drought, which is an evil that has been with us for many centuries.
the important thing is that the world remains sustainable, thinking about people and the economy.
i must congratulate the rapporteur, mr seeber, on his great work and also thank him for his active participation and presence in the debates on europe's environment day at the 2008 international exhibition in my city, zaragoza.
i should like to thank him because it was at this exhibition that the european union, through mr seeber, was able to express its concern for the sustainability of water and to set out the needs, from the european union and from the european parliament, and the problems affecting the european union.
i should also say that today we know that the problems of water scarcity are closely linked to the cycle of combating climate change, because in that cycle we know that aggressive deforestation and urbanisation contribute to the scarcity of those water resources, and therefore the competent authorities must take account of water-related considerations in their planning of the various land uses and, in particular, in relation to the development of economic activities in increasingly sensitive watersheds.
to do so, we must therefore promote sustainable water use, the protection of available water resources and their efficient and sustainable use.
the proposal to keep the european drought observatory within the european environment agency and the proposal to set up a network of cities to promote sustainable water use are therefore proposals which we welcome.
the issue of climate change is a comprehensive issue and water is a problem that affects the territory and needs a comprehensive treatment.
energy is a major factor, but there is also impressive growth in services.
the security of energy supply and demand is a key component of our relationship.
eu member states are major buyers of russian energy products and this is unlikely to change in the short to medium term.
nevertheless, a great deal of work has yet to be done to build up a genuine energy partnership based on the principles enshrined in the energy charter treaty, namely transparency, reciprocity and non-discrimination.
we need russia - i repeat - to face global challenges, such as the fight against terrorism, climate change or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
in this context, we will of course continue to stress to russia the importance of transparency, reciprocity and non-discrimination in the energy sector.
i would like to begin by quoting the words of the president-in-office, mr sarkozy, who said this morning that the european union cannot be an accomplice to a new cold war and cannot irresponsibly fuel an escalation of tension that would lead to a crisis with russia, which is indeed called upon to be a positive and constructive partner of the european union because of its strategic importance, its natural resources, its military or nuclear power, the level of trade we have with russia, or simply because it is the european union's main energy supplier, as the commissioner reminded us.
their cooperation is necessary to address challenges such as the middle east peace process or the iranian nuclear issue, and to fight organised crime, terrorism, climate change or nuclear proliferation.
it exists in all areas: it exists in the energy sector, that is obvious, and i would even say that for some member states of the union, it is a dependency which must be remedied by diversifying the sources of supply.
the deployment of civilian observers on the ground; the european union is also united in defining its interests, particularly in the energy field and in the more general field of international security.
since we are so interdependent, there are all the important interests on the economic side and the energy side, but there are also interests on the world scene.
these were mentioned – climate change, energy security, the question of how we can get a future agreement in copenhagen.
the question of energy security and clear energy was mentioned.
let me just say that we also have an energy dialogue and an environmental dialogue and, therefore, the questions of energy efficiency, clear energy etc.
so there is still a community of views within the council on this important issue and a shared desire to reach comprehensive regional economic partnership agreements that will bring about sustainable economic development for the acp countries.
what is emphasized to me is that, on the one hand, the allocation of fishing opportunities to community vessels must be based on transparent scientific advice, and, on the other hand, that part of the community's financial contribution set out in the so-called sectoral support agreements is aimed at developing the fishing sector of the partner coastal state in such a way as to establish responsible and sustainable fishing.
it is obvious that we must ensure that sustainable development is always possible and that we must not, at any cost, exert excessive pressure in the framework of these agreements, which remain bilateral.
its mission is to promote the highest possible level of safety and environmental protection in civil aviation and the community institutions have also dealt with cases of aircraft which were operated within the community by third-party carriers, i.e.
i would also like to welcome the support and recognition of programmes such as civitas urbano or intelligent energy, which are the basis of this type of programme and which, we hope, will continue to receive support, as well as the recognition of the participation of all the actors and also the commitment that is being expressed for hydrogen.
but on the other hand, as regards supply infrastructures, i regret that we have not been able to use an instrument specific to the transport sector which has been rejected by this parliament, such as the transeuropean energy networks, which we proposed at the time but which have not been adopted.
we are talking about all the funds, we are talking about all the state aids, but we are not mentioning this fund or this programme for transeuropean energy networks, which have been somewhat delayed in recent years and which, however, would be very much needed right now for the supply of new alternative fuels, such as gas or hydrogen.
i would therefore ask commissioner tajani if he could make a proposal to us in the future, at the time of the revision of this text or even before, to use the transeuropean energy networks as an instrument to ensure the supply of these new fuels in one of the areas where there is a greater shortage, namely the infrastructure needed for these new fuels.
the aim of the commission's action and that of the directorate-general for transport and energy is therefore to go in the direction of the citizen: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
their responsibility is greater than ever, because we are not in a position to waste the maximum return of every euro invested by european taxpayers.
that is why my group is in favour of, among other things, more money for the transeuropean networks, which the council has irresponsibly neglected; it is in favour of more money for the energy networks in particular, and it is also in favour of more money for payment appropriations under the convergence heading.
mr president, we have a draft budget for 2009 which seeks to strengthen the social and environmental dimension of the european union as an area of peace and progress.
the first concerns resources for european space research, focusing on global environmental surveillance, public safety and the international year of astronomy.
the common system for charging user charges thus maintains the conditions necessary for fair and transparent competition and also provides for future features by taking account of environmental criteria for modulation and also by exempting charges for assistance to disabled passengers.
both must provide the stability, growth, equity and sustainability that our citizens demand.
it is necessary to face the challenges of globalisation, climate change or ageing, but also the financial crisis we have now which demands improvements in our functioning and also to face the recession, the face of which we are seeing for the first time.
also, cohesion policy – somebody, i think mr janowski, suggested involving cohesion policy in prevention actions – has as one of its priorities precisely preventive actions, especially in the area of environment.
it also allows progress in retail market integration to be tracked, and helps to benchmark the consumer environment in member states, particularly in terms of compliance with consumer legislation, enforcement, redress, and consumer empowerment.
the current political and economic climate further reinforces the need for good price data.
written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'supporting the early demonstration of sustainable electricity production from fossil fuels' (2008/2140 (ini)) (a6-0418/2008).
− mr president, i thank mr ehler very much for his report on the communication of the commission on supporting early demonstration of sustainable power generation from fossil fuels.
we appreciate the general support in the report for our policy objectives and for the recognition of the important role ccs can play in combating climate change worldwide.
the report also clearly recognises the urgent need for up to 12 large-scale demonstration projects to make ccs commercially viable by 2020. our communication has to be seen as a part of the complete and comprehensive climate and energy package which includes the ccs directive, which sets the legal framework for allowing operation of ccs technologies in europe, the emission trading system, which provides the economic and commercial framework for ccs, and the commission’s proposal that suggests that 20% of the auction revenues are earmarked by member states for investment in low-carbon technologies, such as ccs.
i appreciate your general endorsement of the climate and energy package and especially the communication.
to address the financing issue, an amendment to the ets proposal has been adopted by the committee on the environment proposing to use eur 500 million allowances from the new entrance reserve to finance ccs demonstration projects.
the commission has sent a policy option paper to parliament in order to help build consensus in the council, too, to ensure sufficient financing of low-carbon technologies.
the threat of new climate, financial, health risks, etc.
fourthly, as regards tourism, i know the president-in-office well enough to know that he has other favourite places and that he is putting all his energy into serving the european union.
and it would also help us to have a quick, normal and logical agreement on the dosage of cars and emissions.
the priorities must be the timely implementation of the galileo and egnos programmes and the global monitoring system for environment and security, which will support the evaluation and implementation of european policies affecting the environment.
the commission is perfectly aware of the poverty which, combined with other factors such as instability, climate change and human rights violations, drives migrants to embark on a hard, sometimes tragic journey.
beekeeping is a livestock activity with important economic repercussions and beneficial effects on rural development and the ecological balance.
a high level of controls at border inspection posts, both in frequency and number, must be maintained to ensure that no waste beekeeping products from third countries are brought into the european union.
we cannot simply, commissioner, let all this effort go to waste.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tried to add a little more pepper to this really dull story and we have tabled the following amendments: we have adopted an amendment in favour of small and mediumsized enterprises; its spirit is to reconcile the fight against tax fraud with the simplification of the administrative environment that burdens small enterprises to which this parliament, and the european union as a whole, has committed itself.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the state of play of the negotiations on the energy and climate change package.
− mr president, today’s debate is very important because we are close to reaching agreement on the climate and energy package.
this means that we are close to the goal of adopting framework legislation on renewable energy sources that will make a real difference for security of supply, europe’s competitiveness and also for sustainability.
prospects are extremely good that within the next few days we will be able to confirm our agreement to set a 20% share of renewable energy in the community in 2020. we will be able to confirm how this target will be broken down into legally binding targets for member states that will provide certainty for investments.
we will be able to agree on a 10% target for renewable energy use in transport and on bonuses towards the targets for second-generation biofuels and for renewables used by electric cars.
we will be able to agree on a world-leading set of sustainability criteria for biofuels used to achieve this target.
we will be able to agree on a whole range of measures to break down administrative barriers to renewable energy penetration and ensure its access to the electricity and energy networks.
really big steps have been taken towards achieving european energy policy objectives.
it is an important step towards maintaining the eu's pioneering role in the critical task of tackling climate change and leading by example in copenhagen next year.
in the context of the recently adopted energy security package, this directive also marks an important step forward in our efforts to improve the security of our energy supply.
the development of the renewable energy directive has been a stimulating process of work between the institutions, in which the parliament has played its full role.
the commission's proposed climate and energy package is one of the most important initiatives of the european union in recent years.
the european union will not only achieve its environmental objectives with these measures, but will also be able to make a decisive contribution to the new international agreement on climate change.
the adoption of the climate and energy package is essential to maintain the european union's international credibility.
the debate today coincides with the international climate conference being held in poznan, poland.
the package will facilitate the transition of the european union to a low-carbon economy.
the current economic crisis is no reason for inaction; on the contrary, it is an additional strong incentive to take action on climate change.
in addition, by saving energy and improving our energy efficiency, we are strengthening the european union's energy security by reducing oil and gas imports.
the move towards a low-carbon economy will encourage innovation, present new investment opportunities and create new green jobs.
that is why the european union's climate change and energy package is part of the solution to the current crisis.
i would like to thank the european parliament, the presidency and the council for their excellent cooperation with the commission both on the climate change and energy package and on the related proposals on cars and carbon dioxide and the fuel quality directive.
the final agreement must maintain the overall architecture of the commission's proposal and our environmental objectives and ensure a fair sharing of the efforts of the member states.
i would like to mention briefly the review of the emissions trading system.
in order to achieve our environmental objectives, the emissions ceiling of the trading system must ensure a 21% reduction in emissions in 2020 compared to 2005 levels.
i would also like to say a few words on the subject of the risk of carbon leakage.
the international agreement on climate change is the most effective way of tackling this risk.
i am optimistic that a satisfactory solution will be found which fully respects the environmental objectives of the commission's proposal.
the commission has set the annual limit for the clean growth mechanism at 3%, because this is the balance between flexibility and reducing emissions within the european union.
this principle has already been successfully applied in the european union's emissions trading system.
finally, significant progress has been made on the commission's proposal for a legal framework for carbon capture and storage.
as regards the question of the financing of the ccs, which has been of particular interest to parliament, the use of the reserve for new entrants to the emissions trading system is already being discussed.
secondly, that as a consequence of this increased coal consumption, co2 emissions are increasing.
without such an agreement, there will be no efficiency in the ultimate objective of reducing co2 emissions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the approval of this energy-climate change package must be our cover letter to send a very clear signal to the whole world in order to conclude an ambitious agreement next year in copenhagen.
with climate change, we cannot afford to repeat that mistake if we want to prevent dangerous and possibly catastrophic economic and social consequences in the coming decades.
we must be responsible and make courageous decisions to assume a clean and efficient energy model, as well as provide the necessary tools that allow citizens to become aware and act on climate change.
the protection of the environment and the absence of substances with any toxicity or allergenic risk were at the heart of the public debate.
noise is a major pollution affecting children and the elderly, and many toys make too much noise.
it is late, as you said, mr president, so i will confine myself to four points on the four main types of intervention that have been made previously, both on the economy, on the climate package, on political issues and finally on the treaty.
on the climate package, i will move quickly, because the minister of state, jean-louis borloo, who has done an exceptional job with his secretary of state, nathalie kosciusko-morizet, will answer you more this afternoon, but i would like to thank mrs sudre, mr krasts, mr langen, mr szejna and also mrs doyle, who has contributed a lot to the work on this climate.
i believe that this climate plan is the most important plan since kyoto and, above all, that it makes europe an exemplary continent before the copenhagen conference.
by presenting the energy package, the climate package, the economic recovery plan, being ambitious and taking the initiative, we have proven that we are not a secretariat but a commission with the right of initiative, and we will continue to act in that way.
i did not hear any arguments about an energy package also offering a number of opportunities for europe.
i think that investing in more energy-efficient industries or an electricity grid offers us fantastic opportunities, not only to create jobs and bridge the recession but also for sustainable development.
even though we do not belong to the same political family, we prefer people who are clear about their values, who are willing to put a lot of energy and their own ideas into the debate about europe, and we see somebody defending europe in all of this.
- madam president, i too welcome the conclusion of this negotiation on the renewable energy directive.
we believe that, from the point of view of the transport sector in particular, a clear direction has been set, a trend which the industry was calling for in terms of legal certainty, and that we have been able to set the conditions and diversify sufficiently so that not only biofuels but also other aspects such as hydrogen or electricity from renewable sources are part of the 'mix' needed to reach the 20% and 10% targets within that 20% target.
i think it is fundamental and i think it is very important to introduce sustainability criteria, of course environmental criteria, with regard to land use and the impact on third countries, but i also think it is fundamental, and i ask the commission to be particularly sensitive in this respect, to introduce social criteria, which are precisely those which citizens are asking us to adopt at this time of recession and of great questions.
this is a joint debate, of the whole package, but we are now talking about the renewable energy directive, and on this particular subject i would like to highlight a few things.
the flexibility mechanisms, to make it easier for those member states with less potential to be part of this ambitious project to boost renewable energies, by combining their efforts with those member states that do have great potential, is also a very positive contribution.
and certainly with this renewable energy directive, european industry is getting a very strong, very clear message that it is going to be driven to act with confidence, with certainty; this opens up great business opportunities and job creation, both in europe and globally.
in short, this legislative package opens up a new era, an era of commitment to environmental quality, of a dimension and a scope ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, this report is undoubtedly a very important step towards a more secure, more competitive and more sustainable energy system.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world market.
as a parliament we must be vigilant so that there is no slackening in the achievement of the objectives and also encourage the union to promote the enormous potential of renewable energies abroad.
we therefore welcome the initiative to set up an international renewable energy agency to promote renewable energy outside europe.
written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the following is the report by avril doyle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to improve and extend the community scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading (com ((2008) 0016 c6-0043/2008 2008/0013 ((cod)) (a6-0406/2008).
if it is approved tomorrow, it will provide a key signal to other countries that the european union is committed and leading the fight against climate change.
addressing this climate change and the transition to a low-carbon and low-consumption society is a key global priority and this legislation will allow for the planning of future investments that reduce emissions, especially through energy efficiency and the phasing out of those obsolete industries that emit large amounts of co2.
i hope that in the near future circumstances will allow us to be much more ambitious and that other countries will also join this crusade against climate change that we want to see in europe.
there are also the advances, notably on the sustainability of biofuels in the enr directive itself, which seemed to us to be essential and minimal.
- the the commission welcomes the agreement on the fuel quality directive, which retains the main elements of the commission's proposal and represents a major step forward in the field of environmental protection.
a key element of the compromise agreement is the obligation on energy suppliers to reduce greenhouse gas emissions over the entire life cycle of fuels.
this is an important contribution to our climate policy.
it will promote technological progress and is the first of the complementary measures under approval under the revised strategy on carbon dioxide emissions from cars.
by incorporating sustainability criteria for biofuels, we will not only provide incentives for the use of those biofuels that have the best greenhouse gas emission performance, but at the same time avoid serious environmental risks associated with their production.
in addition, the compromise agreement will reduce emissions of pollutants, in particular by lowering the limits for sulphur and poly-aromatic hydrocarbons, facilitate the use of ethanol, improve consumer information and set a limit for the additional mmt.
in short, the compromise agreement is part of our traditional policy of controlling emissions of pollutants into the air and is an important step forward in our climate policy.
this is precisely what did not pass the vote in the committee on the environment, and this was a matter of concern to many of us.
today we have an agreement on the table which softens the application of article 7a and which resumes the vapour pressure waiver, of course tightening the conditions for access to the exception and which, like the rest of this climate package, does not satisfy everyone 100% but is nevertheless acceptable to everyone.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr guido sacconi for his immense patience and astute intelligence in unblocking not only a regulation which is crucial for the environment, the economy, employment and industry, but also in unblocking with this regulation the whole package on energy and climate change, which really depended on this philosopher's stone.
the report promotes eco-innovations linked to the reduction of co2 emissions, supports research and innovation to reduce emissions and also encourages the biofuels and petrol stations needed to do so.
it contributes to a significant reduction in co2 emissions and preserves the competitiveness of the european automotive industry.
the directives on settlement finality and financial collateral are the two cornerstones of the post-trading environment, and there is no doubt that the current amendments represent very substantial progress.
all this is to promote the sustainable and peaceful development of peoples.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.