the development of democracy requires helping the ruling circles to understand its nature as a component of the democratic environment.
sadly, not all of our children today have the opportunity to grow up in a family environment, living in orphanages.
unfortunately, the violence of the tbilisi protests has received much more international attention than the daily human rights violations in azerbaijan, for example, which are often overlooked due to its large energy reserves.
it is my belief that the politicians in the neighbouring countries and even in the eu, who have chosen to remain sceptical and extremely vocal as well, have not acted in the best interest of further sustainable development and consolidation of democracy in georgia, the importance of which this report clearly stresses.
union policy on energy aims, in a spirit of solidarity between member states, to ensure security of energy supply in the union.
experts have perceived a threat in south stream to the nabucco project, which is included in the eu trans-european energy network.
in my opinion, bulgaria has acted in a very disappointing way by signing a bilateral agreement on energy with the russian federation.
russian foreign minister lavrov said bluntly on thursday that transforming the architecture of europe will become a priority of russian foreign policy in 2008. russia wants to reshape the european union, crippling our foreign policy will and pushing us between the energy jugs of north stream and south stream.
– first of all i would like to congratulate ms hall on a truly comprehensive report, dedicated to improving energy efficiency and calling on the member states that are far behind the implementation of existing legislation to take all the necessary measures.
secondly, i am glad to concede that the report has not only pointed out ways for industrial consumers to save energy, but for small consumers as well – especially by means of raising consumer awareness and providing reliable information of the most environment-friendly options.
it must be noted that the consumption of households accounts for 40% of overall energy consumption.
therefore it is an individual responsibility for all of us to contribute to maximise energy efficiency.
thirdly, energy consumption is progressively increasing and so does the expenditure on energy.
it is simple common sense to enforce measures for energy efficiency in order to gain the optimal use of means of production.
the importance of this decision cannot be underestimated either by the nordic countries or by the member states around the baltic sea that joined in 2004. the strategy might truly unleash the full potential of the region covering areas from the environment, economy, culture and education to security.
the baltic sea strategy foresees sustainable development and growth, it foresees and maps all the areas which can be further developed, and therefore can in reality become maybe the only region actually fulfilling the lisbon strategy.
the main issues affecting central asia are covered in this report, including security issues, the fight against terrorism, energy, the fight against poverty, drug trafficking, human trafficking, environmental problems, as well as the development of relations with the european union, regional cooperation and the challenges of globalisation.
the time is not right to talk about all the implications, but i would like to stress that the demographic situation depends on many decisions, on many legal rules, from labour and family law to the environment and security.
at the same time, estonia feels that low birth rates endanger the sustainability of our culture, maybe even nationhood.
as the rapporteur put it just now, it is one of the most efficient forms of renewable energy.
well, in the same way, i believe in the strength of united negotiation and i must say that with mr president mate we will really get down to work with a lot of energy, with a lot of determination.
but nevertheless, it has already been shown that practical cooperation gives rise to the need to discuss the major strategic issues, such as the future of the world trade system, the question of protectionism, the treatment of investments from state funds, the question of food and energy prices, as well as the question of the possible need to regulate financial services.
if we remove the barriers that prevent us from reaching our economic potential, we can do much more to achieve our great political, social and environmental goals.
the commission will seek to work closely with parliament and the council on this issue, which is one of its priorities for 2008. the second theme - restructuring: restructuring is a necessary response to the process of major economic and social change in europe linked to technological progress, globalisation and population ageing, as well as the necessary steps to address global warming and environmental threats.
there are several topics, from the environment and energy to visa regimes, immigration, cross-border projects and unresolved issues relating to georgia and moldova, that require a comprehensive political agreement on common objectives and measures.
climate change and human activities are behind it.
today, the ipcc, which brings together the work of thousands of scientists, has provided enough evidence that climate change exists, and it's our job to act instead of continuing to prove it.
the european union must be ambitious and aim to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020. otherwise, it is difficult to expect any serious contribution from other countries.
it is strange that the council is in agreement on the general objectives, but when it comes to co2 emissions from cars or any other specific measures to achieve the objectives, it no longer dares to set ambitious targets.
this is not the way to combat climate change effectively.
i support the amendments which call for more detailed research and modelling of the state of the oceans and seas and the impact of climate change on fisheries.
i cannot agree with some of the amendments which cast doubt on the question of climate change, stress the importance of fossil fuels and nuclear energy and ridicule the development of renewable energy.
i believe that the temporary committee on climate change in parliament has been helpful in raising awareness and articulating a common position among members from different walks of life.
as for energy security, i would like to call on the commission and the council to take serious account of parliament’s position from last september on foreign energy security, which also offers some institutional improvements.
a bilateral solution to energy-related foreign policy issues will have a devastating effect on our credibility.
also a joint approach to the problems of climate change will substantially enhance the chances of solving these problems.
yes, europe can stop, but the world around us will not stop because of us, and the most dramatic casualty of this vote will be europe’s solidarity: our common foreign and security policy and energy solidarity.
these priorities are especially relevant in the field of economics and energy, where the principles of transparency and reciprocity can be the only basis for long-term cooperation, together with equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment.
the european union must remain true to its values and protect them, not allow itself to be blinded by the region from which most of russia's energy resources originate.
- the mr president, i should like to thank the chairman of the committee on petitions, mr libicki, for his report, which gives us the opportunity to discuss the environmental impact of this major project, a 1 200 km gas pipeline that will cross a shallow sea such as the baltic.
not only because it is an important project, which raises many questions about environmental protection in the baltic region, but also because it seems to be the first of many similar projects planned for the future.
it was also discussed in the european parliament last january, as mr libicki mentioned, at a public hearing organized by the committee on petitions, in which i participated together with my colleague, mr piebalgs, responsible for energy.
our energy policy for europe emphasises the urgent need to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, and we are working towards this goal.
however, significant increases in gas imports will still be needed to meet europe's energy needs in the coming decades.
as you know, the need to build new infrastructure for the transport of russian gas to the european union was recognised by the european parliament and the council when they adopted the guidelines for trans-european energy networks in september 2006. i refer in particular to decision 1364/2006 of the european parliament and of the council.
subject to the positive conclusions of the environmental impact study, the nord stream pipeline will be a project of european interest.
my main message at the hearing in the european parliament in january was that the project, like any other project, must comply with all relevant environmental rules of international and community law during its construction, operation and monitoring phases.
however, the granting of a permit for such projects requires an environmental impact assessment procedure.
the same is true of the guidelines for transeuropean energy networks which i have just mentioned.
environmental impact assessment procedures are provided for in both community and international law.
the cross-border nature of the project requires the application of the espoo convention, and the member states concerned are obliged to correctly apply the provisions of the environmental impact assessment directive before issuing the permit.
the environmental impact procedure under the espoo convention was already initiated with the notification of the project at the end of 2006. according to the information available to the commission, numerous studies, reports and issues have been discussed in various forums and meetings with both the public and the competent authorities in various member states.
as provided for in the espoo convention, the contractor, the owner of the project, must provide appropriate documentation on the environmental impact.
at the same time, the country responsible for issuing the licence, the country of origin, the country of origin, as it is called in the espoo convention, has two obligations: first, to organise consultations with the environmental authorities and the public concerned and, secondly, to initiate consultations with the affected party or parties, i.e.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
at this stage, any emphasis on potential negative environmental impacts that cannot be mitigated or eliminated as provided for by environmental impact legislation is premature.
the final report on environmental impact assessments has not yet been drawn up.
the environmental authorities have therefore not yet had the opportunity to analyse and evaluate all the technical information needed to answer all the legitimate questions.
both the parties of origin and the parties concerned, meet regularly and discuss developments in the environmental impact procedure under the espoo convention.
the final environmental impact report is expected to be submitted by the end of the year.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
− the only valid arguments left open for the construction of the baltic sea gas pipeline are those of environmental protection.
the swiss company nord stream failed to submit its environmental impact assessment report by the deadline, so the european parliament will vote in the dark.
it also appears that the environmental impact assessment commissioned by nord stream has been supplemented by new research tasks only after the parliament has pointed out significant shortcomings in the planning of the research.
particular attention should be paid to phosphorus released from these sediments during the dredging of bottom sediments, which according to the environmental assessment does not affect eutrophication, but according to another research group does.
the precondition for building the pipeline should be a truly independent environmental impact study under the supervision of the commission, establishing liability for possible damages, and russia ratifying the espoo convention.
article 194 of the future treaty on the functioning of the european union (treaty of lisbon) explicitly states that eu energy policy should be conducted in a spirit of solidarity between member states and with a view to preserving and improving the environment.
it is hard to disagree that in europe, where the preservation of the natural environment has been the subject of much discussion in recent years, the natural environment is suddenly being sacrificed to the eu's external energy policy.
given that the baltic sea is already one of the most polluted marine areas, it is unacceptable to create additional sources of risk to the baltic sea ecosystem, which could lead to a natural and economic disaster in the region in the future.
i would call on the european parliament to support the idea put forward by the baltic sea states, the rapporteur and environmental organisations to build this northern gas pipeline overland and i would ask the european commission and the council to use all the legal means at their disposal to change the pipeline builder's plans to build this pipeline in the baltic sea.
the original version calls for considering alternatives to the existing gas pipeline project – alternatives which would be at least three times less costly and would not impose high environmental risks.
i cannot agree with the amendment which prioritizes the demand for gas at the cost of neglecting eu environmental legislation and citizens' worries.
last year, the foundations were laid for environmental and energy action plans to reduce greenhouse gases and combat global warming.
the baltic sea has become basically a european union lake, with eight member states surrounding it since 2004. the baltic sea strategy covers the areas of environment, economics, culture and education and security, providing a sustainable plan for the development of this region.
the modernisation of the transnational availability of information is also an important step in the fight against tax fraud, which would be facilitated by the creation of a pan-european e-taxation information environment.
more than ever we need better coherence in our energy policy, with a perspective of enhancing energy independence.
solidarity between member states and the search for alternative energy resources should become eu priorities.
it is important that, in the coming winter, member state governments do all they can to support those who may be overwhelmed by rising energy prices.
i am particularly concerned about the impact of rising energy prices on low-income, poor and disadvantaged groups.
i agree 100% that member states must take adequate measures to ensure affordable energy prices for services.
including targeted income support and incentives and incentives in the residential sector to improve the energy efficiency of homes.
i am also fully in favour of member states drawing up action plans to combat 'energy poverty'.
first, we need to define energy poverty.
we have to get everyone out of energy poverty!
unlike in the uk, for example, the word "energy poverty" is quite foreign to estonia.
the better insulated and energy-efficient our homes are, the less we have to spend on maintaining the radiator.
the total would be high, because buildings consume 40% of primary energy in, for example, estonia.
the union's policies in areas such as climate change, energy, transport and fisheries have a direct impact on the arctic.
the marine and terrestrial areas of this region are vulnerable and are essential components of the terrestrial environmental system.
the effects of climate change are manifesting themselves more rapidly and on a larger scale in the arctic region than in the rest of the world.
the forthcoming comprehensive communication will propose that the european union play a more dynamic and coordinated role in the arctic and that its action be structured around three main objectives: protecting and preserving the arctic in cooperation with its inhabitants; promoting the sustainable use of the arctic's resources; and promoting the sustainable use of the arctic's resources.
climate change is the consequence of a global process and the european union must continue to play a leading role in combating it.
the communication will give the highest priority to the protection and preservation of the environment, which should not necessarily preclude the sustainable use of arctic resources.
our aim is to help establish a system based on cooperation which will guarantee sustainability as well as freedom and equity in terms of access.
second, the region has entered a dramatic climate change we need to react to.
especially we look forward to the commission putting the arctic regions’ energy and security policy on its agenda.
the uk's use of cold weather allowances for older people to keep rooms warm and to combat energy poverty is a great example that other member states, including estonia, should follow.
a safe living environment (preventing domestic violence and substance abuse), reducing stress-causing factors in school and at home, prevention and awareness-raising should be of the highest priority.
various voluntary and youth organisations in particular are crucial providers of a safe environment in leisure-time activities and of non-formal education/awareness-raising on mental-health-related issues.
according to a recently published eu kids online report, in my own country, estonia, 68% of children have access to the internet in their home environment.
i call for a sustainable foreign policy with russia, not a break-up.
i note that, by the time of the publication of his article, i had reached the same conclusion, given the energy relations of several eu member states in recent years.
from a european perspective, operating in a highly competitive environment, it would naturally be good to have more specialists.
although there is still a relatively small amount of motor fuel produced from table-fed fruits in europe, we should not make europe's food for people a victim of 'green energy'.
this would help to avoid food price inflation and famine, and also to prevent global warming.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues from the socialist group for making a strong contribution to ensuring a safe environment for our children.
that interdependence does not only relate to energy and trade.
should we not do this, we risk sharing responsibility for gassing justice and human rights in our neighbourhood, while making pragmatic attempts to secure energy supplies for ourselves.