a new topic is the right to grow up in a clean environment, the rights of children to the environment.
the family is unquestionably the best environment for a child to live in.
one, the treaty: if you have got a lot of member states to ratify without problems, you have done a great job; two, the energy package: if you have got some of that done, you have done a great job; and three, if you have succeeded with kosovo, you have done it.
my question is more broadly on energy and that is, firstly, what is the slovenian position on increasing nuclear inside the borders of europe?
in the case of emissions trading, the price of allowances is also transferred to the price of nuclear and hydropower electricity, which does not require allowances to produce, on the wholesale electricity market in the eu.
the emissions trading system favours the expansion of nuclear power.
i hope that the commission has maintained the view expressed by commissioner piebalgs that nuclear power is not a renewable form of energy.
the requirement to increase the share of renewable energy in the eu to an average of 20% may place small countries, where this percentage is already exceeded, at a disadvantage compared with large countries, where it is currently 2 to 6%.
mr president, mr barroso, renewable energy is not just a cost, it is also a process that creates jobs, innovation and competitiveness.
what good is it if energy-intensive and clean industry has to move to countries where there are no emission limits?
in the case of emissions trading and even in the telecommunications sector, as högmark pointed out, those who have already reached the target level are being punished.
the commission has not taken account of the baseline, the energy dependence of industry, efficiency, the role of the zero-emission sector and so on.
this change, which is important for climate policy, also means a change in our industrial production.
i really hope that we will also demonstrate our strong commitment by our solutions for biofuels, which will send a strong signal and incentive to develop truly sustainable products to replace existing fuels.
the only ethical and sustainable approach to missile defence systems and other new nuclear weapons systems is to give up nuclear weapons.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the bali climate summit was a success and we can be proud of the eu's role in it.
the most important message europe can send to the world today is our own climate policy.
the best way to accelerate a difficult international process is to adopt ambitious laws on emissions trading, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i am glad that the commission last week saw climate protection as a positive economic opportunity, a new industrial revolution.
and so it is crucial to our economic future that we remain at the forefront of the development of clean new energy technologies.
we must also understand that the real gordon knot in international climate negotiations is justice.
the planet cannot be saved unless the big developing countries, like china and india, also limit their emissions.
we must be prepared to compensate the developing countries in one way or another for the fact that our emissions per capita are, however, many times higher than those of the developing countries.
a two-year roadmap was elaborated, providing negotiating tracks for all countries to respond to the climate challenge.
this is not only for economical but also for environmental reasons.
this is called carbon leakage, as i have emphasised many times.
a pollution shift is not a pollution cut.
a unilateral climate policy hits the energy and employment intensive industries hardest so the polluter-pays principle becomes a polluter-wins or polluter-relocates policy.
as commissioner verheugen said recently, when describing the dangers of one-sided reductions: ‘we are exporting pollution and importing unemployment.
therefore we must devise a truly global-market-based mechanism and i believe that balancing this triangular dilemma of energy supply, environmental sensitivity and retaining globally competitive industries to employ our workforce is the key priority for a recently published climate package.
these are the numbers that the ipcc panel has put out in its own assessments, and the numbers show what kind of emissions reductions we need to achieve in europe and globally to deal with climate change without very high human costs.
few decisions in europe are likely to have as far-reaching and contradictory effects as the council's spring 2007 climate tri-plan 20% emissions reduction, 20% energy saving and 20% renewables, all by 2020. the latter is a binding target, unfortunately, as it threatens to accelerate climate change.
until this is understood, the climate benefits are only available from the first two.
energy saving, in particular by improving energy efficiency, is undoubtedly one of the most effective tools for combating climate change.
the valuable thing about the report is that it has understood the scope and the potential of the matter: the requirement for energy efficiency must have a social impact.
energy efficiency targets and rules must cover equipment, buildings, energy production and transmission, transport and consumption patterns.
improving energy efficiency is a competition where the best climate result is achieved on market terms.
a major task is to bring the union together in a common energy policy that can secure the energy supply of the member states, as you said, prime minister reinfeldt.
a well-designed strategy for the baltic sea region can be an important building block for future energy policy and, in particular, for energy cooperation with russia.
a sustainable solution will be difficult to achieve unless the eu and its baltic sea member states jointly set out a course of action and also provide full transparency of the project.
i would like to commend sweden for giving us the opportunity to test the new provision on energy policy, article 176a of the treaty of lisbon.
the eu has many good intentions, the oldest of which is the lisbon strategy now in hand and the youngest the latest energy package.
the energy targets may also be affected by the failure to achieve them by 2020. the market moves in the opposite direction and the eu does not act against market trends.
this will also improve the conditions for cooperation in the field of energy policy.
the eu should also support and encourage the countries of central asia to step up their efforts to protect the environment and to pursue sustainable use of water and other natural resources.
the eu's climate committee has just visited india and we have been told that the eu is not well known there and has little meaning for indians.
i would also like to recall the potential of the baltic sea strategy and the integration of the northern dimension, for example in the exploitation of the energy resources of the barents region.
for the alde group mr president, about a quarter of the european union's greenhouse gas emissions come from transport.
there is therefore a clear need to reduce transport emissions.
transport must be made less burdensome to the environment.
air transport has been completely excluded from international climate agreements.
but it is causing increasing emissions and it must be included in the agreements.
in general, transport needs to move away from fossil fuels to renewable fuels.
we have a lot of work to do at european union level if we are really going to achieve the targets we have committed ourselves to together, namely to reduce emissions.
it is possible that extreme natural events such as floods will increase as a result of global warming.
parliament's committees, in particular the committee on industry, research and energy, have adapted the proposal to the new faith.
biogas is an important renewable energy resource that contributes to sustainable agricultural development and improves the state of the environment.
biogas can also improve the energy self-sufficiency of farms and regions, and only a small part of this resource has been tapped.
the important raw materials for biogas, manure and by-products of the food industry, should not be classified as waste but as useful raw materials for biogas and fertilisers.
for the ppe-de group mr president, energy statistics have always been dealt with at community level on the basis of a gentlemen's agreement.
the enlargement of the eu, the resulting divergence in statistical practices and other reforms such as the liberalisation of energy markets and alternative forms of energy have all combined to create the need for a rapid development of a community-wide legal framework for statistics.
the energy statistics process was only supposed to be a small entry in parliament's work statistics, but the rapporteur, mr turmesin, succeeded in creating a political game of passion, which is full of official dry and technical statistics.
the requirements for detailed statistics on nuclear fuel cycle and end-use of energy, expanded statistics on renewable energy, as well as the ambitious requirements for the timing of the annual reporting of eurostat, were politically coloured.
for example, peat which is classified as fossil or renewable, insofar as it is renewed annually, is an excellent example of this.
let that battle remain in the upcoming debate on the renewable energy directive, where our paths are expected to cross again.
mr president, the president-in-office of the council was quite right in assessing that climate change and the economy are closely linked.
we've talked about climate change being a political issue here.
mitigating and adapting to climate change must be at the heart of the eu's lisbon strategy.
unfortunately, energy efficiency and energy saving are not among the european union's range of binding measures.
however, it must be remembered that the cleanest, cheapest and most efficient energy is the energy saved.
we could already save that 20% by implementing all the european union legislation, so we need even more ambitious and clearer energy efficiency targets.
- the mr president, honourable members, it is more than a year since the commission's communication entitled 'mobilizing public and private capital to finance global access to environmentally friendly, affordable and secure energy services'; the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund, known as geeref.
it is therefore the right time to discuss this report, and i am pleased to note that the european parliament is particularly positive towards this new and innovative instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
it is a fact that, despite the continuing progress made in the exploitation of renewable energy sources, their share in the global energy mix is still low.
it is also known that improving energy efficiency can yield more benefits than building new energy infrastructure.
however, investments in energy efficiency around the world are not fully exploiting the potential for improvement.
the major difficulties in attracting private finance for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects are therefore a major problem.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
mr president, i am pleased to note that with this report the european parliament is supporting the creation of the global fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
i thank the rapporteur, mr turmes, for his efforts, and also mr wijkman and mrs korhola of the committee on development and the committee on the environment for their contributions.
i consider this to be an important and timely initiative which demonstrates that the european union is taking action and is determined to help developing countries gain access to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
the basic condition for financing projects, and not only for projects relating to biomass or biofuels, will undoubtedly be compliance with sustainability criteria, which will not be less than those specified in the various european union legislation.
this will strengthen the relationship of trust that we must build with these countries, especially in view of the global climate change agreement to be concluded in 2009. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
- mr president, climate and energy issues have rapidly become central to almost all eu policy areas.
in particular, the increase in renewable energy is now a matter of urgency, not least because of the quantitative targets already decided on for renewable energy.
this seems to be the case with the recently published renewable energy target.
not all biofuels are environmentally beneficial, and not all renewable energy sources reduce emissions, as mr turmes rightly pointed out a moment ago.
we need renewable energy, but we need it wisely.
the global fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, currently under consideration, is a prime example of how a good cause can be promoted in a way that brings multiple benefits.
this will create the conditions for the sustainability and continuity of the projects.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the turmes report is a very ambitious objective to get developing countries to use their energy resources efficiently.
these countries are often located in geographical areas with access to cheap renewable energy resources.
for example, the production of charcoal from the scarce wood reserves in the desertifying regions of sub-saharan africa is a more energy-efficient way of using wood resources than direct burning of wood.
- mr president, mr commissioner dimas, the eu's environmental policy is not meeting the objectives of the sixth environmental programme.
the thematic strategies which are the cornerstone of the environmental programme and the legislation which is based on them, and which has largely been adopted, will not achieve the environmental objectives.
the loss of biodiversity is unlikely to be halted and marine protection legislation is not expected to have any effect by 2012. soil protection, as we know, has faced problems not only in the council but also here in parliament.
the waste legislation is now in its final stages, and it's not looking good.
the reduction of waste must be sufficiently targeted.
the objectives adopted in the air quality directive are also below the objectives adopted in the sixth environmental programme.
however, one area is where the objectives of the environment programme are being achieved, and that is climate policy.
it must be remembered that the implementation of climate policy also helps with air quality issues and partly also with waste issues, so it is very important in that respect too.
but then what can we do to get back on the road to achieving the objectives of the sixth environmental programme?
the second important, major and perhaps most important issue is how we manage to integrate the environment into all european union legislation.
we still have areas where we support activities that are harmful to the environment.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation for the benefit of the environment.
if legislation at european level does not allow the development of environmental taxes, the means available, such as flexible cooperation, must be used to take taxation issues forward.
binding legislation must continue to play a central role in improving the state of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment of natural habitats is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
for example, it is unlikely that we will be able to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010, despite our commitments.
i hope that the awakening that is now underway, through climate policy, will expand to a broader reassessment of our lifestyles and our production models.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has stated in its own interim report that it believes that, as commissioner dimas has said, this will be achieved by the means set out in the interim review of the sixth environmental programme, but the study of the commission's current policy indicates otherwise.
so we have a common understanding of what needs to be done, but as satu hassi said here, that is to say, whether these means are sufficient at all to put the european union on the road to sustainable development, we must certainly think about this together in all honesty.
we are now on the right track with regard to climate policy; if we can achieve the same ambitious policy in other areas, we will certainly succeed.
the use of emission-free or 'clean' coal, which involves carbon capture and storage (css), requires research and experimental facilities which cannot be financed by this fund, but which are in great need.
as rapporteur, mr gierek is clearly committed to promoting the use of coal for energy production and represents the national interest of his country in this matter.
it is up to the legislator to ensure an environment in which no one's rights are infringed.
mr president, mitigation is of course the most important part of combating climate change, but we are in a situation where we must also find ways of adapting.
for example, we already have building technologies available for buildings that do not consume energy but instead produce energy.
we also know that climate change will affect the living conditions of our citizens.
mr president, climate change is a fact.
environmental awareness and environmental business have a crucial role to play in meeting environmental challenges.
in finland, we have the perception that investing in wood, pellets, biofuels, wind and solar energy is shark-baiting or imposture.
environmental business is a major growth area for internationalisation and an important employer.
the global market for environmental businesses is worth €600 billion.
clean technology companies create products and services with a lower environmental impact than before.
clean technology combined with renewable energy sources will create a healthier environment and reduce health risks.
so a bad environment is a health risk.
climate change is also an opportunity to create new jobs, new green jobs, the it sector is moving jobs to asia, green technology can create new jobs for finns.
that is why we need a separate heading called the baltic sea strategy, so that we can have the right environmental policy, the right transport policy and even an energy policy, when we know that the baltic sea is going to be a gas pipeline from russia to germany.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy sector is facing a very serious ethical challenge.
energy and bread are now opposites.
there are many threatening generalizations, but the good news is that russia is preparing to supply europe with competitive renewable energy.
we need renewable fuels, but not in a way that takes up space from food production.
there is no reason to impede research in this area and therefore clear sustainability criteria for biofuels and the sustainable production of second and third generation biofuels are needed.
we must distinguish between this and our task of reminding china of the obligations inherent in the partnership; there must be a common effort to achieve the millennium development goals, to prevent conflicts and to ensure sustainable development.
the eu is also working to develop a common approach to climate change, with the aim of reducing emissions from the use of fossil fuels and the use of fossil fuels in the transport sector.
finally, it must be acknowledged that china does not share european views on respect for human rights, and that we must therefore make an even more vigorous effort to ensure that sustainable democracy, the rule of law and good governance take root in africa.
new challenges, such as climate change and its associated desertification and food shortages, are threats to human security and human rights.
a good example of this is environmental organizations, whose resources are often compared to those of industry, but in a very strange way: the budget of a single organization's forestry campaign has been compared to the total budgets of all the forestry companies, for example.
and on the other side, you should count all the money that environmental organizations spend on forestry campaigns.
the responsibility of the industrialized countries has been rightly emphasized in situations where the pursuit of economic advantage has caused unsustainable social and environmental damage to developing countries.
with the increase in environmental, health and safety standards in industrialized countries, most of the world's ocean-going vessels are scrapped in bangladesh, pakistan and india, often in very crude conditions.
the dismantling plants have little regard for health or environmental standards, and toxic substances such as asbestos are handled in shorts and sandals as workwear.
at the same time, low labour costs and a lack of basic standards make it economically attractive, leading in practice to environmental pollution and great human tragedy.
however, increasing unprofitable scrapping through subsidies is not a sustainable alternative in the eu.
rather, the aid should be directed directly to developing countries engaged in scrapping, which would multiply the environmental and social benefits.
therefore, support measures should focus on the creation of certified scrappage facilities using scrappage technology that is in line with the western approach to environmental and safety.
mr president, the knowledge of climate change is well established and recognized throughout the world, and there is no real scientific doubt about the human contribution to the current global warming.
this will also take account of the economic, ecological and social impacts of climate change.
i would particularly like to stress that in terms of the ecological, economic and social impact of climate change, we need to focus even more on energy efficiency.
i hope that in future action the commission will highlight in particular the possibilities for increasing energy efficiency.
as energy savings are the cheapest form of energy, they are also the best way of combating climate change from an ecological point of view, and i hope that the commission will come forward with new proposals and new impulses.
mr president, man is the cause of climate change and therefore man can also influence the other direction.
for example, according to some studies, the energy production of pulses is up to 15 times higher per hectare than that of grapes, palm oil and soybeans, so more research is needed on this and, among other things, we can reduce the use of palm oil and hopefully also stop it altogether, because it is in no way an environmentally friendly activity.
mr president, our resolution on the scientific facts on climate change contains a number of important points which are easy to agree with.
it's about our credibility, which we're going to need desperately to combat climate change.
paragraph 7 emphasises that scientific results 'clearly show how climate change will occur in the near future, following different regional patterns'.
last week, climate modelers in reading cited the need for supercomputers in their statement.
the question of the regional impacts of climate change is beyond the reach of current climate science responses, partly because of insufficient computer capacity.
in paragraph 8, the melting of the greenland and antarctic ice sheets is mentioned as a climate change tipping point.
i would also not be blaming and condemning climate change sceptics or critics as has been done in paragraph 10. politicians in particular should not do this, but leave it to the scientific community to debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the european union has been at the forefront of international actors in developing a climate policy that is more sustainable for the planet.
this report further strengthens the view of the scientific basis on which work to mitigate climate change must be based.
it is of the utmost importance that we act decisively on climate change.
each of the four ipcc climate panels to date has had to revise its predecessor's estimates of the rate at which climate change is progressing, outpacing previous community estimates.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'.
the eu should take into account the growing scientific consensus that to slow down global warming, co2 emissions should be cut more substantially than the ipcc recommended.
in view of these developments, i fear that the eu's climate package is not ambitious enough.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the eu's energy policy.
for the verts/ale group mr president, i would like to thank mr guido saccon for having produced a good result in the negotiations on this subject, as rapporteur for the report appointed by the committee on the environment.
the discussions between the environment committee and the commission showed that the commission was going to wait for the approval of these tests throughout the oecd, where any country can torpedo the decision.
the committee on the environment made it very clear to the commission that such a delay is unacceptable and we are prepared to use our veto under the new comitology procedure.
− i have been actively working on the aarhus convention since 2000, when we discussed the first pillar, the right of citizens to environmental information, and soon after the second pillar, the opportunities for citizens to participate in decision-making.
when i met local environmental activists in kazakhstan, these western self-evidences took on a new dimension in my eyes.
it is for this reason that i welcome the point in our resolution for the meeting which calls for the aarhus convention to be extended to all the principles of sustainable development.
in this way, the criteria of sustainable development are met through the principles of transparency, participation and accountability of the aarhus agreement.
this is the idea behind the aarhus convention: it itself generates a broad proactive environmental awareness, especially among citizens, thus creating new opportunities to improve existing practices.
energy security is also seen to play a significant role, in line with trends.
the report condemns the use of energy as a political tool by third parties, mainly russia, and the signing of bilateral energy agreements by member states without eu coordination.
russia cooperates directly with the eu member states, as the eu does not have a unified and coordinated energy policy.
the role of russia as an important and perhaps the most important energy partner of the eu must be recognised.
energy cooperation between russia and the eu should aim at a win-win situation.
russia and the eu must cooperate on energy policy, not oppose each other.
building a world organisation that respects people and the environment must be the main mission of the union, which has grown in international importance over the years.
the baltic sea strategy will require additional resources in the future to increase regional cohesion and to address environmental issues.
the energy security considerations in the report are also very aggressive from poland's unilateral point of view.
first, the union should have a constructive debate on the role of the united states in climate policy.
on the one hand, the united states must be encouraged to take the necessary climate legislation measures.
it should be stressed that the solution to the global climate change problem is a global carbon economy.
this requires the harmonisation and integration of the carbon market mechanisms of the different countries over time.
the regional emissions trading systems in the united states are a source of hope.
on the other hand, it is worth admitting that our partner has a better reputation for combating climate change.
eu-us cooperation is also important for achieving effective climate change adaptation.
when the 2002 johannesburg summit on sustainable development set the goal of halting the loss of biodiversity, the backstop was 2010. we are sad to say that we will not be able to achieve this in two years' time.
although environmental objectives have been high on the world's political agenda for more than two decades, a number of factors continue to threaten marine biodiversity.
we have every reason to be pleased with this outcome, for too much waste is still being dumped.
on average, just under a third of european household waste is recycled or composted, about half ends up in landfills and just under a fifth is incinerated.
in some eu member states, up to 90% of household waste ends up in landfills.
quantitative targets for recycling are needed, while at the same time we must put an emphasis on waste prevention.
i would like to stress, however, that there is also a need to make a strong effort to improve energy use.
it is time to put an end to the erroneous logic that waste recovery should not be developed because it will increase waste generation.
i therefore have to admit that i supported the council's line on the waste hierarchy and set out the guiding principle.
it would have made it possible to have a more flexible waste policy that takes account of the circumstances.
he recognised that energy from waste treatment plants was partly responsible for the eu's energy budget and had to acknowledge that in some member states energy use was seen as a threat to recycling.
although agreements based on sustainable development principles have been concluded in both sectors, they have not been sufficiently comprehensive.
consumers would be given the right to switch suppliers quickly and to be informed about the energy background, for example about environmental impacts.
energy producers must be separated from the owners of the energy networks into independent transmission system operators, i.e.
in many countries, it is virtually impossible for new energy companies to compete on a level playing field.
a staggering 77% of the european union's energy is produced by fossil fuels.
the present wasteful energy use has come to an end, as fossil resources are scarce and dwindling and concentrated in fewer and fewer hands.
only a well-functioning market can develop an efficient emissions trading system, an industry based on zero-emission energy sources and an energy-independent european union.
the same companies also benefit from the eu emissions trading system.
energy will be a big issue at the summit.
russia must ratify the espoo convention, which regulates the sharing of responsibility in transnational projects that may have environmental consequences for neighbouring countries, and russia must stop all talk of russian naval and military participation in the construction of the pipeline.
germany must show solidarity with poland and the three baltic states and convince them that they will not be discriminated against in their energy supply because of the project.
germany must live up to the motion for a resolution we are now discussing, which says that the eu must act in unity against russia in large-scale energy projects.
the eu, not russia's gazprom, is to set the rules for energy trade in the internal market.
i therefore believe that we have an opportunity now, when we are dependent on russian energy, to contribute our expertise to the modernization of the country, which is their aim.
energy security is an important issue throughout europe, and when people talk about energy, they usually also talk about russia and eu-russia cooperation.
the eu wants to secure its energy supply while reducing its dependence on energy from outside the eu.
our group supports the fight against climate change and we would have liked to see this objective more clearly reflected in the budget.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, the petition which the report deals with concerns the environment, but from the discussions we have had we have seen that the gas pipeline project has dimensions which are not related to the environment.
it is a major construction project which, if carried out, could have a detrimental impact on the baltic sea ecosystem.
it is therefore important to carry out objective environmental assessments to verify the risks and to weigh them against the benefits.
the amendments proposed by our group to the report are based on the principle that no concessions should be made in the environmental field, but that no artificial barriers should be erected either.
it is also true that the biggest environmental problem in the baltic sea at the moment is the agriculture of the surrounding countries, and the real risk is the rapidly increasing oil transport by ship.
nor is it a civilised way of conducting international dialogue to use energy for political pressure.
thanks to the public hearing in the committee on petitions in january, we can now expect nord stream to present an impartial and comprehensive environmental impact assessment.
the baltic sea is an environmental disgrace for the european union.
because we know how important the construction of this pipeline is to russia, we now have the possibility of requiring, before we give the building permit, that russia commits itself to certain other environmental projects to reduce emissions in the baltic sea.
the joint decision on the matter is justified because the baltic sea gas pipeline has negative environmental impacts on the baltic sea.
the environmental impact of the baltic sea gas pipeline must be investigated and the necessary measures taken.
the baltic sea environment can only be improved if russia is committed and takes an interest in the baltic sea environment.
russia's economic well-being depends on the export of energy.
on the other hand, the eu is dependent on russian energy.
the report is a fitting response to the concerns of the citizens of the union, and in particular of the citizens of the countries bordering the baltic sea, about the environmental impact of the proposed pipeline.
the construction of the baltic sea gas pipeline is primarily an environmental issue, in the light of which the whole project and its feasibility must be considered.
a major environmental disaster would be catastrophic for the ocean.
i strongly support the report's call for an independent third party to carry out an environmental impact assessment.
the analysis shall be based on a broad scientific environmental basis.
the international conventions also make it possible to get russia to commit itself to the negative conclusions of the environmental assessments.
construction activities should not be started until all potential environmental impacts associated with the life cycle of the pipeline have been assessed.
the union's energy needs are undeniable.
however, the means of meeting energy demand are diverse and one of the union's inland seas should not be put at critical risk simply because other alternatives appear to be more costly.
the proposed baltic sea pipeline will undoubtedly have environmental impacts that need to be studied.
it is polish domestic policy, which is being brought through such a loop into the community institutions as an environmental issue without reference to the political motives of poland and the baltic states.
unfortunately, there is no alternative to a submerged pipeline on land, but it requires the protection of the marine environment.
we can be reasonably satisfied with the outcome, given that emissions trading as a unilateral measure can never be a desirable course of action.
the danger is a carbon leak, which has direct effects on the environment, but above all on the european economy and employment.
this shows that emissions trading is not always about climate protection, but more about policy.
i hope that we will soon be able to join the global aviation emissions trading system, which does not cause a carbon leak but actually rewards the reduction of emissions and the rationalisation of all activities with environmental objectives in mind.
now, the emissions trading is punishing european companies the most, but they are on average flying with very new equipment.
it was therefore prudent to abandon the use of the multiplier at this stage, as this would have led to a rigging exercise with little environmental benefit.
i am particularly pleased that my position on the allocation of emissions trading revenues, in particular to the study on reducing aviation emissions, was accepted in the final compromise.
but that is not all: we must not forget the energy policy aspect either.
we cannot have an energy policy that is separate from climate policy.
energy policy can no longer exist without the financial or other instruments that make its elements possible.
the eu and its member states' energy white papers have repeatedly called for clean, independent and competitive forms of energy but only the last criterion, competitiveness, is a viable market mechanism.
i still do not see a market mechanism that would reduce our energy dependence - particularly on gas from russia.
this week, the european energy forum is hearing opec.
since the mistake of previous generations, energy dependence has been allowed to grow and flourish at our expense.
is it sustainable, is it the right direction to go in moving towards a low-carbon economy?
climate change is a reality, as are rising energy costs.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with another report which aims to liberalize the energy market, this time in the case of gas.
the commission's proposal does not protect against this and does not protect consumers from energy poverty.
the strategic energy technology plan is indeed needed and i congratulate the rapporteur on the inclusion of energy efficiency.
the funding for energy technology has been insufficient.
the strong turnaround in the energy industry across all sectors has meant that industry, awakened to climate change, is not getting the technology it needs fast enough.
waking up to the reality of climate change has shown how unprepared we are.
we must improve our climate cooperation with the united states and at the same time conclude an energy cooperation agreement with russia.
- mr president, the rack report on a new way of thinking about urban transport that we voted on is an important part of the new comprehensive approach of the commission's energy and climate package: significant emission reductions in europe can be achieved through sensible and efficient urban and transport planning.
mr president, i appreciate that the president of the council, mr nicolas sarkozy, has just expressed his desire to take an ambitious approach to the eu's energy and climate package and to reach an agreement on this during the french presidency.
i hope above all that it shows that the challenge of climate change is finally at the heart of policy.
emissions trading is such an important market instrument and it affects so many people that we cannot afford a political timetable that is ambitious at the expense of the environment and sustainable development.
last month i organised a hearing in the european parliament where environmental organisations, research institutes and those concerned with emissions trading were given the opportunity to present their assessment of the economic impact of emissions trading.
the message from the seminar was clear: the commission's proposal will lead to significant cost increases without corresponding environmental benefits.
we have to make the emissions trading plan better.
the very dangerous thing is that cuts have been made in heading 1, which is key for sustainable growth and employment.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
the coordination and comprehensive use of all human rights policy instruments is needed to bring about a real, lasting and sustainable change in the human rights and political situation in the country.
the second issue is climate change.
climate change will influence growth and jobs in europe.
we should not take the fundamentalist view about climate change that europe must act now and must do everything at once without global support.
thirty per cent of emissions, even if we were to go that far, is not enough to tackle climate change.
we should not punish european competitiveness too much, but take a realistic approach to climate change policies in europe.
for example, in the social package we should always take on board their views and how they see the social framework environment in europe.
- mr president, commissioner, the compromise resolution on energy prices prohibits the role of speculation in the rise in energy prices.
the price of electricity is also securitised, with virtual electricity being sold on the energy exchange at a higher rate than physical electricity, five times higher on the eex.
in the eu, harmonisation of electricity pricing is generating automatic windfall profits for large companies, and in 2013 emissions trading will multiply the speculative opportunities.
the energy derivatives in securitized form are put at the mercy of speculation, similar to the us subprime mortgage market: profits are privatized and losses are socialized.
capitalism is a casino where the price of energy is valued in the stock market.
this is a situation that is like the stormy bermuda triangle, where addiction, climate change and prices that are unsustainable for the poor are all intertwined.
but the ecological footprint of the poor is very small compared to the rich, who don't really want to reduce it, but are willing to pay more.
so should we, in this situation, introduce a progressive energy tax?
those who can afford to pay would pay proportionately more for energy.
or do you put a higher price on energy-intensive goods or services?
we are talking about sustainable development, and the energy poor are the heroes, and their position must be organised in a sustainable way.
it is important that they have their own language, but it is also very important to remember that special teaching measures are needed and also education as part of the education, because they are often rootless when they come from another country to a new, unfamiliar environment.
the united states is suffering from a mad money disease, and its symptoms are bank failures, the socialization of banks and insurance companies, and the socialization of debt by using the junk bank as a dumping ground for bank waste.
this should be a wake-up call for us to intensify our climate action.
if we respond to the melting of the arctic ice by simply accelerating the use of fossil resources, we will only make climate change worse.
mr president, as an oral amendment i would like to propose that the protection of biodiversity in our amendment would be an addition to the original text of the paragraph.
innovation, research, the creation of new value added, that is what we need if we are to ensure that economic growth is sustainable for decades to come.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank president sarkozy for the right line he has taken: the environment must be given priority in good times and in bad.
i would like to express my particular concern about the fate of the emissions trading scheme.
it gave a huge package of legislation too late and then warned against touching the package in the name of the international climate agreement.
the result is a bad emissions trading model, which, if implemented, will raise costs and threaten european jobs.
i do not see any environmental benefit in the fact that the cleanest products in the world, european products, are being burdened with this in the name of combating climate change.
the auction takes pollution out of europe and brings unemployment to us.
it's not good, and it's not responsible environmental policy.
we need more effective climate policy.
emissions must be cut in line with commitments.
it would be a great step backwards and a historical waste if this were to be reintroduced.
mr president, the facts speak for themselves: 26% of the eu's total energy consumption and 24% of its carbon dioxide emissions.
energy consumption and emissions are increasing by about two percent a year.
emissions are deteriorating air quality in many european cities and many regions are experiencing difficulties in meeting community air quality targets.
the cost savings of the proposal for a directive we are now considering are estimated at some eur 21.5 billion, not to mention the environmental benefits.
this is precisely why we should not be so eager in our ambition to solve environmental problems.
the compromise at first reading rarely meets the criteria of democracy, as we have clearly seen in the course of the debate on the climate and energy package in this parliament.
– climate change and depleting natural resources are important issues in our world today.
this initiative is a great start to helping clean our environment and helping make europe more sustainable in the future.
this legislation is key if the eu is going to reach its goals of reducing 20% of greenhouse emissions by 2020, increasing energy efficiency by 20%, and using renewable energies for at least 20% of overall consumption.
additionally, clean and energy-efficient cars tend to cost more.
it is important that we encourage all europeans to play their part in protecting the environment.
the ppe-de group has offered a solution to the problem of damaging industry whilst advancing the climate change mitigation.
we are all united in the attempt to reduce harmful emissions.
our first concern must be our planet, but i contend that the measures needed to stop climate change will not be helped by the economic decline of the leading climate-friendly economies leading to unemployment in the eu.
it's all about the environment.
it is a question of relations with russia, it is a question of energy policy, it is a question of shipping, it is a question of the economy, it is a question of very important matters, and through this budget line we can help to put these matters in order.
the commission proposal does not reflect the principle that sustainable agriculture should be possible even in the most difficult regions, a principle which has been reaffirmed three times by the european council.
family farming is too weak a negotiating partner against multinational food waste and global market forces.
mr president, there is a growing need to target agricultural support in a way that will steer agriculture towards sustainable development.
by paying agricultural subsidies we are actually adding emissions to groundwater and, through that, to the sea.
all sectors of the economy, including agriculture, must participate in environmental policies.
why would taxpayers continue to support a harmful industry in nearby areas when pollution can be outsourced by buying imported food?
it is only reasonable then that pollution should be paid for and not supported by the common funds.
agriculture must actively use the many environmental measures that exist.
it is very important that in the european union we try to simplify the environment for companies to flourish and to create growth for the european economy.
the eib's lending to new energy and environmental technologies would better meet the real needs of the world at this moment.
the argument that the commission is too big if each member state has a commissioner has not been sustainable either.
agriculture in developing countries is often carried out under difficult conditions, characterized by rough soils and a harsh climate.
unfortunately, the present model for effort-sharing proposed by the council would mean that the european union would reduce emissions mainly outside the eu through cdm/ji.
this would totally undermine the credibility of our climate policy.
an absolute red line for parliament is a 50% limit for offsetting, which would ensure that the majority of our emissions reductions are domestic.
this 50% limit has always been a cornerstone of the eu climate policy, through the long years of the kyoto negotiations.
the high cdm quota proposed by the council would mean a u-turn in eu climate policy.
this would give too easy an argument for everybody who wants to diminish and blacken eu climate policy.
the ipcc says that the industrialised countries should reduce domestic emissions by 25 to 40% and developing countries by between 15 and 30% compared to business as usual.
it is very hard to see how this would help international negotiations and i really hope that the french presidency understands this basic point of international climate policy.
mr president, the better use of renewable energy and the promotion of sustainable development is a positive thing for the regions.
in addition to positive climate impacts, it will bring jobs to the regions and improve energy availability.
for example, the cold climate of the north and the central role of the forestry industry must be better reflected in final decisions.
i would also like to point out that there are many forested areas in the northern region, where wood and sustainable peat are of great importance for the production of energy in the north.
mr president, we are well aware that there is no unanimity in parliament on the climate package.
it is important to remember, however, that we are in complete agreement on the reduction of emissions: emissions must be cut.
our group does not believe in this logic as long as emissions trading is unilateral.
if the scope of emissions trading were global, auctioning would be a good alternative.
unfortunately, that's not how the consumer environment works now.
the sustainable and increased use of renewable energy sources is a positive thing for the regions.
it creates new jobs, improves energy self-sufficiency and is also an important part of climate change management.
it also promotes the global market for machinery and equipment for renewable energy production.
this is also reflected in the compromise proposal which, among other things, makes possible the sustainable use of peat in small quantities in production processes, as proposed by our committee.
it is important that we can accept the compromise reached on this directive as part of the historic climate and energy package.
a lot is happening: the union has been putting an end to the war in georgia, we have begun to manage the major financial crisis, and now we are drawing up an energy package, which is no small thing either.
at the same time, employment will be boosted by the fact that industry will not be relocated and energy efficiency will increase, which requires technologies.
europe is now leading the change, based on solidarity also with those who are not as energy efficient as they are today.
i would like to thank all those who have worked so hard in parliament on the climate package.
our own group had a significant influence on the outcome, although it was not reflected in the position of the committee on the environment.
our alternative emissions trading model allowed for a change in public opinion and a free debate.
the main objective of climate policy is to achieve a balanced, global agreement.
this is how we can ensure that reductions in one place do not lead to an increase in emissions in another place, otherwise the sacrifices would be wasted.
unfortunately, there are now voices in the environmental movement that would be willing to go down this road of destruction.
experience has shown that unilateral austerity and climate puritanism are not welcomed by the environment, because they do not produce results.
the emissions trading directive currently before parliament represents a greenwashing of capitalism and is nevertheless capitalism itself: casino capitalism and the legalisation of speculation.
the commission's original proposal, which is designed to ensure that european industry is not directly exposed to speculation other than through the price of electricity, i shall vote in favour of, even though i am against, the emissions trading scheme.
i support the emissions targets, but they were supposed to be achieved by taxation, not speculation.
the eu was to show strong global leadership with this climate package.
almost every prime minister went to the summit with a national goal of waterboarding the climate package, and succeeded.
in the worst case, this can only lead to stabilizing domestic emissions, keeping them unchanged.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
following the international agreement, the eu commits to assisting developing countries in reducing emissions in a way that is consistent with limiting climate change to below two degrees.
there will be a time limit for limiting emissions from shipping.
for better or worse, this decision means that the real decision on whether the eu will make emissions cuts in a way that responds to the climate research message will only be made after international treaty negotiations.
secondly, this decision means that it is the member states' own political responsibility to decide how much emissions are actually reduced in europe.
i urge member states not to outsource the majority of their emission reductions to developing countries, but to invest green at home in public transport, railways and more energy-efficient buildings, while creating green jobs in europe.
we must remember that the earth is not compromising, the planet's deadlines are unconditional, and the most costly thing economically is to water down and delay emissions cuts.
it is clear that the sectors outside the ets also need strict, realistic targets, because they can do a particularly great deal to help us achieve an energy-efficient society.
the sectors covered by this directive, such as construction, transport, agriculture and waste management, are areas where we have the opportunity to develop new skills, and indeed to a large extent we already have those skills.
in this sense it was excellent that parliament could very clearly include energy efficiency in this directive.
the un's intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has called for industrial countries to reduce their absolute emissions by 25-40% by 2020. in addition, developing countries must reduce their emissions by between 15% and 30% compared to normal levels.
if we transfer more than half of our own emissions reductions to developing countries, we increase the amount of emissions reductions needed in developing countries to such an extent that it becomes physically impossible.
it is a wider lack of understanding that road transport cannot be increased indefinitely, because a very significant part of the emissions under this effort sharing decision comes from road transport.
as i said in my opening speech, i hope that governments will do more than what this decision allows and invest in reducing emissions in their own countries.
this will bring about permanent reductions in emissions, not those that have to be bought back from abroad every year, and it will also bring jobs home.
- i take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for the recent vote in which the european parliament explicitly supported my benchmark model, which i have long advocated and first proposed for the application of emissions trading.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
and that is a good thing: the commission's original proposal and the environment committee's position on emissions trading were both unbalanced in placing european production in a difficult competitive position on the world market without giving any particular climate benefit.
in addition to jobs, this would have been a clear loss for the environment, as it would have created pressure to shift production to countries outside the emission limits.
now the decision opened the door to a more equitable and environmentally sustainable approach.
the environmental objectives are unchanging and challenging.
the environmental movement's complaint about the watered-down package seems to me, frankly, unreasonable, given that the targets are being met and that the industrial sectors have a decreasing emission ceiling.