the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
secondly, as regards the contribution of the car industry to the fight against global warming, the co2 emission reduction targets are in line with the davies report which we voted on last october.
on the other hand, the fight against greenhouse gas emissions must also be achieved through fiscal measures, which encourage the renewal of the car fleet.
in order to be able to call these explanations of vote today, i propose the following amendment to our agenda: the commission's statement on waste in the campania region, currently scheduled for 9 p.m., would take place immediately after the angelilli report on the rights of the child.
the order of business would be as follows: from 3 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.: the cashman report, the angelilli report, then the commission statement on waste in the campania region, then from 5:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.: question time to the commission, then, in the evening session, from 9 p.m. to midnight, in the order: the pack report, the graefe zu baringdorf report, the oral questions by the members elected in poland and, finally, the explanations of vote on the voting points at noon.
this regulation will thus avoid many of the mistakes that have been made in the past and which have caused damage to the environment and public health.
first of all, i would like to welcome the method of carrying out a genuine industrial audit, with all the parties concerned, with a view to defining an industrial policy for the automobile sector which involves such essential parameters as the impact on purchasing power, employment, safety, mobility, the environment, the regulatory burdens on industry but also innovation, competitiveness, the problem of used cars, the deconstruction of vehicles, etc., and this in an internal market which is far from being finalised.
the chatzimarkakis report is supposed to outline the competitiveness of the automotive sector in the future, taking into account environmental constraints, product and safety standards, the international competitive context, etc.
why are the only private cars being criticised again, when in france, for example, they are responsible for only 13% of co2 emissions, certainly less than in countries which have not opted for nuclear power?
the roadmap will aim to make cars cleaner and safer and to simplify the legal environment in which european car manufacturers operate.
effective legislation must first be realistic, and the industry has long placed environmental issues at the heart of its policies.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
by taking on the responsibility of accompanying the ratification process of the lisbon treaty, by leading the work of the 27 to meet the challenges facing europe in terms of energy and climate, growth and employment, by pursuing the integration process of the western balkans, by contributing through your initiatives to the european year of intercultural dialogue, which will be an opportunity to reaffirm the values of openness, tolerance and dialogue that are at the heart of the european project, the slovenian presidency shows that the countries that have joined the union since 2004 are familiar not only with the union's institutional affairs, but also with its internal functioning and the way in which europe advances its interests at international level.
to create conditions for social growth, to make knowledge and innovation the engines of growth and to find answers to demographic challenges, energy supply and climate change, europe must play a leading role in negotiations with its global partners on a post-kyoto system.
this is a major challenge to which we must all contribute, each one in our respective member states, so that the next french presidency can finally put this new common base in place before the european elections in 2009. the slovenian presidency must also continue and complete the lisbon strategy to respond to the challenges facing europe in the areas of energy and climate, growth and employment.
madam president, president barroso has set us an ambitious target for renewable energy production, all of which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions without jeopardising growth prospects.
it seems to me absolutely essential that the overall effort to reduce emissions expected from each member state by 2020 should vary according to the initial level of those emissions per capita, without prejudice, of course, to solidarity mechanisms between states.
in other words, the overall share of non-carbon energy in each country's energy mix must be taken into account.
the guiding principle is of course to reduce greenhouse gases, to achieve a decarbonisation of the economy as the council conclusions of march 2007 stressed.
mr president, for me, mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner, there is no difference between civilian and military nuclear energy.
i think it would be a bit naive to believe that a country with impressive natural resources like iran needs nuclear energy to develop.
but we know very well that it needs nuclear energy to make the bomb.
at present, only 4% of the world's energy is nuclear.
could we not use the unfortunate experience with iran to stop the proliferation of nuclear energy on a global scale?
madam president, the bali conference reminded us that global warming is a challenge for development.
there are fears that global warming will widen the gap between the developed world and the developing world, which will undoubtedly be the most affected by the impacts of climate change.
the fight against climate change has become inseparable from poverty reduction and the achievement of the millennium development goals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commission president josé manuel barroso presented the legislative package on climate change and energy last week.
the evolution of social housing is therefore part of these sustainable development policies and requires appropriate financing to meet these new requirements.
the agenda calls for the report by fiona hall, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the energy efficiency action plan: realising the potential (2007/2106 (ini)) (a6-0003/2008).
madam president, i too would like to express my appreciation of the approach proposed by our rapporteur to remedy this waste of resources, which is rightly denounced by the current practice of dumping.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new type of pollution, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new types of pollution.
i also urge the era to recognise the importance of the overseas countries and territories (octs) as valuable partners in building bridges between nations and continents for sustainable global development, in order to address the challenges facing the planet.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for supporting my amendment on this subject in the opinion of the committee on regional development.
the united nations framework convention on climate change, held from 3 to 15 december in bali, was to set a timetable for the next two years and agree to extend the kyoto protocol, which expires in 2012. the first objective seems to have been achieved, but the second is still far from being achieved.
it is very regrettable that the international community has not been able to agree on a quantified target of stabilising and then reducing global greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020. the european union must strengthen the constructive and driving role it was able to play in bali so as not to provide pretexts for refusing to act to countries which reject any quantified objective.
while the bali agreement, signed by all the countries present, is to be welcomed, we must not give way to a new form of 'environmental wood talk'.
beyond the usual anti-warming talk about global warming and the measures to be taken to combat it, the question of the energy security and independence of the european states would in itself justify a better use of energy.
but in this case we are faced with the malthusian and culpabilising view which is present in all the reports of this parliament on this subject: blind stigmatisation of motorists, prohibition of certain equipment, the desire to dictate individual behaviour and to enslave individuals from an early age, to interfere in urban planning or construction policies, to promote taxation and energy pricing which in fact will only penalise the most vulnerable sections of the population... so yes to minimum standards, yes to encouraging research, yes to objective information that allows an informed choice, yes to promoting tax incentives.
i voted in favour of this report, which follows on from the march 2007 european council conclusions on energy efficiency, which stressed the need to increase energy efficiency in the eu in order to achieve the target of saving 20% of eu energy consumption compared to projections for the year 2020. i welcome the measures to improve the energy performance of products, buildings and services, to improve the efficiency of energy production and distribution, to reduce the impact of transport on energy consumption, to facilitate the financing and implementation of investments in the field aimed at stimulating and strengthening rational behaviour towards energy consumption.
european citizens must be able to benefit from the world's most energy-efficient infrastructure (including buildings), products (e.g.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the code also needs to be adapted to other radical changes in the international trade environment, in particular the increasing and irreversible use of information technology and the exchange of electronic data.
these instruments are essential to the international trading system, since they ensure fair and sustainable conditions of competition for companies, and in particular for smes, which are the first victims of dumping, and thus guarantee a healthy economy.
moreover, since this debate will have to be held at the multilateral level, why not be more forward-looking and include social and environmental dumping in the field of trade defence instruments?
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
europe must be able to take decisions quickly on energy, climate, food security, immigration and defence.
we must therefore advocate sustainable and rational development, which involves protecting the environment and combating global warming.
the growth of direct or indirect employment depends on the sustainability of labour activities.
their competitiveness is threatened by the increase in the cost of organizing our societies, and they are suffocated by the absurd management of the euro, which generates a competitive and additional income for countries lacking any costly social and environmental policies.
in the same way, since last march the heads of state and government adopted new legitimate, strategic objectives in terms of the environment and energy, we must take these into account.
well, we tell you, we want the coordination of economic policies, we want the issue of climate change, we want the issue of financial market supervision to be better addressed in these guidelines.
a population that will begin to decline as from 2020, economic pressures, an increase in the price of energy, climate change, social imbalances.
on the environmental side, measures to rapidly improve the energy efficiency of our buildings must mobilise considerable budgets and thus foster innovation and thus new jobs.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
where it has competence, the union will make its voice heard and take the necessary decisions on energy policy, foreign policy, judicial and police cooperation and environmental policy.
in the energy field, the treaty introduces a legal basis for a european policy on energy supply and renewable energies.
because it will be more readable, more united, the european union will assert itself as a world leader in the fight against global warming.
it will also send clear messages to emerging countries to encourage them to adopt a genuine sustainable development strategy.
the report considers that cooperation on energy issues is of paramount importance in the european strategy.
nevertheless, the european institutions will have to be vigilant and ensure that human rights in the region, as well as the environment, are not sacrificed to energy needs and trade agreements.
the text also seeks to highlight the present and future importance of these countries for the eu, particularly in trade and energy matters.
the european union must not abandon central asia, a strategic crossroads between the european and asian continents and a traditional partner in trade relations and energy cooperation.
now all of our fellow citizens have understood that there is a climate challenge.
finally, our report puts particular emphasis on the new challenges facing the union and their strong territorial impact - of course, there is the ageing population, climate change, energy, urban concentration, etc.
i welcome the scope of its proposals for the economic, social and environmental aspects of spatial development and territorial cohesion, and i welcome the attention paid to the proposals for improvement of the report put forward by my group, the pes.
putting people at the heart of building policy by reconciling the urban with the human, especially in this context of the housing crisis in a society where not everyone has a roof over their head paying more attention to decent and affordable housing remains an imperative, a crucial factor of social integration and quality of urban life, in a context of sustainable urban development.
the favourable demographic environment means that women who wish to do so can raise their children for a shorter or longer period.
on this matter, as your resolution underlines, we have had a number of meetings at technical level with belarusian experts on matters of mutual interest, such as energy, transport and environment.
finding a permanent solution to the root causes of the kivu crisis, and thus a sustainable restoration of peace in the region, will take time.
(applause) i would like to thank
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this own-initiative report, mr albertini has stressed the need for a comprehensive policy which takes account of all aspects: transport, energy and the environment.
human mobility, which is a source of wealth for society in various ways - economic, social and cultural - cannot be achieved without energy and often has negative consequences for the environment.
by setting ambitious targets with the energy-climate package, action must now relay the discourse, the discourses on these shared goals.
the aim is to achieve harmony by pooling efforts, by exchanging good practice in the interests of citizens and the environment, and, not forgetting the prevert inventory, by providing significant additional financial support to complete the priority transeuropean transport projects as soon as possible.
but, above all, if we focus on the local, it seems to me that the integrated approach can only be efficient through an intermodal approach supported financially by europe, especially in the congested metropolitan and urban areas, for guaranteed, safe and affordable mobility, in short, ecological and sustainable mobility.
it is europe for this priority in the fight against climate change; it is also europe for common external action.
the first kics will focus on key areas such as climate change and renewable energy, not to mention nanotechnologies which need real support.
we must therefore, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, change the financial climate and provide the means to achieve our real ambitions.
i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my distinguished italian colleague gabriele albertini which makes a number of recommendations to the players in this sector to improve a situation that is deteriorating in the face of increasing demand for oil with dwindling reserves, increasingly congested urban areas, and a negative impact on human health and climate change.
i support the three axes chosen to combine public policies: encouraging technological progress (cars with a maximum of 125 grams of co2 per km), developing market instruments (system of trading of co2 emission rights, tax incentives, environmental fees/tariffs, etc.)
i voted in favour of this report on sustainable transport policy.
it takes account of european energy and environmental policies.
this approach must meet the necessary conditions to be realistic, such as technological innovation to reduce co2 emissions from cars and the development of biofuels, the reform of the taxation system to take account of the impact on the environment, accompanying measures to optimise the use of infrastructure and to encourage citizens to change their habits.
each citizen can be a player in sustainable transport by favouring public transport over private cars when this alternative is possible.
we should also stress the impact of climate change and, above all, the challenge our citizens are putting to an intensive, ultra-liberal industrial model, which means that food products travel thousands of kilometres around the world, all this accompanied by social and ecological dumping.
the rules relating to fallow land must be reformed, but the commission must first define clearly the instruments which will make it possible to preserve the benefits it brings, particularly in terms of biodiversity.
finally, madam commissioner, we must really address the question of biofuels, which are very controversial from an ecological point of view.
the environment, which shapes agriculture as much as agriculture shapes the environment.
finally, the contribution of agriculture to climate change and sustainable development needs to be defined.
i welcome this resolution, which reflects the challenges facing agriculture of tomorrow, both in its role as a nurturer and in its contribution to the preservation of our environment.
energy sources are diverse but not all have the same potential, nor the same environmental impacts.
in view of the fight against climate change and the waste of natural resources, it seems necessary to take all of these measures into account.
biogas is therefore an energy that must be encouraged.
to this end, priority should be given to encouraging the production of biogas from manure, sludge and municipal, organic and animal waste.
as regards the production of biogas from waste, i would like to stress that it is actually a matter of profiting from waste, that is to say, from nuisances.
first of all, we must reduce the volume of waste.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as europe gradually acquires the instruments to limit climate change linked to greenhouse gas emissions, and as european citizens are suffering the full effects of rising energy prices, it is of course important to finally develop a legal basis for the collection and dissemination of energy statistics.
but we felt equally urgent to make them coherent with the challenges we face: saving energy, redefining our energy mix, with less carbon and much more renewable energy.
the governments, on the other hand, are of the opinion that the most up-to-date statistics will be available at the usual energy councils held every spring.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
this strategy is the best tool to face the challenges ahead: globalisation, demography and climate change.
the third and final challenge is climate change.
we need to put in place a policy framework for a sustainable, environmentally friendly economy, which means meeting the 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
in addition to the environmental benefit we will derive from this, it will also put us in a good position for the clean technology markets.
it's the oats that are used to thank them for the work they've done, but it's also the oats that should give them the energy for all the work that's left to do.
and i remember, ladies and gentlemen, the gothenburg summit, which was a great victory for ecology, since the heads of state had agreed that the spring summit should be set up to take stock of the sustainable development of our policies at european union level, that is to say, the environmental health balance, the health balance and social integration.
in europe, for example, mittal-arcelor, the energy-consuming company par excellence, is going to cut 600 jobs while making monstrous profits and the union is about to give it free greenhouse gas emission quotas.
mr president, you are announcing a revolution by proposing, for example, a 20% cut in greenhouse gas emissions.
so no, gentlemen, i don't believe in your project, it's way below, it's absolutely not up to the environmental crisis that's endangering the entire planet.
mr president, mr president of the commission, when you are in the european council, i ask you to do one thing: defend this institution when it tells you that the economic and social situation in the european union requires greater attention to the social question, requires us to bring our economic policies into line with our objectives and our legitimately developed strategy on climate change and energy independence; when it tells you that to succeed in the lisbon strategy we need more economic coordination; i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union.
i voted in favour of this text which makes it compulsory for member states to participate in the collection of data necessary for efficient energy statistics.
this is a prerequisite for the eu to live up to its stated ambition of building a coherent european energy policy and speaking with one voice on the international stage.
the eu has committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 and to achieving a 20% share of renewable energy in the eu's total energy consumption by 2020, with a 10% target for biofuels.
the energy statistics system must adapt to these commitments and take account of the growing importance of energy efficiency, renewable energies, the greenhouse effect, the development of nuclear energy and the emergence of biofuels.
i welcome the action of the european commission, which, as early as the sixth community environment action programme in 2002, recognised that the use of pesticides has a significant impact on human health and the environment.
their use must therefore be approached in a sustainable development logic and be the subject of harmonised and comparable community statistics on production, import, export and marketing in order to develop and monitor community legislation in this field.
those indicators should provide available, transparent, relevant and reliable data to reduce the risks and harm to the environment and human health arising from their use.
the active components of biocides are also used as plant protection products and produce almost the same effects on health and the environment.
the pse group has won some important victories, such as the criticism of the decoupling of aid (livestock and small crops), the objectives of the cap in terms of food security, ecosystem preservation, territorial development, the redistributive effect of the degressive ceiling, modulation, safety nets, the recognition of the role of inter-professional, the contribution of agriculture to climate change... however, i was keen to support several points, unlike the pse group: the partial decoupling of direct aid must be maintained for animal premiums, but it is necessary to ensure that not only intensive or large-scale farming (§26, §32) is taken into account, the references do not allow to value the respect by farmers of certain high environmental standards (§16) of the milk market, the redistributive effect of the decreasing ceiling, modulation, safety nets, the recognition of the role of inter-professional, the contribution of agriculture to climate change... however, i was keen to support several points, unlike the pse group: the partial decoupling of direct aid must be maintained for animal premiums, but care must be taken not to take into account only intensive or large-scale farming (§26, §32) the references do not allow to the historical value of the respect by farmers of high environmental standards (§16) of the land, the redistributive effect of the reduction of direct support of the reduction of the reduction of the aid (§6)
in writing.
because farming determines land use, environmental protection, biodiversity, water management, the animation and settlement of rural areas - but it is still a productive act.
the report estimates that direct support will remain necessary after 2013, not only in the event of market problems, but also to compensate for the services farmers render to society and the very high environmental, health and animal welfare standards.
the commission should be able to envisage the future introduction of a european reinsurance system for climate or environmental disasters and risk prevention measures should be financed under the first pillar (support for agricultural markets).
however, i would like to point out that i voted against paragraph 27:27. notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2012 were based on the information provided by the court of auditors in its annual accounts for the financial year 2012; in my view, biogas must be fed primarily from agricultural waste.
that would be bad for the environment, and it would negate all the benefits of agrofuels.
as the title of the report indicates, we must first of all promote sustainable agriculture.
i will be responsible for the opinion of the committee on agriculture on the draft directive on the promotion of renewable energy sources.
today we are being asked to raise the tax on diesel fuel to the same level as that on unleaded petrol, both under the pretext of protecting the environment and of combating 'tax tourism', that is to say the use of competition by citizens for their own benefit!
the aim of the commission's proposal was to establish measures to reduce co2 emissions under the ambitions set out in the energy-climate package.
however, neither the commission proposal nor the report adopted today responds to the urgent need to develop a fuel which is effective in combating co2 emissions.
to change the air in a changing era, we should be more imaginative in terms of the environment by voting for measures that effectively combat climate drift.
the commission's proposed taxation amendment and ms schmidt's report do not encourage research into or substitution by a new fuel with lower co2 emissions.
we welcome the fact that the republic of croatia has abandoned the ecological protection zone for fisheries in the adriatic, a source of tension within the european union, which is a very symbolic gesture, and thus shows croatia's commitment to membership of the european union.
madam president, the energy and climate package marks the advent of a new blackmail, the blackmail of carbon.
and to pass the pill of job cuts in lorraine, arcelor-mittal is leaving open the hypothetical possibility of a pilot project for co2 capture, even though this process has not yet been validated for its energy neutrality.
in fact, gandrange in the moselle region is becoming the trojan horse of the energy-intensive industries, of which mr sarkozy, the president, is the great defender in the european council.
i am very glad that the commissioner is here, because i really want us to reject a new kind of blackmail, this carbon blackmail.
the energy and climate package must be in line with the european legislative process if it is to be effective.
i have received, pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to wind up this debate.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs riitta myller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the mid-term review of the sixth community action programme on the environment (2007/2204 (ini)) (a6-0074/2008).
the agenda calls for the report by mr paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on support for smes carrying out research and development activities (com ((2007) 0514 c6-0281/2007 2007/0188 cod)) (a6-0064/2008).
james hansen, a climate scientist and research director at nasa's goddard institute for space studies, recently said that the scale of climate change has been underestimated, but that we have tools at our disposal, one of which is to shut down all coal-fired power plants by 2030. a gas-fired plant emits between 300 and 400 kilograms of co2 per megawatt hour, a new generation coal-fired plant 800 kilograms and a lignite-fired plant 1,000 kilograms of co2.
how consistent is the european union if, on the one hand, it develops an ambitious plan to combat and adapt to climate change and, on the other, it supports coal as a clean energy source?
today parliament has the choice of supporting a return to the coal age or being consistent with the climate package and therefore not promoting coal as a clean energy source.
for energy, we prefer reason.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
what are the real consequences of climate change?
should we not ask ourselves what growth we should be aiming for today to avoid further climate change?
these are fundamental questions, mr dimas, that you propose we ask today, because this is not just a question of the commission or the temporary committee on climate change.
i don't like this way of, let's say, maybe clearing ourselves, maybe even deceiving our fellow citizens into thinking that we can adapt to these climate changes, and that in the end it might not be so bad because we're going to have the means to adapt.
since we are at the beginning of the proposals we are making, we are proposing an energy package and we know how much resistance there will be to achieve results that are in line with what we are asking for, which is a minimum minimum.
we will have to convince mr louis michel that we must include climate change in the partnership agreements with africa.
what did he propose to do about climate change?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of climate change are here and will only get worse.
we are now aware that, despite the implementation of an ambitious policy to combat climate change, we can only stabilise the phenomenon, and that we must therefore adapt to the consequences of climate change.
adaptation to climate change will require ambitious financial efforts in many areas, the most important of which are, i believe, health, agriculture, water protection, housing and population migration.
the fight against greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation to climate change should become mandatory conditions for the allocation of european funding.
the european union must do everything possible to ensure that an international policy on adaptation to climate change is developed.
but adaptation to climate change is not just about increased use of technology.
they were bio-climate houses.
it is in this sector that solutions must be found to avoid, for example, the use of energy for air conditioning in houses.
the importance of energy efficiency in buildings should be emphasised.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yes to the climate package, because europe must send a strong signal to the world on the eve of the opening of the international negotiations in copenhagen.
the proposal would impose a double penalty system on these companies, paying both for the misuse of co2 emissions outside the quota and for any co2 emissions from the first tonne produced.
but should we give up the idea of charging for co2 emissions from the first tonne produced?
but then europe should have a fair mechanism by taxing imports from countries which would not make the same environmental efforts as european companies.
yes, let us create a carbon tax, because far from being a tool of frivolous protectionism, it is an instrument to ensure fair and undistorted competition in international trade, a fundamental objective of the european union and the wto.
it is positive that as many economic sectors as possible are included in the mechanisms, ets or otherwise, to combat climate change.
in conclusion, i hope that we will be able to reach an agreement quickly, that is to say before the end of the year, and that this 'climate' package can be implemented quickly.
why do we have emissions?
this text, halfway through, gives a worrying picture of the state of progress of the 6th community environment action programme (2002-2012).
the implementation of vital measures to combat climate change has thus lagged far behind.
similarly, the union's progress in preserving air quality, implementing and complying with community legislation, protecting biodiversity, reforming subsidy systems with a negative impact on the environment or promoting sustainable production/consumption patterns is extremely modest.
the report's findings are alarming to say the least, because at present, contrary to the european commission's claims, it seems highly unlikely that the timetable set six years ago will be met and that the environmental priority objectives will be achieved in 2012. in voting for this text, i join the majority of parliament in urging the european commission and the member states to make the necessary leap forward.
in this digital environment, however, freedom of access to the internet must be reconciled with the rights and freedoms of everyone.
recognising the usefulness of volunteering in all its components, public and private, is essential to its development and to the search for the great balances between the economic, social and environmental aspects; the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i voted to give the director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge.
it is surprising that a considerable amount of budget appropriations for operational activities was carried over by the european environment agency for the financial year 2007; the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
as regards the agency, i regret the very low rate of utilisation (67.7%) of payment appropriations for measures to combat marine pollution, whereas parliament has largely supported this type of measure in the budgetary procedure.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
and we will need to use varieties that can withstand the new realities of climate change and the scarcity of water resources.
climate change is not necessarily harmful everywhere, even though it is having harmful consequences in some countries.
i think that we should take stock of the policies that have been pursued for the last 20 years in the north and the south: the structural adjustment plans pursued by the major international financial institutions which have led to the weakening of the capacity of states to organise and regulate their own economies, the disengagement and disinterest in agriculture, in the context of official development aid, the deregulation, it has been said, the hasty liberalization of world trade and financial flows which have led to a form of social and ecological dumping, to speculation.
we cannot leave agriculture to the rules of the market alone, and today to speculators looking for safe havens after the housing crisis and the energy and mineral commodities crisis.
as a fictitious socialist rapporteur, i have devoted a great deal of time and energy to this dossier in order to arrive at the substance, to explain the need for a deeper dialogue with civil society in the field of the fight against drugs, and to propose a text that is readable and understandable by all.
the text adopted by parliament therefore urges the unblocking of the situation and sets out a number of complaints: priority should be given to poverty reduction (in particular health and education), specific consideration should be given to gender issues and a sustainable development strategy should be drawn up for the countries concerned.
while it is welcome that china is willing to provide concrete and pragmatic cooperation to african countries, there are many areas of concern such as china's cooperation with repressive regimes in africa, non-compliance with social and environmental standards, arms deliveries to repressive and undemocratic regimes etc.
i support the proposal that the african union, china and the eu should set up a permanent consultative body to ensure the coherence and smooth functioning of the various cooperation actions and to define a general framework for the implementation of concrete operational projects on common challenges such as adaptation to climate change, renewable energy, agriculture, water or health issues.
i also support the idea of initiating a dialogue between the chinese national people's congress, the pan-african parliament and the african national parliaments and our european parliament to promote sustainable development and to strengthen their capacity to scrutinise the executives in peace and democracy.
(the president cut the speaker off)
for the greens/efa group mr president, this is not the first time that we have spoken about biodiversity and asked the council and the commission to defend it.
it is good that we have succeeded in making climate change a priority for the european union, but we are still realizing that the conventions on biodiversity and the convention on desertification are somewhat overshadowed by climate change.
we know how important biodiversity, or, in the final analysis, the protection of nature, is for our own survival because we see that despite what we have been able to do at european and global level, the erosion of biodiversity continues.
i think we have to face the obvious: while we can try to stop climate change, we cannot do the same for species.
when we know, for example, that we have excellent tools such as natura 2000, the birds and habitats directives to combat the degradation of biodiversity in the european union, and when we realize today that there are still some member states that are reluctant to implement natura 2000, that we are reluctant to pay for natura 2000, we see that there is still a long way to go.
that is why i really want the commission to continue to support natura 2000, to continue to support these two directives and, at the level of the bonn convention, i would of course ask you to set up criteria for biofuels, but also to call for and obtain the creation of an intergovernmental expert group on biodiversity, as is the case with the ipcc, for climate change, because we could help the parties to set up tools that we are setting up ourselves, but which they are not able to set up today.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the environment committee has adopted a very good resolution.
but also to act internally to halt the loss of biodiversity within the european union by 2010. i would like to address three of the points raised by this resolution.
their environmental cost is considerable both for forests and agricultural land and we are increasingly measuring the impact of their development on food resources.
then there is marine biodiversity.
we now have studies showing their negative impact on the environment and in particular on the soil.
we know that their spread leads to pollution of conventional crops, which poses a problem for the preservation of biodiversity.
do you also have any idea of the sustainability criteria that could be presented in bonn for biofuels?
you will see that in this report we obviously mention the interaction with environmental issues, with health issues - as we have seen in the case of generic medicines and intellectual property, this is obviously decisive - but also the treatment of social issues.
cooperation between the ilo and the wto, which has been re-engaged by the directors-general of these two organizations, must go much further and the european union must give an impetus to this end, and we propose two very concrete things: firstly, that the ilo be granted observer status in the wto, as is the case with the international monetary fund; secondly, that a committee on trade and decent work be set up within the wto - and the union should propose this - just as there is a committee on trade and the environment, which has made a great deal of progress on the interaction between environmental and trade rules.
it is no use removing barriers at the frontiers if behind them there are still barriers to investment, social rights being flouted and environmental standards being ignored.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the aim is to maintain an open environment for investment while improving its transparency.
in particular, the negotiating mandate does not provide for the inclusion in the future agreement of a clause on social standards or an ambitious chapter on sustainable development.
it is the responsibility of the union to ensure that democratic principles of human rights, international labour organisation conventions and environmental standards are promoted and respected in all trade agreements it negotiates.
this is why it is, for example, essential that in the negotiations on services, the need to guarantee a universal, accessible and sustainable public service at reasonable prices and meeting high quality standards for all is respected.
on the one hand, we must do everything we can to save the last european forage and protein crops and encourage their redeployment by avoiding, for example, a total decoupling of aid during the cap health check, especially since these crops have indisputable environmental qualities for crop rotations and therefore for the soil.
the agenda calls for the report by anne ferreira, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the green paper on market-based instruments for the environment and related objectives (2007/2203 (ini)) (a6-0040/2008).
we can be satisfied today with the balanced report adopted by the committee on the environment, which is the result of a joint effort.
the european union's commitment to the environment, both internally and internationally, is unquestionable.
having set a number of objectives to respond to the environmental emergency we are facing, the european union must develop the means to achieve them.
firstly, it seeks to enrich a text which is, in my opinion, a little too focused on climate change.
the subject is certainly essential, but we must not neglect all the areas of human activity whose impacts on the environment are also very important.
in the green paper, the commission proposes to achieve environmental objectives at a lower and more reasonable cost.
the report also proposes that the commission draw up an action plan or other instrument for a market instrument for the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, and the establishment of a european environment agency.
as regards specific instruments, which i do not have time to deal with here, i would like to stress the scepticism of our assembly regarding the proposal on biodiversity.
it seems to us difficult, if not impossible, to make a real contribution to a more or less rare ecosystem in another territory.
at present, the environmental costs of human activities, especially industrial and economic, i.e.
this principle of variability must be increasingly taken into account in the development of market instruments for the environment; the commission is also proposing the same thing in the field of energy taxation, namely a division into two components: one energy and the other environmental.
we are of course in agreement, but the question that we can ask ourselves in this context is whether the cost of inaction would also be a social, economic, environmental and also a political cost.
this young high school student was very concerned about climate change and asked us how far we were willing to go.
so we have market-based instruments that have been put in place: the community scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, or, in the field of transport, the 'eurovignette' directive.
these instruments have advantages because they add value to environmental costs and contribute to the achievement of environmental objectives, at lower cost, and encourage companies to commit to longer-term, and this ultimately supports employment.
these instruments can help to reduce the adverse effects that environmental taxes could have on the competitiveness of certain sectors.
the approach to promoting sustainable development and combating climate change must not only be a deterrent, through taxes and fees, but an incentive by facilitating a faster transition to virtuous behaviour, behaviour that is environmentally compatible.
the effort must be made by all, hence the need to internalize environmental costs.
it is important to emphasize that environmental taxes should not be seen as a means of increasing tax revenue but as a means of preventing harmful pollution or environmental degradation at a reasonable cost.
finally, in the future discussions in the european parliament on the energy-climate package, the introduction of a border adjustment instrument, in particular to avoid possible carbon leakage, will have to be seriously considered.
the obligation to reduce co2 emissions while preserving economic competitiveness must be ensured, and in this way i stress the importance of the carbon tax.
first, the share of energy taxes, which represents on average 76% of environmental taxation, compared with 21% for transport.
secondly, households, which bear a very large share of environmental taxes, while other economic sectors are the main consumers of energy, water and transport.
thirdly, the share of environmental taxes in the gdp of the member states has decreased over the last five years.
beyond the member states' call for progress on tax coordination, i would also like to stress another point in the report: the reduction in taxation on labour cannot be linked to the reduction in environmental taxation alone, as the commission proposes.
paradoxically, he is asking that trade negotiations and dispute settlement should clearly include social, environmental and 'humanitarian' considerations, but that accession requests should be examined only from a commercial point of view!
therefore the commission supports ongoing regional efforts and the conclusions of the sadc summit, held on 13 april in lusaka, calling for the release of the presidential election results and, in the event of a run-off, the appeal made to the government of zimbabwe to ensure a secure environment.
why are we not using our currency to strengthen our capacity to implement the energy or environmental goals we have set ourselves?
i think it should be very clear that the credits needed for sustainable development and for real mobilization to avoid climate change must be issued at extremely low rates of interest.
the whole of these shocks are part of a global context of global warming and climate change which calls for a reversal of cycles and a questioning of certain dogmas on which we have based the prosperity of western societies.
the first is not to reduce our ambition to the creation of a transatlantic free trade area, but to work concretely to ensure that the development of our trade serves other, more virtuous objectives, in favour of social and environmental standards.
it recalls that so-called barriers to trade between the eu and the us are often laws that have a specific social, environmental, cultural or public health purpose, and that these barriers cannot be removed without democratic decision-making and positive legislative action that safeguards these objectives.
yes, large european companies are tolerating or causing direct violations of social rights or the right to a healthy environment.
yes, the food crisis is a challenge to our agricultural and energy policies.
the impact of climate change on human rights is also clear.
thirdly, and lastly, and of course to conclude, it is also very important, as we have done in the various speeches this evening, to stress that any trade agreement must incorporate the necessary requirements in terms of economy and sustainable development.
firstly, counterfeiting, in particular the counterfeiting of medicines, which is a real danger, a real danger first of all to the smooth running and calm climate of economic and trade relations with the countries of south-east asia, but also and above all to consumers, whether in terms of safety in general or in terms of product quality.
i would like to emphasize once again the need to combat counterfeiting of medicines with this dual motivation: to protect consumer safety and to protect the pharmaceutical sector from unfair competition which does not respect the environment and safety rules.
the second aspect concerns the development of legislation to reduce co2 emissions from companies, including mutual agreements on emissions trading.
we must bear in mind the need for the european union to avoid penalising our companies by imposing on them the fair and logical provisions of the new environmental standards in the context of the climate plan, without requiring in return that other countries adopt similar rules.
the inclusion of these two points - in form and in spirit - in our relations would help to maintain the competitiveness of our european companies while protecting consumers, not forgetting, of course, the preservation of the climate.
social, health, environmental standards, etc.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the image of the azores, the canary islands, guadeloupe, guyana, madeira, martinique and réunion, often equated with regions inundated with community or national funds, without any evidence of the positive impact of these funds, is hardly offset by the real added value they provide for the union in environmental, cultural or geostrategic terms.
in the field of transport, my report is concerned about the inclusion of civil aviation in the european co2 emissions trading system.
community action must be a catalyst for the spirit of initiative to develop centres of excellence, drawing on sectors which make use of the strengths and know-how of the ors, such as waste management, renewable energy, energy self-sufficiency and biodiversity.
i welcome the public consultation on the future of the union's strategy for the outermost regions, but consider that the themes chosen, such as climate change, demographic change or the management of migration flows, agriculture and maritime policy, although they are essential issues, do not cover all the major concerns of our regions.
while they are hampered by handicaps, they also have undeniable assets which must be exploited urgently to ensure effective and sustainable development in the future.
to give our islands a boost, we must also grow and ensure the sustainability of the quality agricultural sectors which contribute to the diversity of our community products.
finally, it is to take advantage of the geographical situation of the outermost regions, particularly in the caribbean and the indian ocean, by promoting better cooperation with neighbouring third countries and by making the most of our insularity to develop genuine excellence in scientific research, particularly in the maritime, climatological and environmental sectors.
these objectives can, however, only be achieved within a specific regulatory framework, the current article 299 (2) of the treaty, the spirit of which should guide the specific application of european public policies, particularly in the energy and transport sectors, but also in international trade policies, with the interests of the ors being taken into account in the negotiation of economic partnership agreements.
this applies to scientific research, marine resources, biodiversity, european social policy, climate change and the incomparable contribution of cultural diversity.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
this report, madam president, has the great merit of integrating the various aspects of this policy: environmental, economic, social and security aspects.
it is also true that scientific discoveries, considerable technological progress, globalisation, climate change and marine pollution are significantly changing europe's relationship with the seas and oceans, with all the difficulties and challenges that this entails.
the amendments concerned the recognition of the added value of the ors in the spatial area, renewable energy, energy self-sufficiency and biodiversity, the importance of the public service for the development of the ors, the observation of the poor integration of the ors into the european research area, the recognition of the benefit of the net-biome programme and the capacity of the ors to make significant contributions to established international priorities.
finally, as part of the review, i regret that my request for a study of the social and environmental impact of the sugar and banana coms was rejected.
fuel cells are discrete and efficient energy converters, which can significantly reduce the production of greenhouse gases.
the parallel issue of maintaining the tobacco cmo and thus postponing the 2004 reform which was to apply from 2010 will have to be addressed in the cap health check as decoupling causes almost total abandonment of production without any sustainable alternative from the point of view of the economy and employment, which has had very serious consequences for the rural area concerned but no impact on public health.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a step in the right direction.
energy, food and raw materials are not products like any other: the survival of peoples depends on them.
community interventions should act as a catalyst for the spirit of initiative to develop, from the ors, centres of excellence, drawing on sectors that value their assets and know-how, such as waste management, renewable energy, energy self-sufficiency, biodiversity, student mobility, climate research and crisis management.
europe's maritime spaces (two oceans - the atlantic and the arctic - and four seas - the baltic, north sea, mediterranean and black sea) and coastlines (70,000 km) are essential to its well-being and prosperity; they are the trade routes, the climate regulators, the sources of food, energy and resources, and the places where europeans live and play.
in a context of globalisation and rapid climate change, there is an urgent need to act by establishing an integrated maritime policy for the european union, based on the recognition that all issues relating to europe's oceans and seas are interlinked.
maritime surveillance, which is essential to ensure safety and security in the use of maritime space, maritime spatial planning, which is a fundamental planning tool for environmentally sustainable decision-making, and a source of comprehensive and accessible data and information are all very interesting avenues.
the eu would have much to gain from adopting a coherent strategy in the implementation of the various sectoral policies which have an impact on the maritime sector, such as certain social, industrial or environmental policies, and thus fostering the establishment of a genuine 'network of solidarity'.
i also welcome the desire to strengthen the fight against global warming and pollution by creating genuine innovation hubs which can also be a source of competitiveness and social welfare for the union's coastal regions.
the agenda calls for the report by fiona hall, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the selection and authorisation of systems providing mobile satellite services (com ((2007) 0480 c6-0257/2007 2007/0174 cod)) (a6-0077/2008).
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european union, which is partly responsible for these social and environmental problems, must take the right measures, in cooperation with the imo, to put an end to social and environmental dumping due to economic incentives.
and then, of course, without wanting to deprive south asia of this great market, we must also provide for installations in european shipyards so that we can recover what is waste ourselves and then develop what could be called an ecologically rational dismantling, all of which serves as the basis for an international agreement.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
mr president, commissioner, i apologize for the delay, but i tried to respect the speed to respect the climate.
our main debate today is about the scientific evidence on climate change.
my dear colleagues, the scientific knowledge on climate change is now established.
the majority of experts now believe that we can no longer doubt that global warming is real and that it is largely caused by human activities.
the interim report by the european parliament's temporary committee on climate change is the first phase of a process that will lead to the search for solutions.
when we talk about climate, we talk about the melting of the arctic ice sheet, desertification, global warming, the movement of animal species, but above all the phenomena that could have catastrophic consequences for the movement of human beings.
the regions most seriously affected will be the poorest countries in africa, asia and central and latin america, where environmental migration is expected.
it's not going to be political refugees, it's not going to be economic migrants, it's going to be climate refugees.
it is no longer about questioning the fact of climate change, but about working together to find solutions and to put those solutions into practice.
and the climate-energy package tabled by the commission in january is currently being discussed in parliament's environment and industry committees: emissions trading scheme, climate burden sharing, carbon capture and storage and renewable energy.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union has assumed the role of global leader in the fight against climate change vis-à-vis its global partners and it is essential that it remains so.
if we do not take our role seriously and urge the united states on the one hand and the powers, as you have mentioned, commissioner, china and india on the other, to join us in the fight against climate change, who will?
and let us define a sustainable partnership structure which, in a win-win spirit, allows turkey to assume its role as a regional power and the european union to continue to build its identity in the world.
mercury can be obtained from the recycling of waste (e.g.
mercury waste should be temporarily stored for more than one year in deep, underground and rock salt mines or in surface facilities, in such a way as to exclude any risk to human health and the environment, before being treated.
i voted in favour of the report by my excellent german colleague, mr hartmut nassauer, drawn up at first reading under the codecision procedure, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
i support the position to reinsert the scheme in the strict field of community law by limiting the effect of the directive to cases of infringement of community environmental law only and, therefore, leaving it to the member states to determine the penalties to be applied in the event of infringement of that law.
it is useful to point out that the directive aims to oblige the member states to provide for criminal penalties in their national legislation for serious infringements of the provisions of community law relating to the protection of the environment, without creating any obligations relating to the application of such penalties which may be invoked in individual cases.
the court of justice of the european communities, by a coup de force, with its judgment of 13 september 2005 in the so-called "environmental protection" case, granted itself a right to intervene in the criminal law of the member states in cases of infringement of environmental legislation.
the new stage is now to establish a harmonised set of offences which should be punishable by criminal law in all member states, and to harmonise these criminal sanctions in the case of environmental offences.
i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my german colleague klaus-heiner lehne on simplifying the legal, accounting and auditing environment for companies, in response to the european commission's communication on the same subject.
equality between men and women and better integration of women into the working environment cannot be conceived in an authoritarian and repressive way.
i voted in favour of the interim report by my german colleague karl-heinz florenz on the scientific evidence on climate change in the european parliament's temporary committee.
scientific consensus on the origins and causes of climate change is well established and globally recognised.
scientific evidence from all continents and most oceans shows that many natural ecosystems are already affected by regional climate change due to historical carbon emissions from industrialized countries.
it has also been scientifically proven that the underlying causes of global warming are largely man-made.
i am pleased that the report stresses the need for further analysis and research on the consequences of climate change such as the impact on economic competitiveness, energy costs and social change in europe, the role of land use, the role of forests and deforestation, the role of the marine environment and the calculation of the external costs of climate change from industry, and in particular transport, including quantification of the impacts of air pollution.
let us be clear: what i am criticizing is not the need for man to take care of his environment, to preserve the immense diversity of nature or, for economies, to find ways of using natural resources better and saving them.
it's the ritual sacrifice to the new climate religion and its new gurus, these mind-oriented scientists who cast anathema on anyone whose work goes against their untouchable conclusions.
it is the industrial and economic suicide of europe alone on the altar of so-called global warming, with no benefit for the environment at world level, but with the worst human and social consequences for the european populations.
it affects children, the many peasants forced to kill their daughters, a lower source of income that does not ensure the sustainability of the farm and the pension, or the second child, who has no right to exist on creon's orders.
the major european groups are relocating and outsourcing to countries which practice wage, social, health, fiscal and ecological dumping, and in the meantime the european union is refusing any industrial policy.
in the field of food, public health and education, only sustainable solutions can address the root causes of the current crisis.
the global food crisis (83% price increase) which is currently translating into hunger riots in developing countries and a reduction in the purchasing power of the most modest european consumers is, in my view, linked to: - unprecedented stock market speculation on the prices of basic food products, which unacceptably takes advantage of tensions and high volatility in agricultural markets; - the development of energy crops at the expense of essential food crops; - the shortcomings of european development policy; - the fact that support for export crops in developing countries has come at the expense of food crops and food self-sufficiency; and - the current rules of world trade which create particularly unfair conditions for small farmers, especially in developing countries.
), reverse the decoupling of aid and rethink our agricultural production models globally so that they are productive and sustainable.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
it also concerns energy supply, the fight against global warming, migration management and the protection of human rights and civil liberties.
on this point, i welcome the fact that the new regulation is more firm on the respect of the standards of good governance: workers' rights, human rights and the environment.
it is a chance for equitable, sustainable and supportive development.
as you know, iuu fishing constitutes a major threat to the sustainability of fish stocks and marine biodiversity, which undermines the very essence of the common fisheries policy.
i do not believe that it is necessary to expand any further on the disastrous global environmental and economic consequences of iuu fishing, as you are well aware of that.
- madam president, the events taking place in brussels today show us how much the future of european fisheries is threatened if the european union is not able to implement sustainable management of fisheries resources and a fundamental reorientation of the policies pursued so far.
today the situation is no longer sustainable and european fishermen, as well as all the players in the sector, such as ngos, are unanimously calling for a more effective fight against this phenomenon, which accelerates the degradation of resources and is totally unfair competition compared to those who respect the rules.
there is still a lot of work to be done, as you know, to ensure a sustainable future for european fisheries, but an important step will be taken in the coming weeks and i am delighted with you.
the truth of the matter is not only that iuu is an activity that threatens the sustainability of fish stocks, but it is also an activity that threatens the future of honest fishermen within and outside the european union.
it will also be necessary to encourage and reward much more, to pay much more for behaviour, for smart, sustainable practices, and often fishermen, fisheries companies that are moving towards practices that are both extremely respectful of the rules and innovative in terms of sustainable fisheries management, may feel that they are not recognised, that they are not being rewarded enough.
but we are called upon to work together, and we must begin - and the commission has made this perfectly clear - with concrete projects on pollution, energy production and employment for young people, which is absolutely essential for our countries on the coast.
if we do propose to our partners to build a project for the 21st century, based on climate change, on renewable energy, on restoring a totally degraded environment around the mediterranean, then yes, we can join this project.
the european commission's proposal and this report are therefore an essential element in implementing sustainable, responsible fishing that enables european fishermen to make a living from their trade.
i am glad that the members of the european parliament have recognised the importance of deep-sea ecosystems as a major source of marine biodiversity, and that shifting fishing effort to these habitats could lead to the destruction of our heritage.
the ecological awareness of the european parliamentarians is not intended to hinder the already difficult work of our fishermen, nor to increase bureaucratic pressure.
the preservation of marine biodiversity will only be guaranteed if it is vertically integrated into other community policies, in particular the future maritime policy of the european union.
it is true that customs are responsible for checking the movement of goods and their compliance with standards (product safety, consumer protection, health, environment, etc.).
this proposal for a regulation follows the 2004 guidelines on the role of the gsp for the decade 2006 to 2015 which introduced several new objectives such as, for example, targeting preferences on countries that need them most, extending gsp coverage to products of interest to developing countries, increasing the transparency and stability of the graduation mechanism and introducing a new special incentive scheme to promote sustainable development and good governance.
i share the view that the cfsp must gain more democratic legitimacy by allowing parliament to exercise real control over this policy, also speaking with one voice and demanding various priorities: the causes of the current insecurity in europe (terrorism, organised crime), energy security, the fight against climate change and sustainable development, improving stability in neighbouring regions, crisis management and conflict prevention/resolution, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, migration management, the promotion of human rights and civil liberties worldwide.
as co-rapporteur of the pse group, i made the following proposals:- this is a priority to meet the food, energy, environmental and territorial challenges, - new farmers must benefit from support measures, especially those who do not inherit the holding and those who move to areas with permanent natural handicaps: higher set-up aid, reduced rates for agricultural loans and accompanying measures after set-up - these support measures must be mandatory under the 2nd pillar of the cap and the issue of access to land must be studied - living conditions in rural areas must be improved: equal access to public services, public services, social living spaces ... - we must develop vocational training (during access to employment and vocational training) and promote farmers' knowledge by respecting the standards of the european level and by promoting the quality of life of farmers.
with the experience of their elders, they have the dynamism and enthusiasm to make the necessary environmental, technological and economic changes that will enable european agriculture of tomorrow to maintain its central place in the world.
the cap cannot afford to neglect those who will ensure the community's food sovereignty in a sustainable way that respects people and the environment.
we must help the fisheries sector to modernise so that it can free itself from the constraints of the cost of diesel, while taking into account our obligations in terms of environmental protection and fisheries management.
madam president, first of all, i would like to warmly congratulate our rapporteur, caroline jackson, on the outstanding work she has done, which reflects the quality of her expertise on this sensitive issue of waste management.
the waste hierarchy and the ambitious recycling targets set for member states 50% for household waste by 2020 are welcome; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european waste management system, the establishment of a european waste management system, and the establishment of a european waste management system.
it is also important that incinerators be subject to energy efficiency criteria as provided for in the text, provided, of course, that incineration is really the solution used insofar as there is no other way.
the text which also tightly regulates the control of hazardous waste and strengthens its traceability, all of this seems to me to be very positive.
of course, this is a compromise and we would have liked to go much further on certain points, such as the addition of environmental criteria in the definition of recovery, the strengthening of the conditions for the exit from the waste status or the question of co-products, the definition of which is problematic.
it is important to know that our european waste policy has so far been a failure, so it is much better to agree on a solution that seems reasonable and the european commission must be sufficiently vigilant to ensure that this directive is properly applied.
on the formal side, i think that working for two years on a text so that the final decisions - which are not just adjustments - are drawn up in secret, far below what was adopted in the committee on the environment and arrive on the tables of members only a few hours before the vote, does not allow us to work in good conditions.
in substance, this compromise text is a renunciation text which abandons a clear definition of recovery, abandons the desire to stabilise the volume of waste, abandons ambitious recycling targets and unfortunately shows the inability of the commission and the council to translate into action the great ambitious declarations made on the european and international scene.
no, i am not satisfied, and i am even worried about our political inability to really act on our environment and on our health and its improvement, and that is also why i voted no.
the question of hazardous waste seems to me to be an essential issue in the problems of traceability, non-dilution and uniform storage of information on waste movements over a long period, i.e.
this is more than regrettable from the point of view of health and the environment.
finally, other issues, such as the end-of-life status of waste or recovery, seem to me to have been sacrificed in the name of an agreement at second reading.
i would like to express my sincere thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen, and also to the secretariat of the committee on the environment, the advisers of the political groups and my assistant, sylvain maréchal.
the water framework directive sets out a strategy to combat chemical pollution of water.
the purpose of this proposal for a daughter directive is to ensure a high level of protection against the risks posed by certain substances in the aquatic environment by establishing environmental quality standards.
it was therefore obvious that the commission should draw up guidelines to help harmonize inventories, emissions and discharges and mixing areas.
this directive is the last daughter directive to the water framework directive and it was very important that we reached a compromise which is a real step forward in our ambition to combat pollution, and in particular chemical pollution of water.
finally, mixing areas and knowledge of pollutants and sources of pollution and emission controls need to be improved.
we will ensure that parliament is vigilant and i thank you, commissioner, for indicating that, in addition to what was provided for in the compromise we are about to vote on, the commission would like to take stock of the implementation of the water framework directive and, if necessary, if delays were accumulating in the member states or if uncertainties were to be removed, to present us with additional measures to ensure that good ecological status of water is achieved in 2015, in accordance with what we voted for in 2000.
the rapporteur.
we cannot accept that any longer and i believe that the european citizens are perhaps also expecting europe to give this strong signal for the protection of our environment, for the protection of our health.
to succeed in this task, customs has been able to renew itself in depth thanks to a new customs code, both lightened and enriched by new technologies which will ensure an administrative environment without paper, and finally thanks to cooperation.
in short, the rural environment must be made attractive and livable.
let us not waste this opportunity: by adopting the directive as it stands, we would be accepting that the council should dismantle all the progress made in human rights here over the three years of negotiations.
according to oecd figures, we will produce 45% more waste by 2020 than in 1995. it is therefore urgent that the european union develops a new waste management strategy which allows each waste to be considered not only as a source of pollution to be reduced but also as a potential resource to be exploited.
the compromise adopted in plenary today will focus on prevention and recycling with a target of stabilising the volume of waste produced by 2012 and recycling targets of 50% of household waste and 70% of construction and demolition waste by 2020 , impose separate collection by 2015 for at least paper, metal, plastic and glass, strengthen the regulation for hazardous waste by imposing separate collection and reliable traceability, separate collection of waste oils also to be provided, and differentiate incineration operations for the final disposal of waste from those that generate energy recovery.
thus, under an energy efficiency formula, only the most energy efficient municipal solid waste incinerators will be classified as recovery facilities.
i voted in favour of this text, which sets environmental quality standards for priority substances and certain other pollutants, with the aim of ensuring a high level of protection of the aquatic environment.
33 pollutants (mainly pesticides and heavy metals) that can be found in rivers, lakes and coastal waters will be subject to environmental quality standards.
in the vicinity of sources of pollution, it will not be possible to meet environmental quality standards quickly.
madam president, listening to all my colleagues this afternoon, i am a little surprised because we all agree on the need for a large european energy market, but i think we have to work on energy efficiency above all else so that the consumer bill is as low as possible.
if the decoupling of assets and the single market had led to a fall in energy prices, this would have been obvious.
this whole food chain approach is the most sustainable approach to reducing pathogen levels.
in addition, we need to pay attention to biofuels policy and find a way to ensure their sustainable production, both within the european union itself and in other countries.
the third important round of discussions at the european council will be devoted to economic, social and environmental issues.
the first thing to be highlighted here is the review of the work on the climate and energy package.
the european council will also take note of the agreement on the liberalisation of energy markets, which was debated in parliament yesterday.
the issues are the surge in oil and food prices, climate change and energy security, migration and asylum to name but a few.
the lisbon treaty remains essential to help us respond to the challenges that europe faces today; to have a more democratic union, increasing the powers of this parliament and recognising the role of national parliaments in european politics; to enhance europe’s capacity to act in areas like migration, energy, climate change, internal security; to increase europe’s coherence and effectiveness on the global stage.
for the last six years we have spent a lot of energy on institutional issues.
with so many key issues pressing for action today we cannot afford this energy to go to waste, and the world does not stop and wait for europe.
i hope this time we really have an opportunity to change, and to change the paradigm of energy consumption in europe and in the world.
however, it will be futile for governments to use public money to offset energy-price rises that are here, most likely, to stay.
we will also come with proposals on taxation to support and facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy, namely in the field of energy efficiency.
we will also support a high-level meeting of producers and consumers of oil and fossil fuel energy.
the pressures being faced by europeans today show why the european union’s goals on energy security, energy efficiency and climate change are so crucial to the well-being of european society, and this is why they are more urgent than ever.
the basic idea is the following: the prices of energy most likely will never go back to previous levels, so there is a structural problem there.
the structural response is our climate change and renewables package; it is not to be dependent on fossil fuels but to promote renewables and to do more in terms of energy efficiency.
(applause) so i hope that now in europe those who still have doubts about the importance of changing our energy paradigm, those who still have doubts about the need to fight climate change, will understand at last that, if not because of that but because of energy security and because of the need to increase our competitiveness in our economy, we really need to deliver on our commitments regarding climate change and renewables.
by saving i mean increasing energy efficiency where we have a huge unexploited potential.
diversification covers both the sources and the geographical origin of energy.
both are about increasing europe’s energy security.
adoption of our climate change and energy security package is, therefore, a matter of urgency.
those challenges will remain: the problems of energy security, the problem of climate change, the problems of international terrorism, the problems of increased competition coming from emerging powers, and the problems of migration.
(applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
but did the irish people mean by voting no that on climate and energy, on the new food system, on human security, on immigration or foreign policy, our countries are self-sufficient and can fight on equal terms with the united states, china, india or brazil?
we did not make europe for competition alone; we are united by values, we have a social project, we have a model of society, economic, social, sustainable, human, and this model is worth taking on, wearing and defending.
we must rethink, re-shape the european project so that it responds to the crises we face today - the financial crisis, the food crisis, the energy crisis - but also to the enormous problems that lie ahead of us.
how can we create, design a growth tomorrow that is more qualitative, more sustainable, more equitable?
we have not been able to reassure them of the ecological crisis that is striking them head on.
we must, of course, manage migration flows today, but in relation to economic immigration, in relation to climate immigration which is about to arrive, we cannot respond with defenses like those that were voted on earlier.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
this third energy package dogmatically persists in the path of total separation between production activities and energy distribution networks.
it aims to subject the entire energy sector to the sole laws of the market and competition between all.
the same causes produce the same effects, and it will lead the union to a catastrophe of a magnitude greater than that experienced by california in the year 2000. this policy is bad for users, for employees in the sector, for smes/smis, for employment, for safety and for the environment.
the market and the private sector are unable to meet the energy needs of the european people, the challenges of global warming and post-fossil energy.
we need a real energy europe, but it can only be built on the basis of cooperation.
the energy sector must be driven by the coordinated public action of the member states and not by that of the financial markets.
the union must act to ensure that energy is recognised as a global public good and not just another commodity.
the third option, supported by the french socialists but unfortunately not adopted, appeared to be a much more reasonable solution since it would preserve the financial integrity of the major european energy groups while entrusting the organization of electricity distribution to independent regulators.
i welcome, however, the progress made in this report in terms of consumer protection, and in particular the introduction of the principles of combating energy poverty and of transparency and accessibility of information for the end user.
clearly, the real objective of this third energy package is not security of supply, quality of service, affordability or the real choice of supplier by consumers, but the final dismantling of what remains of the old public monopolies in electricity.
that is why, although we have always defended here the exclusive prerogatives of the states in the field of energy, a strategic area of too great importance to be left to the eurocrats, we will support as a lesser evil the solution of 'effective separation' proposed by france and germany, among others.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
oil is a fossil energy in limited quantities and its price increase is irreversible and sustainable.
i wonder, therefore, whether the european union, while not concealing the realities of the rise itself, could not ensure price stability on an annual basis, allowing public sector budgets, in particular those of the member states for taxation and those of local authorities, companies in their contractual relations including the price of oil and, more generally, citizens for their family operating budget, to take better account of the major developments in energy without being subjected to the daily pressure of sudden changes in the price of crude oil linked to world prices, speculation and the euro/dollar exchange rate.
in view of this situation, the european union very well anticipated the situation last year by adopting a strategy which i would call the four-twenty strategy in 2020: minus 20% energy consumption, plus 20% energy efficiency, plus 20% renewables.
when we want to implement a european market in services, we forget that we may have to take account of the reality of social rights in the member states, and when we want to provide the european union with a just long-term energy strategy, we forget that this has, in the language of economists, a transitional cost and that the answer to the question of which purchasing powers will be most affected is that it would be those of the lowest categories, those who are most helpless in the face of the rise in oil prices.
it is therefore a question of finding sustainable solutions, not just for the fisheries sector, but for all the sectors concerned.
finally, we want the member states to take full responsibility and to stop making demagoguery by promising money they do not have, without offering sustainable prospects for fisheries.
but i would like to take this opportunity, since we are in a sense among ourselves, to stress that this text represents in my view an important step towards better regulation of the conditions for the transport of dangerous goods within our borders and that the question of the transport of goods, and in particular dangerous goods, is an important problem for our citizens and in relation to sustainable development.
sustainable development requires combining the different modes of transport to achieve better fluidity in our cities and countryside.
far from being built around the car as in the past, the motor vehicle remains an essential vehicle for the intelligent and sustainable mobility we wish for.
this is achieved through the concept of intelligent and sustainable vehicles, based on a triptych: a safer vehicle, a cleaner vehicle, a smarter vehicle.
beyond this declaration of principle, europe must accompany this action in practice by means of directives and policies which, in the long run, will integrate all electronic systems, whether nomadic or not, allowing process control and vehicle controls in compliance with greater safety, greater cleanliness in terms of reducing co2 and particulate emissions.
if we want to be part of sustainable mobility, we must also widen the scope of these policies.
the research and innovation axes must make it possible to incorporate this research in order to eventually create the intelligent road, enhancing safety, managing energy expenditure, using dialogue between vehicles, and making traffic more fluid.
the european union wishes to promote the knowledge society and knowledge and sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
at the development level, the eu is already the main aid donor for somalia, providing medium- to long-term support for establishing a peaceful and self-sustainable society.
priority is therefore given to promoting a peaceful and secure environment in which human rights are respected and democratic processes and institutions can develop.
on that occasion, president yusuf made a strong appeal for international assistance to support a better, secure environment for people living in somalia.
some questions were raised about piracy and i would add that, although it is not competent for the deployment of naval forces as foreseen by unsc resolution 1816, the commission has set up, together with the council, a working group composed of the relevant directorates-general – namely the energy and transport dg, the maritime affairs and fisheries dg, the development dg and europeaid – to study the best way to implement the un resolution.
however, there is a need for rural development, energy, immigration, global warming and international solidarity.
i will focus on a paragraph in the haug report which points to the lack of correlation between the needs to combat climate change and the budget of the european union.
the commission tells us that it takes 10% of this small percentage for climate change, i.e.
the united nations framework convention on climate change, the stern report, the undp, the world bank, all tell us that to really counteract these effects, we would need to mobilize between 0.6 and 1.6% of gdp.
another interesting figure is that to help developing countries, the un convention on climate change - again - tells us that it would take about 100 billion dollars a year to finance all these projects.
the commission tells us that it is interesting, that it is going to make a global alliance for climate change and that it is giving it 20 million euros a year for three years.
and when i say pit, it's actually a pit so abysmal that you could sequester all the carbon in the atmosphere.
europe needs a strong, 100% public eads group if it is to have an industrial policy that meets the needs of clean and energy-efficient air transport.
madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a compromise which has been negotiated and which allows aviation activities to be included in emissions trading.
this is a good thing, because we are all in favour of the european commitment to climate change, and we are all in favour of reducing co2 emissions, but not at any price.
efforts will therefore have to be made to strengthen the fight against co2 emissions by ensuring the simultaneous implementation of the other policy strands: the technology and the single sky strands.
the need for rapid and effective action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular the impact of transport on global warming, is now clear.
however, for this legislation to be successful, it was essential to reconcile the environmental objective with that of citizen mobility.
finally, we must not forget the major european infrastructures (transport, energy, space, water, new technologies, health, etc.)
the aim of this gas market directive is not to protect national incumbents but to give them the opportunity to be major european energy champions.
mr president, we are faced with two radically opposite approaches to gas, as to energy in general.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market.
another approach is to treat energy and gas and their supply as a public service due to all on the basis of equality and territorial equalization.
it would lead to a genuine energy europe based on cooperation and the common interest.
it would be built around a european energy agency which would coordinate and pool all the research efforts of the member states and guarantee equal access to energy for all citizens.
it would be based on a grouping of economic interests including european energy companies, both public and private.
i believe that on the eve of the adoption of this energy package we must bear in mind three challenges.
first, the energy or climate challenge, which shows how much attention we need to pay to the nature of the resource that is gas and to treat it in a very specific way.
and today there is great concern, both on the part of consumers about their access to energy and on the part of employees about the prospect of the dismantling of gas companies.
certainly, when prices are higher, it accelerates awareness of the delicacy of climate change.
but we must respond to these three challenges, the ecological dimension and the security of supply dimension, and we must therefore choose the best of the three paths, the third.
starting to promote a set of healthy goals will therefore be the fundamental basis for this crucial commitment to combat climate change.
this pressing challenge requires a redefinition of the european strategic plan for energy technologies, which is based on two recalibrated axes: producing cleaner and better with regard to co2 emissions through innovative technologies, spending less by reducing energy expenditure in all its forms and by valuing all solutions.
unfortunately, this basic common sense is not sufficiently reflected in our main policies and the reduction of energy expenditure is not sufficiently supported in the set plan as in the main european structural policies.
when will we finally respond to this urgent demand, to the formidable challenge of climate change?
we are lagging behind in our funding of low-carbon technology research.
our energy efficiency will be total and, in a minute, exceptional.
however, today, when we talk about the climate plan and the idea of actually limiting greenhouse gases, the question of rail and non-road transport arises.
these seemingly highly technical issues are therefore in reality highly political, since they determine our transport policy and our political priority in the fight against greenhouse gases and climate change.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at sea.
no one can believe that the official inflation figures (3% for 2008 according to the report), which are only composite indices, reflect the reality of the rising cost of living for citizens, especially for basic products, energy, housing.
because they are not spared anything: harsh interrogations of up to 188 days, during which torture is proven, confessions and judgments to be signed in hebrew, detention outside their territory in israel, without any basis, renewable every six months at the whim of the arbiter, submission to an ad hoc and discriminatory military court without any legal justification, lack of access to a lawyer during the first ninety days of detention, a visiting right that is almost non-existent.
while fishing is obviously very important in these regions, on the moroccan side, for example in dakhla, fish is exported to brazil and supports the whole town, which is why the fao and the acp are concerned about sustainable fishing and a code of good conduct.
but i insist that this must not be at the expense of those who have succeeded in reducing their energy dependence by using fishing methods and instruments better adapted to the needs of the time.
new global challenges, such as the scarcity of fossil fuels and climate change, require urgent and joint solutions.
let us take two concrete issues that were at the heart of the g8 debates: climate change and development issues, two issues in which europe has taken the lead on a global level.
the united states has now joined the fight against climate change by very broadly agreeing with our positions.
i welcome the priority given by the french presidency to the establishment of an integrated energy policy and the fight against climate change.
i have made it a priority for my institution, and i would like to thank president sarkozy again for his unwavering support of the european commission's climate/energy package.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
but if we cannot convince everyone that the major issues, such as security, climate, energy or migration, can only be effectively negotiated at european level - and, at the level of the major regions of the world too, europe must be strong to convince the united states, india, china and brazil - we will not be able to envisage a serene future.
we are not spending that much energy on creating jobs, defending our interests, promoting our social model and our european identity.
there is urgency, whether it is on the climate front, energy front, migration front, food security front or defence front.
the alternative is clear on climate and energy.
either our countries feel that they must move forward and set an example before the copenhagen summit, and then we must take firm decisions by december, even if we demand reciprocity from our international partners, or our countries conclude that, despite the deterioration of climate conditions and despite our energy dependence, it is urgent to wait.
if we have the ambition to say that the climate package, we have to accept it as it is, and that, in the next sentence, we kneel before the lobby of the german automobile industry, we have lost, because all the others will come and say: "we too".
none of the promises made to europeans to accept the loss of their independence, their sovereignty, their identity, their culture have been kept, neither growth, nor full employment, nor prosperity, nor security, and it is the anxiety that prevails on the eve of the systemic crisis that is coming: energy, food, financial crises.
i would like to say that i am fully aware, and i say this to president daul, that parliament will have the last word on the energy-climate package, but better than that, it is not a question of the last word.
and by explaining that defending the energy-climate package does not mean that we are naive.
it is not respecting the environment and accepting relocations, it is respecting the environment and refusing relocations.
if you ask states to choose between the environment and growth, you put us all in a dead end.
sustainable growth and environmental protection are factors in economic development.
i should have spoken more about european energy policy.
there are a number of you here who are wearing particular t-shirts because you are against a form of energy.
but there is one thing that can bring us all together: we need a european energy policy, transparency on stocks, pooling of research on solar, on electricity, on biomass, on hydropower.
i am sorry that i did not say so in my first speech, but the definition of an energy policy, despite our differences on nuclear energy, despite these differences, will be a priority of the french presidency.
this is a point on which we cannot waste time.
the french presidency has chosen to focus on four issues, which is obviously very useful, particularly in the climate issue.
this european model is economic, it is sustainable and it is also social.
i think about the question of agricultural products and i think we must stop subsidizing the export of our agricultural products, and we must instead work towards self-sufficiency for africa in the areas of food and energy.
i support the idea of having a mechanism at the borders that allows for fair and undistorted competition that takes into account the impact of environmental measures related to energy/climate issues.
− mr president, the parliamentary elections in december are indeed essential for securing sustainable democracy in bangladesh.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of the european union in several sensitive areas: first of all our energy supply.
more than ever, europe's energy security must be ensured.
we must develop and protect alternatives to russia's energy transport infrastructure.
the eu's priority, therefore, in addition to the deployment of european observers in the framework of the osce, should be to stop the escalation at all costs and to explore as quickly as possible, and without arrogance, the possible ways of drawing up a new legally binding pan-european security and cooperation treaty which would take into account all the outstanding issues: territorial integrity, inviolability of borders, the fate of frozen conflicts, non-use of force, disarmament, up to and including energy security.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
we must also promote a competitive environment for our businesses, but we must in particular support small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the key players in job creation.
the main task of the centre is to provide a scientific assessment of fisheries resources and the impact of fishing on the marine environment, taking into account the environmental characteristics of the area.
this agreement is a real step forward in the promotion of fisheries resources and sustainable development.
it is a question of creating the conditions for sustainable and responsible development, in other words, an ecosystem of this knowledge economy that we all want.
i have identified four pillars that i have set out to strengthen: service to the consumer, whether in terms of access through more ambitious territorial deployment fair price or quality; sustained industrial activity to ensure employment and innovation, technological progress also being a factor in lowering prices; the competitiveness of our companies, large and small, which guarantees sustainable competition in our territories and the necessary investments, particularly in fibre, to strengthen our position on the world stage; and finally, legal certainty, i.e.
i shall speak first on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, for which i was rapporteur, and then on behalf of my group.
of 360 companies, 45% of those with fewer than 250 employees responded to the online consultation launched by the commission between 21 august and 21 october 2006. our committee would like to emphasize that, in addition to the information requirement, the ghs also aims to protect consumers and the environment.
a global approach is entirely consistent with the objective of increased protection of health and the environment and the exchange of products.
in this sense, the eu would be well advised to propose the holding of an international conference along the lines of the helsinki conference which gave birth to the osce in 1975. for the time being, the justified postponement of the negotiations on the strengthening of the eu-russia partnership should not obscure the need to build a balanced dialogue with russia on all issues of common interest, including democratic values and the energy dimension.
in this respect, it is regrettable that the european parliament has not called more clearly for a review of our energy strategy, which, in addition to the announced diversification of our sources of supply, must include the development of renewable energies and energy savings.
finally, the report also considers that any deliberate and irreversible damage to the environment is in fact a violation of human rights and therefore calls for it to be included among the grounds for sanctions.
mr cappato and mr gawronski also raised an important issue, and several speakers returned to the question of environmental damage.
it is true that environmental damage is not included in the objectives of the common foreign and security policy today, so it is true that from this point of view there is no consideration and that we must consider whether we should not include environmental damage, since it is a threat to international security or to the rights of the people, human rights.
i would also like to say to mr cappato that in the various cases mentioned, there have already been energy sanctions in the practice of the european union and that this has already existed in various circumstances.
vital services such as water and energy must also be considered with a special status.
as part of the city, this component must be integrated into the sustainable urban planning of our cities, in line with the major, voluntary objectives of the fight against climate change.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
hippocrates once said that to study medicine, you have to study the climate.
and while we can acknowledge the efforts made by the european commission since the launch of the environment and health action plan in 2004, we can regret that it is not based on a genuine prevention policy to reduce environmental related diseases with a clear and quantified objective.
ten years ago, when we were talking about climate change, the health risks were almost never mentioned.
whereas the health programme 2008-2013 aims in particular to address the traditional determinants of health such as diet, smoking, alcohol and drug use, this action plan 2004-2010 should focus on some new health challenges and also address the key environmental determinants that affect human health.
i am thinking of air quality, electromagnetic waves - this has already been discussed - nanoparticles, chemicals of concern - we have seen in reach - substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic to reproduction, endocrine disruptors, as well as the health risks from climate change, i have spoken about.
i would also like to point out that respiratory diseases are the second leading cause of mortality, incidence, prevalence and cost in the union, are the main cause of infant mortality in children under five years of age and are continuing to increase, in particular due to outdoor and indoor air pollution.
on the question of health, the urban environment, and in particular the quality of indoor air, the commission must do more to combat domestic pollution, given that the average european citizen spends 90% of his or her time indoors.
madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to start by congratulating our colleague on his work and determination on this matter, a determination which i share, because the link between the environment and health, if it is now widely recognised, deserves to be addressed in our political action.
it is therefore essential to make progress in order to have better knowledge in this area and, above all, to implement actions to limit the negative impacts of our environment on our health.
it was necessary to take account of the effects of climate change and to propose an assessment of the health risks, just as it was essential to talk about electromagnetic fields.
i am also pleased that the report includes a reference to the 2007 report of the european environment agency, showing that air pollution, in particular from fine particulate matter and ground-level ozone, is a significant threat to the healthy development of children, leading to a decline in life expectancy in the european union.
i regret, however, that health problems in the working environment could not be incorporated into the text.
i would remind you that millions of people today suffer from diseases linked to their working environment, which have various origins: stress, work intensity, various pollutants, musculoskeletal disorders linked to poor ergonomics of work stations.
for example, i read in the commission's 2007 communication on the 2004-2006 objectives that 'we will look at the possible environmental and health effects of nanoparticles'.
is there also coordination between the different national environment and health plans drawn up at government level and the european action plan?
and finally, madam minister, if you will take the floor again, has france, for example, linked its work to that which it has carried out in the framework of the grenelle environmental programme?
we already had a set of regulations on soil protection, waste, pesticides, nature protection, groundwater and so on.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
i also voted in favour of amendment no 5, which calls for universal, accessible and sustainable public services to be guaranteed for all in the context of epas.
mountain agriculture is a key issue for local economic development and environmental protection (combating climate change, biodiversity, providing safe and open recreational and tourism areas, etc.).
the specific disadvantages faced by mountain farmers due to altitude, topography and climate justify the payment of compensatory allowances for natural handicaps and the receipt of direct income support to compensate them for the extra costs of production and also for the increasing role of managers of the land they occupy.
such a strategy will enable these regions to meet the challenges of competitiveness and sustainable development, as they are not only potential sources of economic growth, but also guardians of high-quality productive traditions and help to preserve our landscapes.
the european parliament's commitment to eradicating poverty, promoting sustainable development and achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs) is the only way to achieve social justice and a better quality of life for the one billion people living in extreme poverty in the world.
in addition, these accidents are an environmental disaster and cause economic disasters.
this will only make the european institutions even more illegitimate in the eyes of the people in the event of another disaster, especially when we know that the european union is committed to the general agreement on trade in the world trade organization (gats), whose committee on maritime regulation declares that the current environmental and safety regulations for maritime transport are excessive and need to be revised downwards.
we must continue the reform of the common agricultural policy, we must make it more market-oriented, while promoting sustainable agriculture throughout the union and ensuring adequate supply.
there are biofuel policies, which must also take account of economic and environmental imperatives and ensure that the prices of these new fuels are limited.
the union has always affirmed iran's right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, and if iran wishes to restore the confidence of the international community in the peaceful nature of its nuclear programme, it must suspend sensitive activities related to the nuclear fuel cycle.
the union strongly regrets that iran suspended the provisional application of the additional protocol in february 2006. the result, as the director-general of the international atomic energy agency has pointed out, has been to reduce the agency's knowledge of certain aspects of iran's nuclear programme.
on climate change, mrs wallström, you told us that we must pioneer smart growth.
we cannot talk about an international climate agreement if china, the united states, brazil, india, don't commit to it.
europe wants to protect itself against shipping accidents and pollution of its seas and oceans.
the recent tragic examples of the prestige and erika shipwrecks are a reminder of our duty to take precautions, to control the safety of ships, but also to be responsible in the event of an environmental disaster.
this is now a reality: the international tropical timber agreement, negotiated by the commission in 2006 at the un conference on trade and development (unctad), illustrates these new concerns for the sustainable and lawful exploitation of forest areas.
i also hope that the commission will go further and draw up comprehensive legislation so that only timber and derived products from forests managed in a sustainable manner and harvested legally reach the european market.
this is the only way to encourage producers to produce legally and in a way that respects the environment and thus to encourage the rational and sustainable exploitation of tropical forests worldwide.
the european central bank, through its monetary creation, has a decisive role to play in directing money towards a socially efficient economy, one which creates jobs, promotes training, develops public services, produces sustainable products and useful services, gives full priority to research and development, respects public enterprises and the general interest and puts cooperation above economic warfare.
- mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in energy prices has many negative impacts, the most visible of which is the increase in the cost of living for our citizens.
they highlight once again our dependence on energy.
to reduce fluctuations and especially rises in energy prices, various measures must be taken.
the first angle of attack concerns the cyclical control of energy prices which should be implemented now, i.e.
they should also encourage national social measures to tackle energy poverty in low-income households.
the second angle of attack is to work on the prices of the energy we import.
what do you propose to ensure that the european union speaks with one voice with the producing countries - we always say 'speak with one voice' - so that these neighbourhood policies or partnership agreements give energy the right dimension?
to do that, we need to break this symbiotic relationship between increased growth and increased energy consumption.
it is crucial that our growth does not automatically generate a proportional increase in energy consumption.
of course, we must develop renewable or low-carbon energy sources.
energy efficiency is also a source of savings, but it is not yet sufficiently implemented.
the emphasis should be on the physical and technological storage capacities of energy, but also on the vectors of energy consumption.
can you tell us, minister, if you have any hope that the energy/climate package will be adopted in the next few weeks?
mr president, we always talk about renewable energy when we talk about prices.
well, we know that it is going to cost us an arm and a leg and so financial responsibility regarding energy prices often has gone with the wind.
what about meeting the needs of tomorrow’s increasing energy consumption?
we are just talking about the environmental standards regarding nord stream.
well, that is a little bit like looking at the standards of the rope that is a noose around your neck, because nord stream and such projects are reducing our energy independence when we have to increase our independence.
by refusing to legislate, by ignoring the various resolutions of the european parliament and by choosing to try to regulate the sector by way of recommendation or administrative decisions, the directorate-general for the internal market has created a climate of legal uncertainty.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
because they want to have the care that they need nearer to their families, they want to speak their own language and to be in a familiar environment.
then there is the medium and longer term: the measures needed to bring stability and sustainability back into financial markets.
there are in fact many other points but, because of time, i will just concentrate on two issues very briefly: the climate-change and energy package, and the lisbon treaty.
first the climate-change and energy package.
without it there will be higher costs later, we will be more vulnerable to energy shortages, and we will lose the chance of exploiting some big new markets.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
but while the european union is prepared to show patience and understanding, the status quo is not sustainable in the medium and long term.
and i would add, mr president, that on the climate/energy package that we have on the table at this difficult time, we must proceed cautiously, keeping to the broad lines, not scaring the companies, so that these investments continue to take place.
and for a year and a half, we had uncertainty and we have to reassure, we have to accept and we have to follow for the environment, for our planet, the system, but we also have to accept what is happening at the financial level.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, for several weeks now we have been witnessing, against the backdrop of billions of euros and dollars being thrown at you, a global rampage and unsustainable waste.
the financial crisis does not erase the external crisis, with russia and georgia and in other parts of the world, a financial and external crisis does not erase food crises and ecological crises.
thirdly, we must move towards a development model which is more sustainable, more long-term oriented and fairly resource-managed, while taking into account the very sharp economic slowdown which we all know we are going to face.
president daul has perfectly underlined what the adjustments to our remaining objectives, particularly with regard to the energy/climate package, should be.
i believe that we must find targeted measures, in the framework of all the reforms that europe is implementing, to adapt to a much more difficult environment of competition and to find ways of helping small and mediumsized enterprises in a concrete way.
we must not forget, as minister jouyet has very well said, that all these crises are linked: the financial crisis, the global food crisis, the energy crisis, important aspects of the geopolitical crisis.
for the persecuted of poverty, war, climate perils, the denials of the right to asylum that has become increasingly restrictive, what will change?
so it's really, to me, the collapse of the current system, a completely outdated system, a system that has brought bankruptcy, that has brought the earth to be totally exploited and suffocated by greenhouse gas emissions, that has brought about underdevelopment in the south, and that has brought about underdevelopment in our cities.
in this spirit, the proposal for a regulation on co2 emissions from new vehicles will have to be decided on in a balanced way between the various aspects: sustainable development and safeguarding jobs through innovative industrial policies at all levels, including social aspects.
we want to reform the wto - we say in our draft resolution - we want to add a better consideration of other dimensions that are related to trade, including environmental dimensions, to deal with impacts on climate change, and social standards.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recent energy debates in our institution show that energy is a precious commodity, a vital need.
let's stop the waste, let's preserve this resource.
the report also addresses the issue of water scarcity and drought, both immediate and long-term problems in the context of climate change.
our parliament attaches great importance to the issue of water quality, through texts such as environmental quality standards and the current debate on pesticides.
water is a common good for mankind and i regret that some of my amendments were not accepted by the committee on the environment.
i hope that the cap reform will also include a review of certain farming methods, and i am thinking in particular of irrigation methods which are not suitable in certain areas of europe and which will have to be abandoned in order to stop the waste of water.
first, the international panel on climate change has told us, with the authority of a scientific consensus now shared, that the arctic is facing greater dangers than we thought just four or five years ago.
the inuit's living conditions are threatened, their biodiversity is in question.
the union has the competence - and i believe it is urgent - to ask for this, for reasons of safety, for reasons of navigation policy and climate protection, for reasons of preserving initiatives which could produce too many calories.
the vote will take place today at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr peterle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the white paper entitled 'together for health: a strategic approach for the eu 2008-2013' (2008/2115 (ini)) (a6-0350/2008).
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i am concerned, however, about the pollution of soil and groundwater by the use of dangerous agricultural pollutants, as has been the case in french overseas countries, particularly in martinique and guadeloupe, with the long-lived molecule chlordecone.
this pollutant, banned in europe for almost thirty years, was kept in use in french overseas until 1997. today, in addition to the risk of serious public health problems and the hindrance of economic development, this pollution will make it impossible to achieve the objectives set by the ecw, the european water framework directive of 23 october 2000, at least for martinique.
will the european commission continue to accept that member states are in breach of its directives in such sensitive areas as the environment and health?
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the global alliance against climate change must become an effective instrument to enable the poorest countries to adapt to the consequences of climate change, of which they are the first victims.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the ep also called for a strong link between climate change and the current food crisis.
finally, we have called for the development of environmental, social and economic criteria for the production of agrofuels and for food security to be guaranteed before promoting export agriculture.
are our european policies on transport, the environment and regional development really taking each other into account?
mr president, there has been a third subject during this presidency, which is extremely difficult: the future of the energy-climate package.
the ambitious energy-climate package is based on the belief that the world is headed for catastrophe if it continues to produce under the same conditions.
when we decided to embark on the energy-climate package, we did so with a sense of responsibility towards our children and the future of the planet.
so it is not simply europe's resignation for itself, it is the resignation of the whole world to the environmental appointment.
as a result, thanks to the environmental bonus, 50% of the cars sold in my country are now clean cars!
as regards the energy and climate change package, it will take a very big effort to reach an agreement before the end of the year.
we need to reinforce the synergies between our lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and our climate and energy agenda.
promoting investment in low-carbon technologies and energy efficiency measures will, at the same time, support our competitiveness, our energy security and our climate change agenda.
for example, helping the construction industry, yes, but doing this by promoting an energy-efficient housing stock.
using state aid where necessary, yes, but in line with the guidelines directing state aid towards environmental support and research and development.
in the next few weeks we must show that we are able to continue to lead in the fight against climate change and to build an energy policy for the future, because we owe it to our citizens, our economies and our partners around the world, as well as to future generations of europeans.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
this is a great success, but there are many new challenges ahead: climate, energy, defence, to name a few.
and only by working on the basis of our model of society and by consolidating our social market economy can we provide credible and sustainable answers for our generations.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am the last person to deny that energy and willpower are necessary in politics, and it is true that the french presidency has demonstrated a level of energy and willpower that has been good for europe.
because all the crises -- the financial crisis, the ecological crisis, world hunger -- are interconnected, and you can't solve one crisis without solving the others.
it's what created the financial crisis, it's what created the ecological crisis and it's what's fueling world hunger.
we need an ecological market economy and a social market economy, which means that we need to challenge the very foundations of our production and our way of life.
(applause) but it is, because, mr schulz, when you spoke earlier to your colleagues on the right... i am speaking to my colleagues on the right and left - social democrats and christian democrats - who agreed with the german industrial lobby to undercut the climate criteria!
if we invest in climate change, well, we'll do it the old-fashioned way.
that is why we must discuss a european recovery plan, you are right, but a european - ecological - recovery plan, what the greens call a green deal, and not just anything!
and finally, i would like to talk, anyway, about the climate package.
you have opened the pandora's box of vetoes from germany, italy and poland, instead of leaving things as they are, that is to say with the vote of the committees of parliament, with the position of the commission, with the council of environment ministers.
we had the opportunity to decide on a climate package by qualified majority co-decision.
so i say yes to your will for europe, yes to energy for europe, yes to the fact that we must move forward, or that europe must be independent, but at the same time we still have long, great differences on the "how", on european democracy and on the ecological content of the need for recovery.
first, many countries in the south, which are in principle partners of the european union, are on the verge of collapse: the food, ecological and energy crises have been joined by the financial crisis.
in france, this may also be the case if the recession further aggravates a particularly tense social climate due to massive job cuts, falling public spending, financially suffocating local authorities and plans to privatise public services.
but beyond that, it is the heart of the system that must be changed: money for profit, and profit for money, this vicious spiral that generates the devaluation of work, wage deflation, rationing of social spending and also the waste of the planet's resources and the marginalization of a huge part of the world's population.
addressing the root causes of the problem therefore means addressing the increasingly drastic criteria of financial return, which are totally incompatible with the indiscriminate promotion of human potential and with truly sustainable development.
we need a common action plan to serve our fellow citizens and to invest together in non-delocalised activities in the future - i am thinking, for example, of heavy infrastructure or a plan to meet environmental standards in the building sector.
but even more so, tomorrow we will need to think, define, carry and inspire a european development model which is ethical, humane, social and sustainable in every sense of the word.
on the fight against climate change, europe must set concrete goals and show the way to its global partners.
my first words will be to the french presidency of the union, held by nicolas sarkozy, president of the french republic, to congratulate him on the energy, heart and vision with which he is taking up his mandate.
i voted for the resolution following the commission communication on building a global alliance against climate change between the european union and the poorest and most vulnerable developing countries on the basis of the own-initiative report by my swedish colleague anders wijkman.
it is now established that the least developed countries (ldcs) and small island developing states (sids) will be hit the earliest and hardest by the effects of climate change.
climate change is therefore likely to further delay the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) in many of these countries and i welcome the global climate change alliance (gcca) proposed by the european commission between the eu and the poor developing countries most vulnerable to climate change, including ldcs and ldcs; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year.
yes, we must help developing countries, especially ldcs and small island states, to limit the effects of global warming.
today, africa is the "forgotten continent" of the climate negotiations...but this ambition must be translated into a financial commitment that is up to the challenge.
the long-term funding target should be at least eur 2 billion per year by 2010 and eur 5-10 billion per year by 2020. to finance this increase, the commission and the member states must devote at least 25% of the revenue from the community's emissions trading scheme.
we also call for financial support, technical assistance and technology transfer measures to facilitate the use of low greenhouse gas emission technologies.
we are in all respects, in energy, that is obvious, but also in research, in industry and in politics, in many ways, of course.
public procurement, to stimulate the replacement of old car fleets by new vehicles, is the economy at the service of the environment; the reduction of co2 emissions in the service of demand generation is the environment in the service of the economy, a perfect balance structuring this virtuous cycle in terms of budget, ecology and transparency.
to do this, it must be under two auspices: a true assessment of the cost of a vehicle throughout its life and transparency of local decisions so that a citizen's audit of the consequences for the benefit of the environment can take place.
in this spirit, we can only encourage the creation of an eco-label, a visible, legible and comprehensible witness to this ecological virtue.
the economic crisis must not be used as an excuse to abandon the efforts to change our practices to reduce the harmful effects on the environment.
commissioner, you should know that you have the full support of parliament when you leave here and that it is absolutely necessary to convince the college of commissioners that we must not waste any more time and that we must finally work on this counterfeit medicine.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
fundamental guidelines for growth for jobs and climate change have been preserved and there is even an increase in the total level of payments on these priorities, in any case.
just look at the news: financial crisis, environmental crisis.
it's a very ambitious, large-scale project where we're going to build one of the largest buildings in the world, fully energy-autonomous.
on environmental policy, we were one of the first institutions to be emas certified in 2008, and we can be very proud of that.
two days ago, we got the results of our carbon footprint study.
in addition to the relentless efforts of the eu facilitation team, it is important to ensure the broader participation of african diplomacy (including the african union) in the resolution of the eastern drc conflicts, especially in areas where a sustainable solution would be greatly facilitated by close cooperation between neighbouring countries, in particular the democratic republic of congo and rwanda.
no one can dispute - and many studies have shown - that there is a link between monetary policy and trade policy, and that in this respect the positive role of monetary stability is necessary for sustainable growth in international trade.
finally, on the overall development of aid and the way in which it is being dealt with, i would like to say that, through the modulation, the capping, of article 68, there are important things that have been done; they are going in the right direction, but on one condition: that our agriculture changes its overall production model towards sustainability.
the preservation of an exploitation model, whether individual or collective, which takes account of three objectives: economic, ecological and social, must be borne in mind.
i regret to say that i do not feel that this review of the cap's health, which was initiated before the peak of the hunger riots and the disastrous disruption of the markets, takes account of the situation of the peasantry in the south and draws all the consequences of the serious crises we are experiencing today: ecological, social, economic and financial.
so we need sheep subsidies, environmental premiums for the maintenance of grasslands and national reserves to deal with the ravages caused by animal diseases, including catarrhal fever.
the calculation of the progressive modulation made by the committee on agriculture seems to me to be correct and would allow us to strengthen the development of the territories, the countryside and to preserve biodiversity in a sustainable way.
the 'health check' on which we are going to vote today is a great opportunity to reflect on the way in which the common agricultural policy can be brought out of its present predicament and to anticipate the enormous work of re-founding this policy after 2013. the cap is in need of a new breath, and in particular of a new social and environmental breath.
i regret, however, and this is the only point i will make, that economic and social criteria are not accompanied by ecological considerations, because 'sustainability' must become the hallmark of our agricultural policy.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
it was to be reviewed at the next council of environment ministers on 4 and 5 november.
what is the health and environmental toxicity of gmos?
i think we really need to reduce our ecological footprint.
and this is a challenge to hungary as such, as a member of the european union for several years now, but it is also a challenge to the institutions of the european union in the sense that clearly, at this stage, we have not been able to develop this climate of trust, this climate of solidarity, this climate of cooperation to a sufficient degree for a country like hungary, in the difficult situation in which it is today, to consider that its first circle of solidarity, its first circle of cooperation, is the european union.
as the commissioner said, old cars are responsible for a large part of the pollution generated by cars.
the objectives on co2 emissions must be maintained, and the industry has devoted and is devoting considerable resources to them, but realism must lead to a moderation of the penalties for failure to meet the objectives.
secondly, to accelerate the technological change of companies towards the target of clean and intelligent vehicles, with the intention of reviving demand by facilitating the renewal of the fleet of old vehicles, which generate pollution, with the creation of a european ecological bonus.
for more than ten years, however, we have been alerting the automotive industry to the public health consequences of co2 emissions.
the commissioner, as you are well aware, has recently resisted here in this house against cars21 and has called for emissions to be kept below 130 grams.
it is essential that the concept of food security be affirmed in order to exclude any threat to the supply, in the context of balanced and sustainable management of the territory.
the commission's stated aim is to adapt more to the market by reducing direct aid for environmental and rural development policies.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- oral question to the council on european space policy: europe and space by pierre pribetich, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0111/2008 b6-0482/2008), and- oral question to the commission on european space policy: europe and space by pierre pribetich, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0112/2008 b6-0483/2008).
from science to defence, space covers a wide range of activities, ranging from environmental protection to sme development.
three priority areas could be summarised: security and defence, protection against environmental crises and the provision of new services for human activities.
yes, the observation of the planet must be sustained over time in order to study its slow dynamic variations, and in particular those induced by human action affecting the global climate, natural resources and biodiversity.
we are looking for projects to be fully synthetic that make europe more visible, become a global player and weigh in on the global challenges ahead, whether in the fight against climate change, whether in development, or also in strategic balances with our other partners.
i am grateful for the broad support for european space policy that this debate has shown, and i join this with the wish that this broad support will be effective in creating the financial basis for a permanent and sustainable european presence in space.
we are witnessing a huge waste of skills.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
a climate of insecurity will only serve to worsen the human rights situation and encourage violations of international humanitarian law.
the commission will develop a strategy, based on a combination of support for local mass media and cultural initiatives, to support sensitive cooperation initiatives and to disseminate to the public educational messages concerning respect for human rights and basic freedoms, the basic values of democracy, good governance, care for the environment and so forth.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
ladies and gentlemen, the european council will also be devoting a great deal of attention to the energy-climate package, which the french presidency has just made one of its major priorities.
global warming is a reality that the financial crisis, and now the economic crisis, have not changed.
but it must not give up on the fight against climate change.
the fact that we have managed to make progress on one of the texts in the climate and energy package is a very positive sign and it shows that there is a real will to make progress on this issue, and i am delighted about that.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
finally, mr minister, as regards the regulation on rating agencies, for which i am the rapporteur in this parliament, every effort will be made to put in place an effective and pragmatic mechanism which not only responds to the current situation but also allows these agencies to operate in a sustainable way.
how do you intend to deal directly with these actors on the ground, avoiding the waste and waste that we know well, linked to multiple intermediaries?
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr jean-louis borloo, commissioners piebalgs and dimas,ladies and gentlemen,this morning our debate is devoted to what has become the common name of the 'energy-climate' package, a political package around a key objective agreed by the leaders of the 27 countries in march 2007. there are many interconnections between these five texts, which is why they must be worked on as a coherent policy package.
we need to seize an historic opportunity to reverse the trend of climate change, we need to take the turn that will avoid going straight into the wall.
combating climate change and promoting eco-innovation will also help to revive the european economic and industrial machine in the medium term.
the epp-ed group is working hard on the energy and climate package, with the conviction that it is an unavoidable structural policy and, above all, with the feeling that it is a historic policy and therefore a huge responsibility towards future generations.
one of the five proposals, the regulation on co2 emissions from cars, was concluded this week.
and it is true that we can ask ourselves whether he is not doing better because here we continue to negotiate, we negotiate with polluters and we leave the negotiation of the climate-energy package in the hands of the member states.
across the atlantic, trade unions are supporting the shift to a low-carbon economy.
this should really inspire our industrialists, who are concerned about using the ecological, financial and economic crises to lay off workers, after years of profits not being redistributed to employees, after years of negotiating voluntary agreements on pollution, which have been so many failures.
mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate the french presidency on the energy it is putting into the implementation of this climate package.
but then, just as we were talking about the challenge of climate change, the financial crisis came to the negotiating table!
the economic crisis and the shrinking resources of raw materials must allow us to make a genuine and sustainable industrial revolution.
yes to renewable energy with an energy mix.
but not carbon leakage, not offshoring.
the european union which wants to be so exemplary in the fight against climate change, the european union which is so ambitious in the fight against climate change!
we are now returning to the state of play of the negotiations on the climate and energy package.
having voted on the joint resolution tabled by four political groups, including the epp-de, on measures to improve the environment for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the small business act (sba) for europe, i would like to commend the immense work done by my french colleague nicole fontaine and the french presidency with minister christine lagarde.
it is becoming urgent that member states confirm their intention to formally endorse the sba at the brussels european council in december 2008 in order to ensure its necessary visibility while making its provisions legally binding, in order to allow for a real positive effect on the sme environment.
we voted in favour of the resolution on improving the environment for smes under the small business act.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the committee on the environment had voted amendments which took greater account of the safety and health of children.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
to seek an integrated approach between coastal tourism and the community's cohesion, maritime, fisheries, environmental, transport and energy policies, in order to create synergies and reinforce the coherence of projects.
improve the quality of infrastructure by facilitating accessibility outside the peak season, while combating the effects of climate change by developing sustainable local public transport.
it reflects the political will to act to safeguard the rights and freedoms of everyone in the digital environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
a europe that finally agrees on the modalities of a coordinated response to the economic crisis and takes the lead in international negotiations on the fight against climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the outcome of the european council on the climate and energy package, a result which makes europe the pioneer in this field and shows that we can reach agreement at 27 with unanimity on such a complex issue in record time.
the package adopted by the council on friday and the trilogue on saturday reconciles the urgency of the climate challenge with the defence of our economic and social interests.
there is no winner or loser, there is agreement between the three institutions, and the european union has shown its ability to take the lead in this fight against climate change.
do they want a climate plan they can be proud of, a social model they can pass on to their children, or do they want demagogic proposals that will only waste their time?
of course, you are right that presidents should experiment, but mrs merkel, who was president here, this climate chancellor, once she became only chancellor of germany, she put herself under the thumb of german industry and not the european interest.
that is why, even on the climate package, i have my doubts about the regulations at first reading.
on the climate package, we were strong, we were leading, and it's true that even if it was insufficient as we were told at the time, the 3x20s, it was just.
this is where we landed after the climate package.
you and mr barroso are telling us that it is 1.5% of gdp, but everyone knows that mr obama's plan is to give 3 to 4% of gdp to environmental and economic recovery.
it is not enough, as i said, to have an ecological recovery plan because we are not putting enough into it.
about the energy-climate package, first of all.
is there a risk that this compromise will lead to the greatest possible number of european industrialists being exempted from any ecological constraints?
is there a risk that europe will reduce only a small part of its own emissions by simply contributing to reductions outside europe through the compensation mechanism?
the energy-climate package, for example, has been surrounded by so many derogations that it is practically devoid of substance, crisis forces.
regional crisis, financial, economic, social, climate, the world's agenda has shaken the french presidency.
we need big projects, innovation, research, infrastructure, adaptation to the sustainable.
finally, under your presidency, we have found a compromise on the climate crisis.
i regret that it is leaving aside for the moment the crucial question of aid to developing countries which are continuing to suffer the consequences of a climate change for which they are not responsible.
on the energy-climate package, europe is taking a first step and in this respect, this first step is huge.
it now has the means to assume its environmental responsibility without sacrificing its economy.
it can now take the lead in this area and lead other continents on the path to sustainable development.
whether it is euro-mediterranean relations, the war in the caucasus, efforts to deal with the global financial and economic crises or major issues such as regulation (energy/climate package) aimed at having a carbon-free economy of the 21st century, immigration, agriculture, etc.
they are used to support research, innovation, and to help our businesses and our economy make the transition from a sustainable industrial revolution as painless as possible.
they also make it possible to prepare better for the economic crisis without jeopardising the 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union, under the impetus of the french presidency, has just redesigned its economic and energy future by reaffirming its international leadership in the fight against climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, environmental protection and competitiveness cannot be separated.
they become additional production costs, brakes to expansion, accelerators of carbon leakage, imports that destroy our jobs.
there is also a lack of a bold policy of allocating carbon rights to the forest and the wood sector.
this would have enhanced the value of forests in developing countries, reduced co2 emissions and promoted the most basic of carbon sinks.
these two common sense remarks make this well-intentioned report a great waste of energy.
madam president, we have reached agreement on the climate package and we are all relieved.
an agreement was a necessary condition for considering a post-kyoto, but not sufficient to say that today we are able to meet the challenge of climate change.
secondly, by accepting that 50% of the reduction efforts can be offset by projects in developing countries, the european union's responsibility for climate change is greatly reduced.
thirdly, the low level of revenue and the lack of firm commitments to invest in the fight against climate change, whether within the european union or in developing countries.
i doubt that such provisions, and more broadly those contained in the energy-climate package, will encourage the european economy to make the necessary change and that they will set the european union on the path towards a low-carbon society.
if the ccs technique becomes commercially viable, it could be offered to third countries as well, such as china, india, etc., and this technology should also enable the european union to play a leading role at the global level in the diverse range of clean, efficient and low-carbon energy technologies.
mr president, while i support the idea that the european union should encourage the development of demonstration plants for the capture and sequestration of co2, i have my doubts about the large-scale development of these technologies to combat climate change.
my fears are reinforced by my disappointing record on the energy-climate package.
we have confirmed the ambitious targets to show the world that europe is committed to an ambitious process of combating climate change.
the tools that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i have a feeling that the targets will not be met by 2020: reductions in vehicle emissions, exemptions for energy producers in particular.
carbon sequestration, the development of new clean technologies?
fortunately, there is still the involvement of european companies and citizens who are certainly more prepared than the policies governing them to commit to energy savings, the use of green energy, the conversion to new modes of transport.
in rejecting this quote from president mitterrand, i wanted to emphasize that this climate change package constitutes an opportunity, a real chance for the development of our territory.
but this industrial situation requires several ingredients: a financial capacity of the union to invest, to develop a real european adjustment fund for a decarbonised economy, especially in the automotive research sector, and to involve employees in the sectors concerned through the creation of an advisory committee on climate change to give meaning to the social dialogue.
the crises and the requirements of the fight against climate change make it urgent to generate new industrial policies based on this capacity for anticipation, for mastering social dialogue and for developing employment.
we must bear this in mind, it is not a question of legal disquisition here, we cannot waste time.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i will repeat this year again the inadequacy of this budget, the inadequacy of the multiannual financial framework: lack of funds for economic recovery policies, research, lifelong learning, networks, support for smes and small businesses; a policy of territorial solidarity and especially the cohesion funds, which are difficult to implement and therefore leave unused payment appropriations in the billions of euros; too much money for market agriculture support and leaving unused margins due to legal bases prohibiting new commitments; difficulties in using the money spent on rural development and the environment; the council's public commitments and the citizenship and information policies which are on the verge of poverty and do not allow real communication with the citizens of the union.
we were hoping that, relying on the financial perspective, we could continue the implementation of traditional policies and find, within the margins available, enough money to meet this different urgency, to which must be added the implementation of the fight against climate change.
the first is the fight against climate change, and the council's conclusions on this subject are modest but they have the merit of being there; the commission will be able to make a contribution to the budget if it is able to do so.
i particularly welcome, in budgetary terms, the efforts made to combat global warming, support for smes, combat energy dependence, and the measures taken to make europe more humane, more humanistic, better equipped to deal with the fundamental challenges of migration policies.
we needed to have an energy budget plan to change the economic climate.
we have had the opportunity to say here on several occasions that the simple objective of reducing the european union's dependence on imports of gas or hydrocarbons could in itself justify the promotion of renewable energies.
the compromise presented today, which is part of the 'energy-climate package', is like all compromises: neither totally bad nor totally satisfactory.
it is not entirely satisfactory, in particular, for biofuels, second generation or not: insufficient guarantees as regards competition with food production, vague as regards possible changes in the use of land, silence on the actual carbon balance of these energy sources... it is not entirely convincing on the "guarantee of origin" supposed to identify green electricity, especially when we know the reality of what the electricity supply is, the dubious advertising on the subject and the significant additional cost to consumers.
the european union's only firm commitment is to reduce its emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990. this is a drop of about 12% compared to today.
taking into account that two thirds of this reduction can be achieved through carbon offsetting mechanisms - i.e.
the purchase of carbon credits on the international market - the eu has committed to achieving only a 4% reduction on its territory.
another lack of compromise is the lack of a firm commitment to support developing countries in their efforts to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu has made a purely voluntary commitment to use half of the revenues from the auctioning of polluting rights for climate.
i regret that the target for reducing co2 emissions from cars is below the standards that our parliament wanted.
the specific objective of reducing emissions by manufacturer will also penalise those who are already the most virtuous.
i abstained on the report on co2 from passenger cars because i think it does not take sufficient account of the impact of the car fleet on climate change.
the more ambitious targets adopted by the european parliament's committee on the environment should have been maintained.
the energy and climate package we are voting on today is meant to be symbolic of an energy, economic and technological transition.
and it is: the various measures proposed will profoundly change the energy mix of the member states, lead to a common or even a single energy policy, entail enormous financial costs, weigh on the competitiveness of our industries and thus on employment in europe, increase energy prices for individuals and businesses, have a significant impact on national budgets... it is true that many derogations have been provided for to avoid relocations.
but this is not enough: in the current context of a widespread crisis which looks likely to be long-lasting, a general safeguard clause is needed to ensure that the interests of the european economy and workers will at least provisionally take precedence over environmental objectives as a matter of necessity.
because then, the economic suicide of europe, which emits only 15% of the world's "artificial" greenhouse gases, would be useless.
i voted in favour of the four directives in the energy-climate package because it was important that the eu adopted these texts before 2009 and the international negotiations.
it is a yes :- because the 3x20 targets (20% ghg reduction, 20% reduction in energy consumed, 20% renewable energy) and the transition to a 30% ghg reduction in the event of a more ambitious international agreement are confirmed; - critical because the texts proposed by the council are lagging behind the commission's proposals and risk not reaching the announced targets - staggered over time, large number of derogations, possibility of financing gas reductions outside the eu, which delays the necessary decarbonisation of our industries, economies and development modes;- vigilance because if the targets are not met along the way, the ep will have to impose new policies;- first step.
i always thought that the ets would not transform our industry, our activities to reduce their ecological footprints.
it is necessary to provide for substantial research and innovation funding, customs standards and tariffs to combat environmental dumping, and industrial policies and european funds to accompany the changes.
this report - as i was going to say every year - is both a good document because it is a very useful report on the activities of the council as a working document, but at the same time it does not contain all the elements of critical analysis, impact studies and strategies that the council is taking, adopting to fully integrate human rights in the framework of, for example, our energy policies, our trade policies or our security policies.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
such illegal practices may also endanger the safety and health of consumers or cause serious damage to the environment.