this report is all about giving a crucial industry a stable framework within which to meet the societal demands that we are placing on it – whether they concern environment or safety.
they are the ones who behave idiosyncratically in their national regulations and undermine the achievement of that stable framework, that internal market, that achievement of the environmental and safety goals that we want to achieve, those targets of reducing road deaths – where we have very ambitious targets and where they can make big investments in infrastructure and driver training.
one of the things that we ask from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is for this parliament to take an initiative in getting other national parliamentarians together in this house to talk in the framework of cars 21 about how they, as national and local politicians, are going to contribute to these overall goals of achieving a competitive car industry with the highest possible technology and preserving and developing jobs and employment, while achieving the goals that we all want to meet in terms of science, safety and environmental improvements.
– mr president, the car industry should have reduced its emissions by a great deal more than it has, but we are where we are and it takes time to achieve change economically, so i welcome the rapporteur’s proposal to set a target of 125 g by 2015, to bring it in line with the vote of this parliament last october.
on the contrary, if we are to combat climate change and reduce the threat that now hangs over the survival of billions of people in the poorest parts of this planet, we have to get them to accept responsibility for their actions.
i was wrong in november when i claimed here that michael o’leary, the boss of ryanair, had said that he did not give a toss for the environment so long as he could stuff his pockets and those of his airline full of gold.
but if we are to tackle the problem of climate change, we need people like mr o’leary and his counterparts in the car industry on side, working with us, pushing the boundaries of innovation and leading from the front.
of course, there must be complementarity, but we must not have duplication because, again, that would waste the resources.
question no 32 by chris davies (h-0984/07) subject: carbon dioxide emissions what targets has the commission set itself for reducing co2 emissions generated by its activities, buildings and transport needs?
does the commissioner accept that his arguments in favour of the ‘big picture changes’ that must be made by member states if we are to tackle climate change could be undermined if the commission is not seen to be acting on the fine detail – on its own implementation of these improvements?
− while this report has a number of good ideas on making airport charges more transparent and bringing environmental considerations into the calculation for the first time, we must, as ever, be careful not to throw the baby out with the bath water.
− while i do not disagree that it may be desirable to reduce co2 emissions in an overall environmental context, it is not for the undemocratic eu to decide these issues.
i strongly believe that the co2 target of 120g/km by 2012 is one that must be met and is essential in fighting climate change.
though i acknowledge that member states need to engage in the funding of research and development for the automobile sector in this area, i feel that the industry itself should also contribute and demonstrate a further commitment to reducing the effects of climate change.
− i will be voting in favour of the chatzimarkakis report, even though i believe that the car industry has to do more to reduce emissions from the vehicles it produces.
it is very easy on the one hand to pick out the motor car as the chief sinner in all things environmental, and certainly the motor car that we have at the moment leaves a lot to be desired in this area.
we rely on you, president-in-office, to push forward the single market in energy, in telecoms, in health-care services.
in other areas, you will have to flex your muscles a great deal more – particularly with your presidential counterparts who have a vested interest in promoting nuclear energy as the panacea of climate change.
solidarity and burden-sharing are the key to success in cutting emissions and meeting renewable energy targets.
in 2008, our union must show, as president barroso said, that it can turn fine words about combating climate change into action.
i look forward to hearing in the committee on industry, research and energy, where i am also the ppe-de group spokesman, how the presidency intends to take matters forward.
i also welcome the commitment to pursue vigorously the energy and climate change agenda.
the eu has established tough carbon emissions targets and it is now incumbent upon member states to follow through with real action, and not just words, to ensure burden sharing does not just end up as load shedding.
i read with concern in the press this week that some member states are trying to undermine the eu agreement of last year on climate change, and we will pay particular attention to see that the british government lives up to the commitments it has entered into.
one is on our environment, because alongside human rights and our lisbon agenda goes a clean environment, a healthy environment and, indeed, a healthy people.
that environment needs to move on from bali, which was a great talking shop.
we need real action, realistic action, and that must start next week with our climate change package.
look at the mess it has made – the ecological destruction, the destruction of surpluses, the poverty inflicted on africa.
most of us accept that there is a case for multi-state initiatives to deal with plainly cross-border issues; i can accept that argument – or at least an argument for a coordinated european strategy on, let us say, pollution or tariff reduction, perhaps elements of aviation and so on.
the ability to more accurately estimate yields and make related information more freely available will allow for the improvement of a policy that so far lacks an image of fairness, transparency and environmental sensitivity.
the report is strong on the need for a healthy environment and the right to play.
− i am the strongest defender of the need to give children a good upbringing in a strong, loving and secure family environment, to protect children from harm and abuse, to give them moral guidance and a first class education, and the best of opportunity in their lives.
it means making a safer environment for the media.
the conservation of biodiversity is high on the list of priority areas of our presidency.
the council has already stressed in the past the need for sustained and intensified efforts at all levels to achieve the objective of a significant slowdown in biodiversity loss by 2010, and at the same time to achieve the objective set by the eu at the gothenburg european council and mentioned by mr doyle in his question.
in addition, member states shall put in place concrete measures to implement the action plan to reduce biodiversity loss by 2010 and beyond, which provides for action on biodiversity and climate change both at european union and global level.
in achieving the objective of slowing the decline in biodiversity by 2010, the presidency will stress the need for synergies between policies and activities in the field of climate change and biodiversity, in particular with regard to biodiversity in freshwater and marine environments as well as forest biodiversity.
these objectives are set out in a declaration entitled 'counting to 2010' together with the other biodiversity conservation objectives.
one will be between experts in forestry, climate change and biodiversity, and the other between experts in international maritime policy, fisheries and biodiversity.
at the same time, the informal meeting of environment ministers in slovenia in april will present forest biodiversity as a challenge and an opportunity to develop climate change mitigation and adaptation measures at european level.
the slovenian presidency will also seek to improve cooperation and implementation of relevant provisions from the various environmental agreements at national and regional levels.
the european commission has added to its communication 'halting biodiversity loss by 2010 and beyond' a commitment to involve the private sector in biodiversity partnerships.
in this context, a high-level conference on the economy and biodiversity was recently held in lisbon in november 2007. the outcome of this conference, including the lisbon communication on the economy and biodiversity, will be discussed at the 9th conference of the states parties to the convention, to be held in germany under the slovenian presidency, and at the 5th world congress of the international union for the conservation of nature and natural resources, to be held in barcelona under the french presidency.
i certainly agree that we need to have the best possible indicators to assess the state of biodiversity and the presidency will take note of your remark that there is a need to reflect and will consider the need to improve these indicators.
you are right that in a field such as biodiversity, it is difficult to imagine that in such a short time, especially after a period that seems not to have been the best exploited, that in such a short time that remains, the objectives set could be achieved, namely the slowing down of the decline in biodiversity.
slovenia is one of the countries for which biodiversity is of great importance, partly because we still have a fairly high level of biodiversity, which is known, if for no other reason, also because of our bears, which we export to a good part of europe.
it is clear that the production of biofuels, if left unchecked and unchecked, can certainly have negative consequences for the environment, for biodiversity, for food prices, if you will, and so on.
in other words, we should encourage the production and use of biofuels that reduce, rather than increase, the environmental burden.
they were just flexing their muscles, and once russia has an even bigger share of western energy supplies, who is to say they will not do this again – to all of us?
europe must become more self-sufficient in energy – not by useless wind power, nor by biofuels.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
in the actual text it says to replace the words ‘in the baku-tbilisi-erzurum gas pipeline’ with the words ‘in the trans-caspian energy corridor projects’.
but by negotiation at the beginning of the voting session, i have already agreed this should be an addition rather than a replacement, so can we include the words ‘in the trans-caspian energy corridor projects’.
so this is totally unnecessary, an utter waste of public money.
climate change is the greatest challenge facing life on our planet, the biggest problem facing our governments, and a gnawing worry for our citizens.
california’s scientists warned us 30 years ago about climate change.
madam president, nowadays, when the subject of climate change crops up, it is usually described as ‘global warming’.
the only solution being put forward is to cut greenhouse gas emissions – that is, carbon dioxide – dramatically, because it is claimed that a 30% reduction will reduce the average temperature of the earth by 2° by 2020. such an assertion is quite amazing when no reference to the effect the sun will have had over that period is taken into account, but, for the sake of this exercise, let us suppose that the so-called ‘taxpayer-funded experts’ are right.
climate change is precisely that: climate changes all the time.
so, what if earth’s climate decides to cool down instead of warm up?
will it then be suggested that we must produce much more carbon dioxide to try and offset the cooling?
they are so committed to their present ‘global warming’ prediction, that that would not be an option, but, sadly, it looks as if that is what is happening.
global warming has stopped.
so, to sum up, if global warming has been just a temporary blip, and we are now heading relentlessly for the next ice age, any reductions in co2 emissions will have precisely the opposite asserted effect to that which is intended.
madam president, no one ever said that meeting the challenge of global warming would be easy, but i am glad that the european union here is taking the lead in trying to turn aspirations into practical policies.
i hear the comments of the energy commissioner, but the idea that we could risk tropical forest destruction and force up world food prices in order to featherbed our car manufacturers is, frankly, sickening, and we must be very cautious indeed about the sustainability criteria.
we promote schemes that stimulate co2 emissions and it seems to me that we have to run faster just to catch up with ourselves.
madam president, i welcome this package in principle, but we must recognise that renewables and efficiency gains are a domestic eu asset, which yields benefits for us, both as a sustainable low-carbon economy and for security of supply.
we must also recognise that renewables are not the free lunch that some people think: they do have costs attached, which include financial, environmental and inflexibility factors.
i welcome the approach of market mechanisms, like the emissions trading system, but i hope we can improve the methodology and make it work better to achieve our aims.
finally, let me make the suggestion that we should resist the temptation to be technology-specific, we should resist being obsessive about renewables as the solution, when it is the objective of drastic emissions reduction that matters most and, therefore, we must use the full range of means available and not rule out any option.
not one can be used to generate nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
the vote will take place tomorrow, 31.1.2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the outcome of the bali climate change conference.
we also have to be aware that climate change is going to take place anyway, whatever the outcome of these negotiations is.
i have high hopes of emissions trading.
and carbon capture and storage (ccs): i really think we could be more ambitious in our targets.
but, also on the european summit, i would say: renewable energy and energy saving – i think there is huge opportunity for governments to slip there, not to deliver on the goods, to find it politically difficult to bring about the institutional changes necessary, and i think the commission needs to put as much pressure as possible to name and shame, to find new mechanisms, to ensure that member states deliver on the goals they have now agreed.
madam president, i understand that, on the day the bali climate conference commenced, there were so many private jets that bali’s airport ran out of parking space.
indeed, the united states, which we vilify for not ratifying kyoto, is actually doing better than the eu in terms of emissions trend.
yet we have agreed little more at bali than to keep talking in our attempts to replace one failed climate treaty with another.
i would like to see us worry less about climate change and more about energy security.
let us hear less about wind farms and auto emissions and more about investment in nuclear generating capacity and in waste-to-energy incinerators.
copd is associated with many other health problems, and smoking is not the only risk factor: environmental tobacco smoke and pollution are also linked to copd.
energy efficiency is vital for cutting carbon emissions, enhancing security of supply and boosting economic efficiency.
in october 2006 the commission produced an action plan for energy efficiency, proposing a 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020 and setting out 10 priority areas for action.
these ranged from appliances to buildings and transport and included financial incentives, energy efficiency awareness and much more.
eu heads of state endorsed the commission’s action plan last march and energy efficiency made the headlines because chancellor merkel declared that inefficient incandescent light bulbs should be banned.
i hope that our report will send out a strong signal about what meps want to see happen on energy efficiency.
firstly, the proposal to revise the energy performance of buildings directive: the commission proposes minimum energy performance requirements for buildings and for building components, which is good.
buildings are key to cutting energy demand.
over 40% of the energy we use is consumed in buildings and 75% of the buildings standing today will still be here in 2050, so we need to tackle energy efficiency in existing buildings as well as in new stock.
but we should not just be lowering the 1 000 m2 threshold in the energy performance of buildings directive – we should be getting rid of it altogether and applying the directive to all buildings requiring heating and cooling, regardless of size.
secondly, on appliances, parliament’s report welcomes the proposal to put in place minimum energy performance requirements coupled with a dynamic system of energy labelling, to keep up with advances in technology.
but our report calls on the commission to come forward with a one-watt performance requirement for standby, and to carry out an analysis of the potential energy savings to be made from eliminating standby altogether.
our report also urges the commission to set a timetable for taking completely off the market some very energy-inefficient items of equipment, such as patio heaters.
thirdly, the report calls for more help for small businesses, which are particularly affected by rising fuel prices and in need of energy efficiency.
the second big message is that there has been a failure by both the commission and national governments to implement existing energy efficiency legislation.
six months after the 30 june deadline, a third of member states have still not submitted their national energy efficiency action plans.
the commission has not put in place all the 20 extra staff it said were necessary to deliver energy efficiency commitments and, for that reason, the timetable on the action plan has slipped.
first, i think it was indeed a shame that there was not more attention paid to the commission’s assessment of the energy efficiency action plans that came out with the energy package last week because it was a very worryingly downbeat assessment.
they are not looking ahead to the 20% target and, to quote the commission, there exists a ‘considerable gap’ in certain member states ‘between the political commitment to energy efficiency … and the measures adopted’.
secondly, the fact that we now have the renewables directive and the targets therein means that energy efficiency has never been more important.
if we are going to reach the 20% binding target across the eu, we have to keep energy demand under control.
we can only do 20% if the 100% of the total amount of energy use is something that is reduced rather than being allowed to increase.
so i hope this report does mark a new beginning and that it marks the start of a closing of the gap between political rhetoric on energy efficiency and its actual implementation.
– mr president, i congratulate ms hall on this report, which contains a number of sold, sensible, achievable suggestions to encourage energy efficiency.
amidst the current fuss on generation and security of supply we risk losing sight of the fact that changes in building and equipment standards, as well as how we use energy, will in themselves allow a great deal of energy capacity.
we all share the view that discarding is, to say the least, an unnecessary waste of good natural and economic resources that should be stopped.
– madam president, discards are an appalling waste.
it highlights practical aspects including the cost of dealing with discards and what to do with landed discards, the costs of introducing more selective gear, the implications for the total allowable catches and quota regime if discarding is banned, and the need to give fishermen incentives to fish in a more sustainable way.
an amnesty on discards is not the solution as it may create a market in discards instead of encouraging fishermen to fish in a sustainable way.
i also think that, at the end of the day, if we can protect fisheries’ stocks, then actually it is better for fishermen in the long run, because we do have to have sustainable fisheries.
one job i had was advising companies on the newly liberalised industries – the telecoms industry, the postal industry (to a limited extent) and the energy industry.
but what i would like to say is that, whatever one feels about climate change, i think we can all be in favour of the need for energy efficiency.
that is a sign of success, but they should be aware of energy efficiency.
what worries me is that it is a completely disproportionate measure to ban the use of these patio heaters, which contribute less than 0.1% to co2 emissions.
we all need better energy efficiency, but let us have solutions that are workable.
mr president, like everyone in this house i know the statistics that are commonly available, that prove that we could save ourselves a ton of energy and a ton of problems in the future if we were more efficient about the way we use energy.
under paragraph 22, it calls for getting rid of fixed-cost systems by which people buy their energy, be it electricity or gas.
i signed up to it because it is easy to budget for my energy bills, and millions of people – generally poor people – in the united kingdom do exactly the same thing.
we talk about energy efficiency and energy saving, yet we still have trade difficulties with china – a massive tax on imports of energy-efficient light bulbs from that country.
mr president, i rise on this report because i absolutely despise the common fisheries policy and the ecological disaster that it has caused for my country and the waters around it.
the lack of agreement among all negotiating parties on concrete objectives and figures for the reduction of co2 emissions is regrettable.
− british conservatives support the broad thrust of this own-initiative report – who could be against energy efficiency?
energy efficiency marking is good for enabling consumers to make a choice but to start proscribing particular products merely because they use energy in a way that some do not approve seems excessive.
− i support the general principle of this report as an action plan for energy efficiency.
however paragraph 16 which ‘urges the commission to establish timetables for the withdrawal from the market of all the least energy-efficient items of equipment, appliances and other energy-using products, such as patio heaters’, would have been better without singling out one particular piece of equipment for a ‘ban’, since it is only one among many that raise concerns over energy wastage and it is one that many people enjoy using, not least in an urban social context like my own london constituency.
but i believe that the best course is to set minimum standards for energy efficiency of appliances, inform people of energy consumption and encourage them to consider their overall carbon footprint and choose their appliances, use of transport, social behaviour etc.
− the action plan delivers the most cost-effective tools to fight against climate change.
indeed, i welcome the plan and feel that the target of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 is feasible both technically and economically.
i will be voting in favour of this report because we seriously have to address the waste that goes on, with perfectly good fish being thrown back into the sea because of the workings of the complicated quota system.
we must preserve our stocks and one way to do this is to eradicate or at least minimise the waste of unwanted by-catches and discards.
as many of us were earlier discussing with dick marty on the subject of terrorist blacklists and asset freezing, the law needs to be both just and effective if it is to remain credible and sustainable and have public support.
i hope the commission will soon find the political environment suitable for it to bring back proposals for reforming our trade defence instruments.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
− madam president, i was rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy’s opinions on two of the three reports in this package.
– mr president, when parliament first convened this series of debates on the future of europe, few could foresee a treaty in force by 2009. europe was sinking, and to paraphrase mr reinfeldt’s countryman, august strindberg, ‘there was something unnatural in it, for nature demands progress, evolution, and every backward step means wasted energy.’ well, since then, the european union has found the collective energy to set europe back on the path to progress.
they want more: more joint action on terrorism, more joint action on energy and the environment, on defence and foreign affairs, on migration, on research and development.
i want to make very clear that british conservative meps will vote against that report because we fundamentally disagree with the treaty, with the process by which it was agreed and with the fact that it is simply a carbon copy of the constitution rejected by two of the union’s founding member states in national referendums.
to be fit for the 21st century, the eu needs to focus on issues like the environment, economic competitiveness and global poverty, in order to demonstrate it is worthy of public support.
scotland has much to contribute to the european union and its development: a constructive attitude and a wealth of energy resources to name but two.
but i suppose that would highlight the fundamental weakness of economic and monetary union, which is that a single currency is not a sustainable long-term arrangement for a group of widely differing economies with independent governments.
conservatives support a europe of independent states working closely together to meet the challenges of globalisation, global poverty and global warming, as has already been stated by others.
it enables the union’s common foreign and security policy to develop to ensure that europe’s economic and industrial power is reflected in global politics, and in particular will allow the eu to play a key role in tackling global warming.
conservatives support a europe of independent states working together to meet the challenges of globalisation, global poverty and global warming – as our priorities – in a cooperative fashion, and we have been clear and consistent in our approach, in full knowledge of the likely effect of the treaty on our aims and ambitions for europe.
− i voted for this report, not because i consider that the lisbon treaty amendments offer the way to a european union which is firmly based on a commitment to sustainable development, peace and human rights rather than the market and competition, but because i consider it does have factors which are more positive than our current treaty arrangements.
worse, it squanders a perfect opportunity to put sustainability and climate security genuinely at the heart of the union, and fails to bring the eu institutions closer to european citizens.
in particular, we have highlighted the importance of a fully functioning single market in goods and services, creating a better business environment (especially for smes), stimulating innovation and introducing labour market reforms that focus on skills, flexibility and encouragement to create new jobs.
− my group tabled a number of amendments on important issues such as climate change, fairer wealth distribution and fair pay, which i voted for.
− i welcome the report on the broad economic policy guidelines for 2008-2010. in the current economic climate, we must give the eu the necessary tools to help us weather the storm.
climate change must also feature highly in the formation of europe’s economic priorities if we are to meet the ambitious targets that we have set ourselves.
as the report clearly outlines, central asia requires active eu energy cooperation in a bid to find mutually beneficial solutions to the current state of play in the energy market.
i would like to make one more point, particularly in relation to environmental legislation, where many of the conflicts arise: many of the very worthy aims of individual pieces of legislation do conflict, and we must face up to that in preparing them.
we were promised a review of that in the energy package, so if our commissioner could give us some light on that process, which is ongoing, i would be very grateful.
if even tony blair cannot get israel to allow the import of equipment to stop 40 000 litres of untreated human waste poisoning the water supply, it is time for europe to act.
these forces are composed, equipped and trained to fulfil their mission adequately in a very difficult environment.
yet, because of climate change, there is no part of the planet where research is more vital.
global warming in africa threatens to wipe out the modest progress that has been made towards the millennium development goals.
but, if only the science and technology base was stronger, climate change could also be an opportunity for africa.
this motion for a resolution rightly makes specific mention of solar energy.
it is the renewable energy which africa has in abundance.
last friday, i was at the new and renewable energy centre in blyth in northumberland, where innovative research is going on to reduce the cost of solar electricity by focusing the sun’s rays on very small silicon cells.
there is an ecological disaster under way, threatening the coastlines of the region, as the beit lahia plant sewage plant is not operating properly and repairs cannot be carried out, as supplies are blocked.
in improving cooperation between urban and rural areas and implementing efficient strategies that aim at sustainable spatial development we can successfully achieve this.
the special climate of yorkshire and the special techniques developed by generations of growers have ensured the special quality of this rhubarb, which is grown when the roots are transferred to dark sheds and the darkness means that the stalks grow up seeking light and produce a very special quality which many top chefs and the finest restaurants recognise as being an exceptional delicacy.
in his introductory remarks, mr albertini said that this gives us a chance to outline our transport policy, bearing in mind the environment and fuel efficiency, something about which this parliament has consistently felt very strongly and expressed its views.
recital b, for example, talks about energy consumption and highlights ‘road transport, accounting as it does for 83% [...] of energy’.
that does not fit in with a package that is arguing for sustainable transport over forms that are not friendly to the environment.
but i do not dispute the fact that more efficient cars are a good idea and that working from home cuts down pollution.
what were meps saying about sustainable transport, please?
we cannot attribute all bad weather to climate change, but we do know that the number of extreme weather events is increasing.
we have seen severe floods, and also the fires in greece and southern europe last summer, and no amount of solidarity funds can actually meet the damage and the cost which we are seeing as a result of these climate-change events.
we are beginning our work as meps on the new package of climate change legislation.
i very much hope this house will adopt a tough stance and implement and agree good legislation which really does tackle climate change so that we do not have to come back here and ask the commission for money to tackle these kinds of events.
as climate change does bite, we may all be in the situation of representing those who are victims of such natural disasters and may have, therefore, to lay claim to european solidarity.
then, briefly with regard to external relations, can we have some read across with regard to external relations, energy and climate change – all of those issues?
sustainable europe?
if anybody wants to take any serious look at global science and global warming and climate change, they will see that, actually, most informed, not politically-biased, scientists regard it as fact that we will actually have a colder planet by 2050, not a warmer one.
one is that we will work with it on the package on climate change to get an effective and workable package in place as quickly as we can.
the commission’s assessment for guinea-bissau found that it helped the viability of the community’s trawler and tuna industries in the atlantic ocean, and offered community vessels and industries that depend upon them a stable legal environment and medium-term visibility, but actually just had, it says, ‘a major impact’ on guinea-bissau’s budgetary and political stability.
mr president, nothing would bring me more joy than to speak on sustainable european transport.
− british conservative meps voted in favour of mr albertini’s own-initiative report on sustainable european transport on the basis that it provides a clear policy framework that will increase efficiency and tackle transport’s burgeoning impact on climate change.
− i welcome the recommendations contained within gabriele albertini’s report on sustainable european transport policy.
indeed, the sustainability of such transport is also a very pressing issue.
in encouraging technological innovation and market-based instruments, such as the emissions trading scheme or tax incentives, particularly in large cities and environmentally sensitive areas, there is an opportunity to ensure that means of transport and infrastructure are used efficiently.
but we have also got to understand that, coming into the next 12 months, the cost of cereals, the cost of fertiliser, the high cost of energy, the forage cost this summer, is going to mean that lots of the extra money that has gone to the dairy sector will in actual fact be absorbed in these extra costs.
in paragraphs 37 and 38 we explicitly recognise that set-aside is an anachronism and should be fully swept away, and where there are spin-off environmental benefits, they be properly dealt with under pillar 2. in paragraphs 86 to 91 we recognise the importance of niche products for europe’s agriculture internationally.
food security is impossible without guaranteed economic sustainability for producers.
such is the panic caused by climate change that politicians and planners are in danger of creating a bigger global problem than they set out to resolve.
deforestation now accounts for around 18% of the world’s total greenhouse gas emissions and highlights the insanity of current policies.
greed, instead of care for the environment, has become the defining feature of our strategy for tackling climate change, and the race to biofuels is potentially threatening the lives of millions of people, as the global population soars from its present six billion to an estimated nine billion by 2050. an extra six million people are born every month.
but the reality is that an area the size of ukraine is being taken out of agricultural food production every year due to drought and as a direct consequence of climate change.
question no 34 by avril doyle (h-0090/08) subject: carbon tariffs on imports?
on 23 january 2008 the european commission put forward a far-reaching package of proposals com(2008)0016 that will deliver on the european union's ambitious commitments to fight climate change and promote renewable energy up to 2020 and beyond.
central to the strategy is a strengthening and expansion of the emissions trading system (eu ets), the eu's key tool for cutting emissions cost-effectively.
emissions from the sectors covered by the system will be cut by 21% by 2020 compared with levels in 2005. a single eu-wide cap on ets emissions will be set, and free allocation of emission allowances will be progressively replaced by auctioning of allowances by 2020. under any international agreement, which would ensure that competitors in other parts of the world bear a comparable cost, the risk of carbon leakage could well be negligible.
in light of the above, can the commission comment as to why carbon tariffs on imports into the eu were excluded from the eu ets?
secondly, can the commission further indicate the degree of support in the college of commissioners on the issue of carbon tariffs on products from countries that have no co2 reduction legislation in place?
– madam president, let us be clear: this biomass thing is driven by the alleged global warming effect of man-derived carbon dioxide emissions.
forget carbon footprints.
fortunately, we now have the manhattan declaration, released by 500 scientists last week, which says there is no convincing evidence that co2 from modern industry is causing climate change.
it reminds us that the global climate has always changed and always will.
so what is causing the current minimal degree of global warming?
it ticks the boxes of helping livestock farmers tap into an alternative income stream and, at the same time, makes a worthwhile contribution to the environment by solving problems allied to the disposal of agricultural waste.
therein is a key advantage for biogas: using waste rather than crops, it does not discourage essential feedstuff production or food production itself.
so there is much that can and should be done to promote biogas and, at the same time, make agriculture more sustainable.
in agriculture in particular a lot of waste is produced that could be made very effectively into biogas.
waste food and waste vegetables could also be mixed with it to create electricity.
one thing i would say to mr tabajdi is that we do not need a directive specifically for bio-energy: it can be encompassed in a renewable energy directive.
they also need a lot of storage on their farms for waste.
slurry could be contained on the farm and could be changed into biogas, and the waste from that could then be spread on the land.
finally, i should like to reply to mr clark – though i think he has left – who asked whether or not there is global warming.
i was talking to an eminent israeli scientist who said that there could be global warming or there need not be, but can we wait for 20 years to know whether we were right or not?
energy security, rising energy costs and climate change are perhaps the greatest challenges facing europe in the 21st century.
one thing is clear: europe must become more self-reliant in its energy needs and ensure the security of its energy supply.
to do this will mean more diversification into alternative energy sources and a heavier reliance on new technologies and renewables.
in my own constituency it is estimated that we import a staggering 96% of our energy.
while i am under no illusions that biofuels and biomass energy are the only answer to europe’s growing energy concerns, i am sure that they have an important role to play in easing them.
energy statistics are like the steel rods holding up a building: you cannot see them from the outside but without them the whole building collapses.
at the moment we are constructing brand new ways of doing energy.
the eu has agreed new targets on energy efficiency and renewables and co2 emissions.
we now need statistics focused on energy demand as much as on energy supply.
we need improved statistics on nuclear energy, collected and collated at european level, and we need these statistics to be processed much more quickly so that we have early feedback.
it is particularly important to make sure that statistics are available well in advance of march energy summits.
peat regenerates so slowly that it would be quite inappropriate to regard it as a renewable resource.
beyond these considerations, the major global challenges of population growth and migration, of international crime and terrorism, of climate change and energy security continue to weigh on the minds of our policy makers.
the urgent implementation of the commission’s proposals to tackle climate change is incumbent on the member states and on this house.
the report from the high representative on the impact of climate change on security and stability shows us that there is a real and immediate concern, with the danger of military implications, including the use – sometimes discussed – of nato as an instrument of energy security.
yet, blinded by short-term economic thinking, some of our member states are already busy trying to limit their commitments to the commission’s proposals on climate change.
i hope that in the council conclusions we will see a commitment by national governments and the european union to cut energy use in our own government and institutional buildings and in our car fleets, with binding targets to achieve that.
mr lenarčič, you must pay attention to social cohesion and environmental stability but you must do so secure in the knowledge that markets are the most powerful tool we have to improve living standards.
mr president, at last year’s spring council, eu leaders signed up to a ‘20% by 2020’ target for energy efficiency, but delivery of this target remains sluggish.
parliament’s report on the energy efficiency action plan exposed major failures in implementation of energy efficiency legislation.
in january, the commission’s first assessment of national energy efficiency action plans spoke of the gap between the political commitment to energy efficiency and actual delivery.
energy efficiency underpins all the eu’s targets on co2 emissions, on renewables, on security of supply and on the lisbon agenda – all the things we have been discussing this morning.
therefore, i would be grateful if the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission would indicate what this year’s spring council intends to do to improve performance on energy efficiency.
mr president, i welcome the recognition by both the council and the commission recently that climate change is not just an environment policy but also a security and humanitarian policy.
the stern report indicated that some 200 million people could be displaced by climate change, creating huge migratory pressures.
it is for that reason that we should always bear in mind that global warming is actually the poor suffering the consequences of the actions of the rich.
i would hope that in our discussion on climate change we can tie our climate change objectives to our development policy objectives.
that is why any policy on energy has to ensure that member states have a policy on energy poverty because too many people are suffering because of the rise in energy prices.
germans, dutch, british, poles – all of us – must have a common view about our relations with the russian federation and about how we go about ensuring the energy supply.
i look forward with great interest to the council’s conclusions in relation to the eu common foreign policy and common foreign energy policy, and in particular to good relations with the russian federation.
mr president, i will be very brief, but since mr schulz mentioned my name, let me at least say the following: mr schulz, i had no wish in what i was saying in any way to attack you personally, but i think we have a serious debate here about how to create competitive economies and how to stimulate competitive economies consistent with social cohesion and environmental stability.
– it is essential that the council follow up on the commitments made on climate and energy policy.
scotland has much to contribute in terms of renewable energy resources, including wave, tidal, offshore wind and even solar energy.
scotland would be in a much better position to contribute to europe’s climate change objectives if we were full participants in the european union as an independent member state.
− the goal of mr turmes’s ‘energy statistics’ report is to outline a common europe-wide framework that facilitates the availability of complete, accurate and up to date information on energy.
with citizens and policy makers becoming more aware of the importance and complexity of the energy situation, we require such measures.
it will allow for the adequate evaluation of the risk to human health and the environment that these products could carry.
the health check should truly look towards creating a market driven sector that is committed to rural and environmental sustainability.
first and foremost we believe a thorough overhaul of the cap is needed so that we can move away from direct payments to farmers towards a system that encourages rural sustainability.
by introducing measures to recognise, protect and promote the role of women in the rural sector we will not only improve equality between men and women in such areas, but stimulate economic growth and encourage sustainable development in the sector.
− as highlighted in mr tabajdi’s report on sustainable agriculture and biogas, there is a large potential for biogas that the eu has yet to exploit.
there is a need for biogas policy formulation to be encouraged across the eu if we want europe to adequately diversify its energy production.
through biogas we have an opportunity both to increase renewable energy production and contribute to sustainable economic, agricultural and rural development.
i am really pleased to say that i have seen, first-hand, in many places, especially in my region, the west midlands, how a traditional house can be adapted with the use of assistive technologies which will enable a safer and accessible home environment.
i have heard it said today that, along with climate change, ageing is one of the biggest challenges of the 21st century.
– mr president, the commission proposal for a global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund (geeref) is, of course, welcome.
it is vital that energy efficiency and renewable energy play an increasing role in developing and emerging countries for a wide range of reasons – lowering carbon dioxide emissions, cutting energy supply dependence, tackling energy poverty and creating jobs and development opportunities – indeed, for all the same reasons that it is vital that energy efficiency and renewable energy play an increasing role here in the eu.
madam president, whatever one thinks of the current debate on climate change – and i can sense a lot of hot air all around me – i think we can all agree on the need for more energy efficiency.
but, if we are going to talk about energy efficiency, let us make sure that we actually have some joined-up thinking on this.
i will give an example: our whole policy on energy-saving light bulbs.
yes, we want to phase out existing light bulbs, but yet we impose tariffs on the import of energy-saving light bulbs.
yes, we talk about banning mercury in barometers (even though it actually constitutes a very small risk), yet at the same time we are encouraging energy-saving light bulbs which contain, yes, you guessed it, more mercury.
not only that, but we are talking about energy efficiency, yet we continue to come to strasbourg, which emits tonnes and tonnes of needless extra co2.
therefore, if we really want to take a lead on energy efficiency, we should close down the strasbourg parliament.
− claude turmes’ report on the global energy and renewable energy fund (geeref) is one that i endorse.
the geeref will use limited public funds to encourage private investment in energy efficient and renewables orientated projects in developing countries and economies in transition.
a fund that helps everyone achieve a certain level of energy efficiency and embrace renewables has my support and i voted in favour of it.
the current imbalance has encouraged fuel tourism, which has economic and environmental ramifications.
we have seen a climate where numbers have been regarded as more important than life.
the advancement of clean coal technology is essential to our fulfilling our climate change targets, and there is such an urgency with this.
london is diverse in culture and thriving in its creativity and, as the cultural industries represent a significant sector of london’s economy, i very much welcome the recommendations to support their sustainability and growth.
whilst generally applauding the direction of current reform, i hope that the discussion may trigger a more radical reappraisal of the tools we use, so as to achieve the best possible balance between improving the livelihood of those engaged in fisheries, having a sustainable marine ecology in which fish stocks are conserved and maintaining the viability of fisheries-dependent communities.
mr president, i have four quick questions on climate change.
firstly, is global warming happening?
answer: no, there is increasing scientific evidence to show that what climate change we see is part of natural cycles and has very little or nothing to do with human activity.
even those who believe in global warming accept that the whole of the kyoto process, if it were fully implemented – and it will not be – would make a tiny difference in 100 years time to global temperatures.
mr president, the eu is proud of its commitment to the ipcc’s recommendations on how to combat global warming by persuading its member states to inject massive funding into carbon-emission control projects.
last month many eminent scientists and climatologists from around the world met in new york and after two days of serious discussions issued the manhattan declaration, which states categorically that there is no convincing evidence that co2 emissions from modern industrial activity have in the past, are now, or will in the future cause catastrophic climate change; and that adaptation, as needed, is massively more cost-effective than any attempted mitigation.
they recommend that world leaders reject the views expressed by the united nations ipcc, as well as popular but misguided works such as an inconvenient truth, and that all taxes, regulations and other interventions intended to reduce emissions of co2 be abandoned forthwith.
finally, lord lawson, who is a member of the house of lords select committee on climate change, says this: ‘the average temperature in helsinki is less than 5°c.
the report’s proposals will allow for a greater focus on environmental concerns and will enable the coal and steel sector to investigate ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
− i will be voting in favour of this report and i think it is important that we take the opportunity to look in more detail at the use of coal as part of our energy needs.
my own region of the north-west of england still sits on huge reserves of quality coal that is deemed too expensive to extract, and whilst it is true that coal in its purest form is not an environmentally-friendly fuel, new, clean coal technology now exists that would enable coal to play a key role in our energy supply whilst not destroying the environment in the process.
i believe clean coal does have a future and i thank the committee on industry, research and energy for its report which at least starts this discussion going.
i welcome this report which promotes a research fund to develop elements of these industries inside the eu, as we need answers to our future energy needs.
in particular, making coal an environmentally more accepted fuel could help secure our energy needs in the future when europe could be under greatest stress from uncertain supply conditions.
− i fully support the motion for a resolution brought before parliament by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety relating to combating cancer.
− i welcome the myller report on the mid-term review of the sixth community environment action programme.
i share its concerns over the increase in transport emissions and slow-moving efforts towards energy efficiency.
− i share the view mr sacconi outlines in the motion for a resolution on the commission green paper on ‘adapting to climate change in europe’.
efforts to adapt to climate change must be made as soon as possible.
climate change is happening and, while mitigation efforts are essential, they must be complemented by an eu strategy that allows us to adapt to the effects global warming will have on our everyday lives.
it also reflects a change in the political climate since the inception of the office of the ombudsman, especially with respect to increased transparency.
there are indeed legitimate concerns over maritime safety and the danger of pollution, not just at sea, but also of the air and of groundwater, in the busy, heavily-populated industrial area in which gibraltar and its spanish hinterland are found.
there should be zero tolerance of waste, fraud and mismanagement.
world population growth, poor growing conditions linked to climate change, loss of agricultural land to industrial use, immoral commodities speculation and changing eating habits have all contributed to the current crisis.
the high standards of sustainability for sourcing and manufacture, written into the european union's biofuels proposals, effectively insure europe against non-sustainable use.
so, rather than using biofuels as a scapegoat, we must move to end agricultural protectionism and export restrictions; we must move to enhance agricultural development in the poorest countries and to ensure the success of the doha development round to encourage free, fair and sustainable farm trade at global level.
we must also use our collective weight to ensure that climate change and sustainability criteria are integrated with trade policy.
i have received over a hundred requests to vote against the commission’s renewable energy target.
we have become so obsessed with global warming that we have overlooked the real elephant in the room – the global food crisis.
the eu prides itself on taking the lead in environmental matters.
it is partly because of climate change, desertification, changes in rainfall patterns, more flooding and so forth, and we are trying to do something about that.
i have always been one of those who believed that there was never any such thing as cheap food, but when you direct grain away from food supply to produce energy, then you have changed the balance.
this institution spends a great deal of time discussing the environment and bringing forward hair-shirt measures designed to force people living in europe into a kind of permanent guilt-ridden existence over their carbon footprint.
yet here we are pushing forward a project whose impact on the environment will be almost beyond calculation.
has anyone stopped to consider the carbon footprint of launching into orbit the 30 satellites required by the galileo system, which will require the burning of massive amounts of rocket engine propellant?
the eu’s environmental credentials are already highly questionable, because of the depredations of the cfp and the cap, not to mention the unnecessary provisions of parliament’s two buildings, here and in brussels.
i call upon all members here today, especially those who see themselves as environmental warriors, to examine their conscience and to oppose this colossal white elephant.
we do not need to duplicate facilities already available from the american gps, and we certainly should not inflict so much unnecessary carbon pollutant upon this environment.
this is particularly important in relation to climate change.
no continent is more vulnerable to global warming than africa, and the future of millions of africans may depend on the eu bringing china into the post-kyoto agreement and sharing renewables technology.
as we saw from the discharge votes yesterday, we will not police how money on this particular system is spent and, therefore, we will waste millions upon millions of european taxpayers’ euros and pounds.
we should not waste any more taxpayers’ money on this pointless political gesture.
i further agree with the idea that the programming of the fund should pay particular attention to mdg-related areas such as health, education, respect of the environment and encouragement of good governance.
on the one hand the eu must welcome china’s development role in africa though, worryingly, through its aid china is exporting some of its worst home practices including corruption and disregard for labour rights and environmental standards.
question no 3 by hélène goudin (h-0161/08) subject: lisbon treatyarticle 1, paragraph 24, relating to chapter 1, article 10 a, paragraph 2, (principles and aims) states that the union shall '(f) help develop international measures to preserve and improve the quality of the environment and the sustainable management of global natural resources, in order to ensure sustainable development'.
does the council consider that this provision implies that an eu ban on a particular environmental measure which goes beyond a fully harmonised level may be regarded as contrary to the treaty?
concerning your other question, the same applies: the energy mix, the choice of sources of energy is, and will remain, within the domain of sovereign decisions by member states.
each member state is free to choose nuclear power, to include nuclear power in its energy mix and each member state is free not to choose it.
– madam president, the green group certainly supports the general lines taken in this report, especially the call for more consistency between wto rule-setting, the work of un agencies and the existing social, environmental and human rights covenants.
we believe that it must include an observer status for the ilo, as well as measures against social and ecological dumping.
we also support the role of parliamentary scrutiny in order to mitigate the wto’s lack of accountability and legitimacy, as well as the need to develop the wto dispute settlement on the basis of international environmental and social law, ensuring that it has real sanctioning capacities.
we need to look at a whole range of rules that are now completely out of date in the 21st century, facing new challenges like climate change.
such discrimination is crucial if we are able to support and promote things like energy efficiency, for example, and fewer emissions.
we also need to update the wto rules to ensure that environmental sustainability and climate change are taken into greater account in wto negotiations and that social and labour clauses are also included in wto negotiations.
– madam president, my group strongly supports calling on the commission to supply parliament with more information about these fta negotiations and in particular to transmit the actual negotiating mandate and an updated sustainability impact assessment.
we also support the emphasis on the need for a strong chapter within the fta on sustainable development, given the poor record of the gulf states with regard to social and environmental standards.
that is what makes us concerned about suggestions from the trade dg that since the fta negotiations with the gulf states started a long time ago, when sustainable development issues were apparently less relevant, it is somehow now too late to burden the negotiations with new issues like human rights clauses.
but beyond our concern about the social and environmental standards of trade within the gulf region, we need to ask more carefully what kind of trade an fta with the gulf aims to liberalise.
we know of course that the eu interest is about unlimited access to energy resources, about doing away with any barriers to trade like export taxes or quantitative restrictions.
of course we know the eu is trying to out-compete other industrialised and emerging economies to get the best access conditions, that the eu sees rising energy prices and wants to sell more to the region in order to redress its trade balance.
of course, this is completely inconsistent with the eu’s stated goals with regard to its policy on climate change.
but let us just imagine a different scenario: that the eu would not seek to balance its trade relations through all-out liberalisation but would use the incentive of trade imbalance to foster the development and application of renewable energy; that the eu would not participate in the international race to secure access to oil but would insist on multilateral agreements giving all countries a fair share of diminishing global resources.
in comparison to this kind of ambitious scenario that we would like to see, the insistence of parliament on a strong chapter in the fta on sustainable development is absolutely the minimum we need in terms of deciding whether or not this house can give its assent to the upcoming agreement.
but i do regret that the social, environmental and labour clauses that we are negotiating with the gulf states are significantly weaker than those that we are negotiating in our modern round of free trade agreements.
it is difficult not to be suspicious that the commission felt it was going to be too difficult to negotiate modern sustainability, development clauses and labour clauses with the gulf states.
similarly, why has the sustainability impact assessment not been updated since 2004?
last year, this green paper was presented together with commissioner dimas with the purpose of launching a broad public debate on advancing the use of market-based instruments for environment and energy-related policy purposes in the community.
its scope is even broader, covering issues such as the greening of gross domestic product and the review of the eu emissions trading scheme.
as far as imminent actions foreseen for this year are concerned, i can inform you that the commission is planning to revise the energy taxation directive in the autumn with the objective of ensuring that it contributes more effectively to meeting the eu energy and climate change targets.
most importantly, and in line with the request of parliament, one of the main aspects will be to achieve better complementarity with the eu emissions trading scheme.
in my view, it is very important to provide for the best possible synergies between the revised eu emissions trading scheme and energy taxation in such a way as to ensure that the eu meets its climate change and energy goals in the least costly way.
this concerns, for example, the taxation of energy use – which i have just spoken about – and the eu emissions trading scheme for greenhouse gas emissions.
− mr president, ms ferreira has produced an excellent and balanced response to the commission’s green paper on market-based instruments for environmental purposes, and as draftsman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs’ opinion under the enhanced cooperation procedure, i am very pleased that we have been able to collaborate with ms ferreira and contribute significantly to this report.
in our view, the emissions trading scheme (ets) is the most cost-efficient, demand-sensitive and objective market-based instrument available for actually reaching the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions reduction target of 20% by the year 2020. the ets should be the cornerstone of the market-based instruments mix, and i welcome the commission’s proposals to improve and expand it.
auctioning should be the main means of allocating emissions targets, in order to avoid the disadvantages for competition of grandfathering.
madam commissioner, i particularly stress that we feel that energy taxation, indeed taxes and subsidies in general, should remain only a very secondary and complementary greenhouse gas reduction tool for these emissions that cannot be covered directly or indirectly by the emissions trading scheme.
for this reason, we find paragraph 26 of the report inconsistent with the overall message of giving priority to the emissions trading scheme.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
− mr president, whilst a great deal is said about climate change but little is happening in terms of concrete measures, i think the eu needs to set a global example.
therefore, greater use of market-based instruments is crucial, as they are cost-effective means to reduce carbon emissions and increase energy efficiency.
these indirect taxes, tradable permits and subsidies, i think, will assist the european union to achieve its emissions targets.
therefore, it is imperative that market failures are corrected and that we have carbon-based pricing to reflect environmental damage as part of the ‘polluter pays’ principle.
reduced vat on environmentally friendly products can assist the vulnerable in society, especially the elderly, who are now more than ever at risk of energy poverty.
furthermore, any revenues raised through auctioning should be reinvested to tackle energy poverty and fund further environmental programmes.
making economic logic align with environmental and social reality by applying the ‘polluter pays’ principle should be a powerful way of steering patterns of production and consumption towards sustainability.
for example, if the true environmental and social costs of freight transport were internalised within prices paid along the supply chain, we might finally see an end to the madness that sees more or less identical products being pointlessly traded back and forth between distant countries.
applying such principles at the level of individuals via a system of personal carbon trading could be an extremely effective way of influencing consumer behaviour.
but, as ms ferreira’s report rightly makes clear, market instruments must not be seen as a replacement for other forms of environmental standards and regulation.
the emissions trading system is a case in point.
i would like to warn colleagues that, if we listen to a lot of what the industry is telling us, we will end up with a scheme that is no more than trading backwards and forwards for the sake of trading, as we have seen with the first two phases, completely losing sight of any environmental objectives.
to be effective, the scheme has to have a tough cap deriving from the 30% emissions reduction target, restrictions on the entry of outside credits and full auctioning of allowances from the outset.
as we also draw attention to the need for eu law changes in paragraph 41, i rise to remind the commissioner that this parliament has voted that any changes to the fourth and seventh company law directives should include a requirement for social and environmental reporting by companies.
i draw to his attention such requirements in south africa, in france’s law on new economic regulations, as well as the recommendations of the prince of wales’s accounting for sustainability project from my own country, the uk.
in the mean time, and in addition, i would like to ask the commissioner, following the 2001 commission recommendation on environmental issues in our new accounts, whether the commission could issue a similar recommendation on social issues in accounts.
i would also like to ask the commissioner to press the international accounting standards board to include social and environmental aspects in its planned publication of a management commentary.
− although i will vote in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, i have to say it is a typical european parliament resolution brought about not for a concern for the environment or maritime safety but because conservative spanish politicians are still desperately trying to reclaim gibraltar and embarrass their own government.
− cooperation in this area requires a dialogue that promotes, among others, social cohesion and cooperation in fighting global warming.
an fta between the eu and the gulf cooperation council should contain provisions on labour and environmental norms and human rights.
− the ppe-de welcomes the report on the green paper on market-based instruments for environment and related policy purposes.
we believe it contains many good and constructive elements that serve to emphasise the importance of mbis in developing and implementing environmental policy.
the ppe-de would also emphasise that the concept is incompatible with the continued development of an efficient eu emissions trading system.
− labour meps support market-based instruments to tackle climate change such as the eu ets system.
- para 50: energy tax directive: some derogations on fossil fuel taxes for domestic consumers have social policy objectives which must be respected.
aside from using trade and energy supplies as diplomatic weapons, putin has consistently sought to undermine georgia’s territorial integrity through tacit support for the breakaway, self-styled republics of abkhazia and south ossetia.
the trade committee believes that an essential part of any agreement must be a sustainable development chapter, including a sustainability impact assessment.
plus we need a parallel political cooperation agreement with binding social and environmental clauses committing both sides to the ratification of core ilo conventions, as well as the normal pca clauses on human rights and democracy.
trade and sustainable development fora should be established including employers, employees and civic societies that can actually have an input not only into the negotiations but, more importantly, afterwards on how the agreement is carried out.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
we expect to see covered the avoidance of environmental damage from deforestation and palm oil extraction and, while recognising the need to keep anti-dumping mechanisms at our disposal, we would much prefer avoiding the need for them by pre-emptive intervention and negotiation.
we look for concerted actions with asean on the energy front and for the commission to promote joint research projects with establishments in that region.
mr ford’s report sends a clear and consistent message to the commission: that parliament wants to see a strong sustainable development chapter in all the new generation of free-trade agreements.
the report has many references to non-trade clauses which i am pleased to say are consistent with the line that i took in my own report on korea, and in particular i am pleased that the report emphasises strong social and environmental clauses.
the role of trade unions and workers’ organisations should be more formalised, and i am pleased that the rapporteur has suggested the creation of a trade and sustainable development forum which can monitor standards and report on any violations.
in terms of environmental standards, the trade committee has highlighted in many of its recent reports – for example the lipietz report on climate change or my own report on korea – that international trade should facilitate the diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies, and i again acknowledge the fact that commissioner mandelson has on many occasions shown his commitment to reducing tariffs on environmentally-friendly technologies, and i hope the commissioner can therefore take on board the rapporteur’s suggestion to agree to this being part of the asean negotiations.
any violations of social and environmental standards must be subject to the standard dispute mechanism.
bottom-trawlers are operating in a way that would require a major environmental impact assessment in any other industry operating in deep-sea areas.
having said this, i recognise the nature of the artisanal fishery off the coast of portugal and around the azores, where the fishing is carried out in a sustainable way.
so i was somewhat astonished to hear the spokesman of the committee on the environment attack the socialist group for being less transparent than the greens, when in fact the greens have an amendment which, if you read it literally, would actually put a ceiling on the transparency requirement.
the cfp has been an unmitigated disaster and has not promoted a sustainable fishing industry around our coasts.
key for me were amendments 7 and 14 and paragraph 42. these sections recognise the importance of ensuring accessible and sustainable public services - amendment 7; the enforcement of labour standards through a dispute settlement mechanism - amendment 14; and the need to treat environmentally friendly and fair trade goods differently when it comes to tariffs - paragraph 42. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr ford, on his report.
i welcome the call in mrs miguélez ramos’ report for fishermen and their associations to be fully involved in defining measures designed to safeguard the marine environment.
sustainable fisheries depend upon decisions being taken at a local level and involving those to whom they are addressed.
above all, it is a big plus for protection of the environment.
over the years, as a member of the committee on petitions, i have noted that it is damage to the environment that most frequently brings our citizens to seek our help in implementing what they see should be european law.
now at last we will be able to say that we have – or should have – the effective means to make sure that european environmental law is indeed implemented and enforced as our citizens expect across the european union.
climate change, written in the language of floods, droughts and record-breaking temperatures, is only making the situation worse, particularly for the world’s poorest.
we have waters rich in minerals, energy and biological resources and we are ideally located as a maritime hub for europe and the wider world.
any eu policy should assist maritime nations in achieving their objectives such as by funding research, by facilitating development of new routes for transporting goods and passengers, supporting energy interconnectors, improving safety on vessels and energy efficiency.
but we rely on our maritime resources for more than trade: our seas are a source of food, energy, minerals and recreation.
the sea is also an important climate regulator and we have already seen the results of climate change on fish stocks.
critics always try to blame the fishermen for over-exploitation of our marine resources, but global warming, environmental pollution and many other factors have also played a part.
if we are to realise the full potential of europe’s maritime interests and to realise the vision of clean, healthy, safe, productive and biologically diverse oceans and seas, then we have to implement a management plan that aims for sustainability in every area, and the way to do that is devolve more management responsibility to our regional advisory councils.
the links between shipping, climate change and tackling pollution are essential if we are to preserve the common resource of our seas and oceans.
it is true that certain services can benefit from a liberalised economic environment and the freedom of movement for services is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu.
my own country, scotland, is at the very heart of europe in maritime affairs and we can benefit from an eu-wide policy which covers areas as diverse as the environment, transport, tourism and employment.
we need a coordinated approach against the exploitation and pollution of our seas.
it also involves unnecessary shipping across the atlantic, which increases emissions of greenhouse gases.
will the sustainability criteria as proposed by the commission solve this problem and make it illegal to sell biofuels on the european market that have been involved in this practice?
i think it is a scandal and it makes a mockery of all the work we are doing on climate change.
in terms of sustainability criteria, if we have a greenhouse gas savings criterion, would these kinds of biofuels not fall foul of that because it has been shipped up and down the atlantic adding greenhouse gas from shipping emissions, which are 5% of world co2 at the moment?
in addition, through its recent decision not to introduce the ecological and fishing protection zone croatia has cleared the way for faster progress in the accession negotiations.
particularly important was the compromise reached before the vote in the committee on industry, research and energy, stipulating that all applicants must commit to services covering at least 50% of the population and at least 60% of the aggregate land area of each member state.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i was honoured to produce the opinion from the committee on industry, research and energy.
written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the council common position for adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the banning of exports and the safe storage of metallic mercury (11488/1/2007 – c6-0034/2008 – 2006/0206(cod)) (rapporteur: dimitrios papadimoulis) (a6-0102/2008).
written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the green paper on better ship dismantling (2007/2279(ini)) (a6-0156/2008).
i agree with the rapporteur when he says that we must work towards a global strategy which ensures that all those who are involved in the process of ship recycling assume their due share of responsibility for the way it is carried out – for safety, workers’ rights and the protection of the environment.
we need to invest in specialised cleaning operations in europe so that we can have a much safer environment for people to dismantle ships in the developing countries.
– mr president, if the interim report from our committee on climate change does no more than state the obvious, that is no bad thing.
the science of climate change is incontrovertible.
the deadlines for climate policy are set not by the european union, nor by the world community: they are set by nature.
and the bottom line is that – despite commitments in kyoto – global greenhouse gas emissions are growing faster than ever before, up by a quarter since 1990. some scientists say co2 concentrations have already gone too far.
all agree the window of opportunity open to us to stabilise emissions and limit the rise in temperature to two degrees above pre-industrial levels will close within seven years.
serious problems are often not tackled until they have to be tackled, and as karl-heinz florenz points out in this excellent report we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions not by 20%, but possibly by up to 40%, depending on what deal can be made with third countries at the copenhagen talks next year.
beijing showed a new-found willingness to negotiate at the un summit in bali and all three us presidential candidates are committed to tackling climate change.
what we must do – in the absence of further evidence, and with the resources at hand – is to approve the commission’s climate change package, and i salute the work that my colleagues lena ek, chris davis and vittorio prodi have done in this area.
we must also redouble our efforts to promote clean energy – and the amazing thing is this: we know how.
generating power from the desert sun, as a supplement to sources of renewable energy here in europe, could speed up the process of cutting co2 emissions at a stroke.
if we could summon the drive and the determination, the guts and the grit, we could make the shift from oil while providing jobs, drinking water and better infrastructure for those bearing the brunt of climate change.
we could combat climate change without having to turn off the lights.
knowledge brings with it responsibility and to know what we know about the realities of climate change and yet to fail to act in a commensurate way would amount to nothing less than a crime against future generations.
so the logic of the report is this: that the eu’s 20% emission reduction target is quite simply incompatible with the science on two degrees; that we must therefore move unilaterally to make at least 30% domestic reductions now; that we must respond to new facts – just last month a leading climate scientist, james hansen, warned that current targets are far too weak and that we must commit far more resources to helping developing countries adapt, with all the revenue from the ets auctioning being ring-fenced for climate action.
the good news is that the eu is uniquely well placed to take the lead on climate change and that, if we were to take up that challenge, we might also find that our own institutions are revitalised and that the eu is reconnected with the citizens it is supposed to represent.
amongst other things, it states that ‘there is no convincing evidence that co2 emissions from modern industrial activity has in the past, is now, or will in the future, cause catastrophic climate change’.
this is no longer the odd dissenting voice, and nigel lawson, a member of the house of lords committee on climate change, also agrees that the debate is not over.
before we commit ourselves to enormous costs by way of climate taxes, carbon trading etc.
since 1850, average temperatures correlate well with solar cycles but very poorly with atmospheric co2.
the greenhouse models predict maximum warming in the high atmosphere, but observations show that what little warming there is is at the surface and largely a result of the urban heat-island effect.
the greenhouse effect of co2 is logarithmic; that is, it is a law of diminishing returns.
in greenhouse terms, the atmosphere is already saturated with co2 and further emissions will have little effect.
the sea-level is rising no faster than it always has, about six to eight inches a century; the global ice mass is broadly constant; severe weather events are no more frequent than they ever were; species extinction is driven not by global warming but by loss of habitat, and especially by the drive for biofuels.
climate hysteria is increasingly remote from reality.
– to successfully tackle climate change, markets need to adapt so they reflect the environmental cost of carbon.
we must use every type of policy instrument including vat reductions, emissions trading, and subsidies to change the behaviour of consumers and businesses so they have more incentives to take eco-friendly options.
as sir nicholas stern has pointed out, the economic and social costs of climate change will be catastrophic.
therefore, i strongly disagree with those in the house who deny climate change.
the eu has a legitimate role in tackling climate change and it needs to set an example and provide guidance to other countries.
we need greater dialogue with emerging economies india and china to ensure that their growth contributes less to global emissions than eu and us’s has done over the last century.
there is a strong case for technology transfer from the eu to developing countries so they can avoid carbon intensive industrial development and leapfrog directly to a low carbon economy.
(applause)
mr president, when this regulation came before parliament at first reading, i opposed attempts to allow mercury to be stored, not only in salt mines but also in underground facilities adapted for waste disposal.
it was clear that anhydrite mines were being included in the expanded definition and this was very worrying for the people of billingham in my constituency, who are fighting plans to use the former anhydrite mines under their homes for waste disposal.
it seems that climate alarmism and environmentalism are rapidly taking on the characteristics of a religion.
and the possibility of carbon offsetting has been rightly compared with the medieval purchase of papal indulgences.
now we have mr nassauer introducing what appears to be a sort of environmental blasphemy law.
i have considerable reservations about these environmental issues being dealt with by criminal law rather than civil law, in any case.
one of the greatest myths of climate alarmism is that there is a scientific consensus and that all scientists agree.
as a member of the temporary committee on climate change i know why mr florenz’s report turned out the way it did: they only listened to one side of the debate and therefore they concluded there was a consensus.
in the debate earlier today, mr booth reminded us of the oregon declaration, which 30 000 relevant scientists have signed, challenging the whole basis of climate alarmism.
our objection to strasbourg is not based on any opposition to the exercise of workers' rights in france, but the inherent waste involved in our current institutional arrangements.
− i voted in favour of this report as it will allow criminal sanctions for serious environmental offences.
member states must take a strong stance on environmental protection and ensure strict application of this directive.
− i voted in favour of the nassauer report on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
whilst substantive criminal law is and should remain a matter for member states, it is equally clear that environmental protection is something which can best be coordinated at the eu level.
i am satisfied that the compromise package will allow the eu take the lead in environmental protection whilst respecting the integrity of national legal systems.
− i supported mr lehne's report on simplifying the business environment for companies.
the eu has a vital role to play in ensuring that businesses operate in a competitive environment, yet often businesses and member states find themselves hindered by over-complex rules.
moves to simplify the business environment are therefore to be welcomed.
ship breaking is a dangerous trade which has a high cost both in terms of human life and on the environment.
these ships are in effect hazardous waste and it is vital that the eu acts to prevent this export.
− johannes blokland's report on the green paper on better ship dismantling seeks to achieve environmentally and socially sustainable ship dismantling.
− i voted in favour of the florenz report on climate change and think that it is right that this parliament takes the issue so seriously.
efforts to combat climate change require action at all levels, and the eu institutions as well as the nations of europe must all work together to move towards a low-carbon economy.
the vote on the report comes on the same day that a major energy conference takes place in aberdeen.
the scottish government has signalled their intention for scotland to become the green energy capital of europe.
that government fully supports the eu’s targets for renewables and is committed to a non-nuclear scotland producing 50% of its electricity demand from renewable sources by 2020. i hope that other nations throughout europe can look to scotland as a good example in the fight against climate change.
− scientific findings prove the human origins of the current global warming trend and mr florenz's report re-iterates these results.
there is an urgent need for action at eu level to combat climate change and limit the increase in global temperature to no more than 2 c above pre-industrial levels.
unlike some members from the conservative party, i fully accept these facts and voted in support of mr florenz's report "scientific facts of climate change: findings and recommendations for decision making".
moreover, a more sensible balance regarding the use of grain for food supply and energy production needs to be achieved.
states must not be given the opportunity to continue using old stocks of these weapons whose impact on health and the environment remains, in my view, uncertain.
in a time when the threat of outbreaks of new and existing animal diseases is acute and expected to be more so due to climate change, it appears sensible to have a secure and robust animal movement system with such identification and registration methods.
we have to demand that the government of burundi respect the rule of law, end the climate of impunity and ensure that those guilty are swiftly brought to justice.
the debates we had with our congressional colleagues showed just how broad an agenda has now developed between the us congress and the european parliament in this transatlantic framework: economic issues, which we heard the commissioner talk about just now, political issues, which could also be economic, like climate change, but also difficult issues like afghanistan and the broader security concept.
secondly, we need to promote the positive agenda as well as challenge each other over the difficult issues such as climate change.
joint investment in infrastructure – such as ports, sea links and energy grids – will bring our peoples together far more effectively than the high-sounding declarations which characterised the barcelona process.
the kind of energy which brought together the french and germans after the last big war must be invested in bringing europeans and north africans together to prevent the next.
is it really a good idea to put our energy security in the hands of the military dictatorship in algeria or colonel gadaffi in libya, both of whom are aware of our vulnerability?
− the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems is essential in order that future generations can enjoy the marine environment.
such a change should involve europe and the eu should be looking to strengthen the eu-us partnership, especially when addressing global challenges such as climate change and poverty.
sustainable rural development is the key to maintaining our countryside and the traditional way of life enjoyed by our rural communities.
indeed, on the issue of modulation, members may recall that it was only british labour meps who supported concerted efforts to change our priorities away from direct payments and into sustainable rural development.
farmers have a key role to play in delivering rural sustainability and development, but they are not the only people involved in that delivery, which is why i cannot support amendment 35. this parliament has developed a habit of constantly demanding direct payments to farmers and no doubt it will do the same when we discuss the cap health check in the near future.
i think those of us who believe that things need to change in this regard, away from a system that rewards inefficiency at the expense of efficient agriculture, are those who truly believe in sustainable rural development.
in the current climate there are serious questions over the eu’s capacity to produce enough food to satisfy demand, and the implications of a similar outbreak here would be disastrous.
− madam president, following your ruling that there is no time for points of order, i will continue with my speech on the waste framework directive.
since certain comments have been made on this point in the british press recently, may i begin by drawing attention once again to my declaration of interests, which i made on the record, and which cites my membership of the environmental advisory board of shanks plc.
that company operates a wide range of waste technologies in britain and on the continent, and the primary purpose of its environmental advisory board is to provide independent audits of the operation of its plants.
various judgments in the court of justice regarding the status of waste destined for treatment in energy-from-waste plants needed to be clarified.
two existing directives on hazardous waste and on waste oils were repealed and their provisions transferred to the waste framework directive.
that is a very significant achievement since these were not in the original proposal, and this is the first time that recycling targets for household waste have appeared in eu legislation.
the new article 8a requires member states to take the necessary measures designed to achieve an overall recycling rate of 50% by 2020 for paper, metal, plastic and glass from household and similar waste.
the same article also requires that by 2020 70% of construction and demolition waste be recycled.
secondly, we have added new provisions on the prevention of waste, in article 8a.
these will mean that the commission has to report on the evolution of eu waste generation and the scope for waste prevention by 2011, and by 2014 must produce proposals for waste prevention, and decoupling objectives for 2020. it proved impossible to get the council or the commission to agree to quantitative waste prevention targets in this directive, partly because the data necessary for those targets is missing, but parliament has, through its amendments, created momentum for future policy that may contain waste prevention targets.
thirdly, we have firmly placed the famous eu waste hierarchy in eu law for the first time.
however, it will be soon, and we can celebrate a minor victory in getting the council to agree that the hierarchy shall apply ‘as a priority order’ in waste prevention and management legislation.
fourthly, we have secured agreement to place better emphasis on hazardous waste management, as several colleagues wanted.
fifthly, we have also ensured that priority will continue to be given to the regeneration of waste oils – although there was no support for a policy, which i know some colleagues wanted, that would have made regeneration mandatory in all member states.
we secured council support for the amendment put forward by mrs hennicot-schoepges and colleagues designed to make it easier for smes to use the waste list, and we also obtained support for a new article on biowaste.
in conclusion, the directive specifies the energy efficiency criteria for incineration, with energy recovery to be classed as a recovery operation rather than disposal.
it is important because we have had a whole raft of waste proposals in my time in this parliament: we have dealt with vehicles, electrical and electronic equipment, batteries, packaging and so forth.
however, waste goes on rising; it rises faster than the growth of our economies.
it grows fastest in some areas like municipal waste, and that is why we need to take action.
my own country sets one of the worst examples in terms of waste.
we have supported 30 of the compromise amendments and we have tabled others to try and strengthen the compromise in the areas of hazardous waste, end of waste, by-products and separate collection of biowaste.
but from the very start, the main issues for us were the adoption of binding targets on waste reduction and recycling and opposition to the reclassification of incineration as energy recovery.
the final compromise does not have a legally binding target for waste reduction.
a study on waste prevention is no alternative to stabilisation measures; the continuous growth in waste is unsustainable and without this measure it will continue to grow.
manufacturing and industrial waste, which have a huge potential for reuse and recycling, have been left out altogether.
incineration cannot be viewed as a waste management option on a par with recycling and reuse; this will just attract further investment into incinerators and directly undermine the waste hierarchy.
if the weak compromise is adopted, we will have missed the opportunity to ensure real eu action and leadership on waste policy when we so desperately need it.
we all recognise that the size of our waste mountain needs to be reduced.
it wants to ensure that waste food is converted to energy by anaerobic digestion.
it wants to restrict the number of materials used in packaging to just four which are easy to recycle or compost and it wants to print simple symbols on all packaging to make it easy for customers to recycle or compost their waste.
reducing waste is a matter of political will and that will can be strengthened by european union law.
i suspect that we could have got the council to at least agree to bring forward the date by which it will publish proposals for waste reduction from 2014 to a few years earlier.
madam president, across europe, every member state is struggling with runaway energy prices.
therefore seeing waste as potentially important fuel is, i believe, both sensible and necessary.
it is surely a win-win situation – both dealing with our massive stockpiles of waste and providing an alternative energy supply source, particularly as we face an energy crisis and increasing dependence upon insecure foreign supplies of oil.
i therefore do not therefore understand the reticence of some in facing up to the obvious advantage of promoting energy from waste.
i fear some colleagues feel so precious about their recycling and anti-incineration dogmas that they would sacrifice the opportunity of heat and power from waste.
on a related note, could i say that i very strongly favour maximising the definition of ‘recovery’ under the directive, making it indisputably clear that energy from waste represents recovery, not disposal, of waste.
i believe it is a balanced package: the environment will be protected, the water quality of our citizens will be increased, and the burden on the economy will be reasonable – and i think that is also important.
the member states may designate – as the rapporteur said – mixing zones, where concentrations of chemical substances may exceed the relevant environmental quality standards under certain circumstances, but of course they will have to reach and be monitored with great care.
it provides for the establishment of a river basin management plan, dredging and shipping – even this leads to discharges and emissions.
i think water policy is one of the successes of european environment policy.
even when no transboundary issues are involved, the collective determination to address the pollution of both past and present years has brought about levels of investment to secure improvement in water quality that have far exceeded what would have been achieved if member states had been left to act in isolation.
pollution is identifiable and measurable.
but we also see reports from the european environment agency that there are many instances of member states still failing to enforce the legislation as effectively and as adequately as should be the case.
the rapporteur, mrs jackson, has been getting money from a recycling company or a waste-disposal company, which was undeclared, when she was actually rapporteur of this committee.
i have referred to this in the debates in the environment committee.
i am a member of the environmental advisory board of a company called shanks plc in the uk and have been for the past three years.
the environmental advisory board includes amongst its members a member of the green alliance and the chairman of one of the eu scientific advisory committees.
the environmental advisory board is solely concerned with the environmental audit performance of the company’s sites within the terms of eu legislation.
i feel that my experience on the board has helped me put together a reasonable report which does not favour any particular sort of waste treatment.
the provision for waste disposal is absolutely vital in every european country, not least my own, and i think this is a happy compromise.
− the second reading on the waste framework directive represents a wasted opportunity.
the eu should be setting firm targets for waste reduction, not producing non-binding aspirations for some far-distant future date.
− i welcome caroline jackson’s report on the revision of the framework directive on waste.
to adequately contribute to our climate change objectives, the eu needs to renew its commitment to waste reduction and recycling.
we would make considerable progress on this by introducing binding recycling and re-use targets by 2020 of 50% for household waste and 70% for construction and demolition.
the eu's policies have a profound impact on the economies, environment and societies of west africa and it is imperative that we take responsibility for our actions in dealing with west african nations.
− mr president, i hope that if parliament adopts the electricity report tomorrow, it will be an indication to energy companies all over europe that we want the consumer back in the driving seat.
there cannot be anyone within the european union who has not noticed the massive increase in energy prices in recent months.
all over the european union there are people struggling to pay their energy bills so we believe that the issue of ‘energy poverty’ should be placed firmly on the eu agenda.
after all, the ets system and the renewables targets are european and they impact on energy prices.
we have respected subsidiarity, commissioner, in our request that member states should come up with their own definitions of energy poverty and an action plan for dealing with the problem.
already many rights for consumers exist in the energy field but they are not enforced.
we believe there should be a roll-out of smart meters within 10 years, which should boost energy efficiency, and companies should be creative in the way they charge for energy and not reward people who use more as is currently the case.
that is why i believe, as rapporteur, that total separation of energy supply from transmission companies or full ownership unbundling – as was suggested initially by the commission – should be the only option for electricity companies.
if the agency is to contribute effectively to the development of an integrated competitive energy market for the european union, the agency will need more extensive powers and be independent of the commission in order to handle cross-border situations and deliver effective cooperation between the tsos and the nras – the national regulatory authorities.
the future of the european energy market and its development after the implementation of the third energy package will require an important role to be played by the agency, and that is why the power and independence of the agency must be enhanced over and above the level proposed by the commission.
– madam president, these reports bring the usual wish list of incompatible objectives: security of energy supply, an efficient energy market, reduction of co2, harmonised rules for all countries and cheap energy for pensioners.
well, cheap energy for some means that the rest of us pay for it.
perhaps we think we shall win friends by forcing governments to provide subsidised energy to those suffering from so-called ‘energy poverty’.
one thing that these reports should highlight, but do not, is the foolishness of the targets for carbon and renewable energy.
the oil price is high and likely to remain high, yet the cost of energy to consumers is going to be higher still in order to subsidise renewables.
ironically, sustained high oil prices are just what is needed to reduce co2 emissions.
countries would indeed be foolish to rely too heavily on their neighbours for energy supplies.
that is amendment 161 to the morgan report, pushing for better access to the grid for renewable operators.
by way of example, in the united kingdom we have ofgem, our national authority, which has a locational pricing mechanism for access to the uk grid that actually discriminates against renewable operators within scotland, my country.
madam president, i should like to give an example of where the charter on the rights of energy consumers can make a real difference.
a small community organisation in manchester asked for my help in resolving a complaint with its energy supplier.
ensuring consumers are aware of their rights – in this case the simple right to receive a regular bill – is fundamental to putting consumers in control of their energy consumption.
at a time when every consumer in every country across europe is facing soaring energy bills, we must give consumers the information and tools to manage their bills, cut their use and costs and, at the same time, contribute to cutting co2 emissions.
i urge the commission to be bold in taking forward a charter of rights, working with regulators, member states and companies to proactively promote and publicise these rights, and to abandon the notion of a watered-down checklist, which will not deliver a fair deal for consumers faced with today’s complex energy challenges and prices.
if we can have a charter of rights for air passengers, why can we not have one for energy consumers?
better regulation of electricity and gas markets is critical to ensuring fair competition and better prices for consumers and i am deeply concerned that soaring energy prices are putting europeans increasingly at risk of energy poverty, especially the elderly, who are the most vulnerable.
given the current conditions in energy security, we absolutely need a well-functioning gas and electricity market in europe.
recently we have experienced problems with the supply of energy and this report rightly seeks to resolve some of these.
i have received a number of letters from my constituents in support of amendment 159 which would prohibit member states from authorising the construction of new power stations that emit more than 350 g of carbon dioxide per kilowatt produced.
i would like to reflect a little on what mr hökmark said about developing the best possible system to ensure security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness.
we have large industrial energy users coming up to us and asking us privately to unbundle, but when we tell them that we will try to do that and ask them to come and say that to us publicly, they say they cannot do that as they are vulnerable!
we, the socialists, in particular, have listened to what our constituents are saying: that high prices are hurting and that they are really suffering at the moment, and we want the issue of energy poverty put on the agenda in the member states.
only one country in europe has a definition of energy poverty.
it seems quite extraordinary that we should be putting the marginal price of energy lower than the initial price, and thereby encouraging consumption when surely we live in an age when we want to encourage conservation and efficiency and make it more expensive to consume more.
this revolution is based on the clean coal and carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies that are being developed at the hatfield colliery near doncaster.
ccs technologies would mean that 90% of a power station’s co2 emissions are captured and then transferred to geological storage.
such technology could revolutionise the way in which the uk satisfies its energy requirements.
question no 31 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0347/08) subject: promotion of environmental protection through enterprises how does the commission promote the integration of the environmental dimension into policies on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the adjustment of the latter to the requirements of the new european legislation on the environment?
what scope will smes be given to exploit the opportunities afforded by the new environmental policy in order to extend their activities?
question no 32 by georgios papastamkos (h-0349/08) subject: international deliberations on the environment what are the reasons for the lack of international deliberations on climate change for the post-kyoto period and why has global environmental governance been only partially effective?
get on with the real business of europe: boosting trade, combating climate change, fighting food and fuel price rises.
the eu is a political process designed to deal with those issues so that is what we should be doing: looking at the millennium development goals, at climate change, at migration.
− mr president, this report is the first in a package of measures dealing with the energy markets in the eu.
it includes tackling energy poverty, better rights for consumers and measures to make the market work better.
we obviously need a far more competitive energy industry in europe to ensure that everyone across europe benefits from better competition, lower prices and better-value quality services.
those of us who support direct democracy in a localism agenda would say, ‘why stop at energy?’ why not devolve more power in a whole series of areas, not only back to national governments, but also to local communities – those people closest to the issue that is being legislated on?
so surely, if we are going to go down to the most local of areas to produce our energy, we should trust the people locally to take on the solutions that they need.
− president, i spoke on the morgan report during the debate but i did not have the opportunity to speak on amendment 159. this amendment would prohibit member states from authorising the construction of new power stations that emit more than 350g of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour produced.
whilst we appreciate that climate change is real and present and we have an obligation to address this, we have voted against amendment 159 because it would knock out the development of all new gas-, oil- and coal-fired power stations.
nevertheless, the final morgan report does contain much to commend it, and i welcome the addition of references to the proposed charter on energy consumers' rights.
− energy markets are increasingly taking on a pan-european nature and the proposed agency for the co-operation of energy regulators will play an important role as the markets develop.
we must, of course, consume less, invest in renewables and new technologies like hydrogen-fuel-cell cars and look at whether biofuels, in terms of their overall effect, are good or bad in terms of global emissions and in food inflation for the developing world.
i agree with the commission that we must aim to reduce our consumption and dependency on oil and focus our efforts on promoting energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources.
other measures suggested, including restructuring but going beyond that to energy efficiency and alternative energy sources, also serve environmental purposes.
priorities for the summit must include energy security as a reliable trading partner for oil and gas but also, with russia’s imminent accession to the wto, legal certainty for western natural resource companies in their foreign direct investments in russia.
russia plays a key role in the western balkans, including resolving the kosovo question, and should not fear expansion of nato to include ukraine and georgia and could even help improve the repressive political climate in neighbouring belarus.
it is also worth reflecting on the energy relationship.
gazprom has quite clearly failed to convince this parliament, in the committee on foreign affairs, in the committee on industry, research and energy, and in the committee on petitions.
however, it is important to distinguish between two very different realities in this sector: on the one hand, extensive farming, which is more beneficial to the environment but often less profitable for the farmer, and on the other hand, intensive farming systems, which are more competitive but less environmentally sustainable.
it should be recalled in this context that the aim of recent cap reforms was to make european union agriculture more efficient and competitive, while at the same time ensuring its sustainability.
we cannot maintain artificial restrictions which prevent farmers from meeting an increasing demand, but at the same time we must pursue a policy of environmental protection.
finally, we propose to strengthen rural development policy, which promotes the protection of the environment and the rural landscape, as well as creating employment and stimulating growth and innovation in rural areas, with particular attention to those that are peripheral, depopulated or heavily dependent on agricultural activity.
sheep farming is extremely good, not only for farming but for the environment, and we talk a great deal today about a great environment for agriculture.
there are not just farm income issues here but pertinent environmental issues because, of all farmed animals, sheep probably contribute the most to the natural upkeep of less fertile areas and the maintenance of biodiversity.
environmental degradation of many upland and less-favoured areas will result from diminishing sheep farming.
from the floods in the uk last year, we are aware of the human, economic and environmental damage that can be caused.
− i am strongly in favour of consumers being able to obtain secure, safe, reliable and sustainable supplies of gas and electricity at reasonable prices.
that has clogged up the system, making all the rest of us wait longer for our answers, costing a fortune because all such questions have to be translated into every language, circulated around the commissioners for a collective reply and collegiate reply, and is a waste of our time and resources.
30 000 signatures demonstrate the concern there is around the coast of the baltic sea, which has been described as a sea dying of pollution.
the question is: is it really the most sensible thing to drive an energy pipeline along the bottom of this particular part of the european union?
i have the honour of writing the opinion for the committee on foreign affairs, and, as well as the environmental issues which the committee on petitions has looked at, we were also concerned about the nature of the environmental assessment study to which the commission has just referred.
in your reply, commissioner, could you confirm that you will accept parliament's paragraph 20 of the libicki report, which calls upon you and the commission to carry out an independent environmental assessment?
there is some concern that if the proposers commission an environmental assessment it might lack objectivity.
– mr president, this is an incredibly important multifaceted report, and it covers a very difficult bundle of european issues, not just the environmental.
fundamentally, the pipeline underlines the need, if ever we needed it underlined, for a european approach to energy supply.
there has been much said about the environment, and the commissioner has given some good answers to do with european environmental law, international legal obligations, but we need to build confidence here; we need to ensure, as far as possible, that european standards are adhered to and that there is a coordinated, coherent european approach to the environmental issues.
for years now, governments have been talking with such enthusiasm about the ets as the great answer to ensuring that aviation makes a real contribution to emissions reductions.
because of the council’s intransigence the agreement we have today is a far cry from what is really needed and represents starkly the enormous gap between our governments’ rhetoric on climate change and the degree of political will that they are actually willing to muster.
in order for it to become meaningful and for aviation emissions to be genuinely addressed we must now make sure the efforts are rapidly scaled up and given the environmental integrity they urgently need.
it also shows that europe is serious about climate change.
madam minister, you said that we want to show the world that we can tackle climate change, that we do not just talk the talk at european summits, but that we walk the walk in legislation in the european union.
i think the agreement here today is a good sign that we can, if we want to, get the agreement on the climate change package before the end of the year.
what are we going to do about the emissions trading scheme?
minister and commissioner, i hope that you will both stick to your guns and that we will work together with mrs doyle on the emissions trading scheme.
if we are asking citizens to play their part in tackling climate change, we have to do our bit here in this european union on legislation.
ets is much more effective than taxes in actually reaching our emissions targets.
the cost to passengers, freight forwarders and airlines will be related directly to the emissions they cause and governments will not be able to justify padding out their treasury shortfalls with spurious green taxes on aviation and the travelling public.
we are simply asking for a split vote at the semicolon, in other words just following the words ‘it is of great importance that russia show good will regarding cooperation in the european energy policy;’.
we, on this side of the house, consider that it is unnecessary and the first part of the amendment could be misinterpreted, but we would like to support the second part, which stresses the importance of russia ratifying the energy charter.
− boguslaw sonik's report "protocol on strategic environmental assessment to the 1991 un/ece espoo convention on environmental impact assessment in a transboundary context" is to be supported.
environmental and health concerns need to be taken into account when promoting sustainable development.
strengthening the existing agreement is a positive thing, however, this new agreement should focus on the key challenges that we are faced with, in particular climate change, energy security and health epidemics.
− i welcome mr liese’s report on the inclusion of aviation in the european emissions trading system.
the parliament needs to make clear its commitment to combating climate change and introduce ambitious environmental legislation.
15% auctioning for aviation emissions with a view to increase this in 2013 appears a satisfactory compromise.
while i support the report’s recommendations, the parliament must continue to be ambitious in setting targets for aviation emissions in the eu ets and look ahead to building upon mr liese’s proposals for the general review of the ets.
− the inclusion of aviation activities in the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme should be welcomed.
− a project on the scale of the nordstream gas pipeline requires full and thorough examination of the environmental implications involved.
before the project can start, we must make sure that the project meets stringent environmental criteria.
these views are reflected in my vote on marcin libicki's report on the environmental impact of the planned gas pipeline in the baltic sea to link up russia and germany.
− i welcome the fact that the committee on petitions took this initiative to bring this report on the environmental impact of the planned gas pipeline in the baltic sea to a vote.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by atanas paparizov, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1775/2005 on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks (com(2007)0532 – c6-0319/2007 – 2007/0199(cod)) (a6-0253/2008),– the report by romano maria la russa, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/55/ec concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas (com(2007)0529 – c6-0317/2007 – 2007/0196(cod)) (a6-0257/2008), and – the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european strategic energy technology plan (2008/2005(ini)) (a6-0255/2008).
– mr president, this debate assumes that the eu is to be heavily reliant on natural gas for energy.
coal has a bad name, partly for pollution and partly for the extra carbon dioxide it produces per kilowatt as compared to gas.
turning coal into coke produces two smoke-free sources: gas and coke, which when properly burnt together produce more energy than the coal they came from, in the ratio of 5:4. moreover, by thoroughly scrubbing the gas, what are otherwise pollutants are removed.
why are there are doubts about nuclear energy, especially here in france, where nuclear power stations produce 70% of our electricity?
thus is state surveillance ratcheted upwards, while energy failure is to be a public order issue, giving the police powers of intervention.
meanwhile it must be noted that earlier this very day, parliament voted to approve investigation into the environmental impact of the proposed gas pipeline under the baltic sea.
we must expand our railways, both in infrastructure and rolling-stock terms, so that we can deliver an efficient, effective and sustainable railway network devoid of obstacles.
at the same time campaigns are moving to re-open long closed stations and lines to cope with demand and the need to reduce carbon emissions, such as the campaign in radstock, somerset.
− the european union has agreed on a 10% target for renewable fuels within the transport sector, and this 10% is by 2020. i think it is important that we say ‘renewables’ because it is not only biofuels – it is not only ethanol or biodiesel.
so this is related to the oil price increase and not to the discussion on renewable energies.
second-generation biofuels are produced from feedstock other than food crops and can come not only from dedicated energy crops but also from sources such as recycled vegetable oil, animal fat, by-products from the forestry industry, forestry residues and solid waste such as grasses.
in the commission proposal put on the table on 23 january this year for a directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the commission proposed that it will monitor, amongst other things, the commodity price changes associated with the use of biomass for energy and any associated positive and negative impacts on food security.
− first of all, i think we can see that renewable energies and biofuels have recently been the scapegoat for increased prices within the agricultural commodities sector.
but in europe we use less than 1% of our production area for renewable energies and that cannot have an influence on the price level that we see.
what is important is that we produce these renewable energies in a sustainable way and that we apply certain criteria to the different types of renewable energies.
i say ‘supposed’ rescue because i think we have to question whether the studied rewriting of the eff guidelines, and potentially the de minimis guidelines, can ensure that we have a sustainable fishing industry.
this ‘supposed rescue’ package will do little to ensure a sustainable fishing industry.
although i support capacity reduction – currently some community fisheries are at least 40% over capacity – i do not think this proposal will achieve the changes required to achieve a sustainable eu fishing sector.
the energy and climate packages become more urgent every day.
we need much more investment in renewable energy: small-scale and localised to bring household bills down, and large-scale, such as using the union for the mediterranean to invest in high-voltage solar thermal power production in north africa.
on tuesday the g8, which is the source of nearly two thirds of the world’s co2, approved an emissions-reduction target of 50%.
we are confident of your energy and your commitment and, having read a very good book recently, we are confident of your vision.
– mr president, having chaired the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia and having visited bangladesh, i would say that this is a fragile state which has faced more than its fair share of political, environmental, economic and social setbacks.
what more can we do to cut europe’s dependence on russia’s energy supplies?
and what will it take, with the eu now having made itself wittingly so dependent on russian energy, to eventually permit an effective response?
we cannot simply go ahead with these as if a russian monopoly on energy supply was perfectly normal.
we must use this opportunity now, through the eu’s common external energy security policy, to break moscow’s stranglehold on europe’s oil and gas supplies.
i was pleased that the commissioner, in line with her very strong commitment to consumers and the energy she has brought to this portfolio, wanted to seize this issue.
in february mr barroso brought to us a major package of measures to fight climate change.
today, the commission’s proposals on social policy demonstrate to its detractors that europe cares for community cohesion and that liberal economic policies need be no threat to progressive policies for a healthy environment and a society served by solidarity.
we also welcome the proposal on ‘new skills for new jobs’, and trust this really will link in with the climate change agenda, which also needs to look at new skills in old jobs, because most of the workforce have now passed the stage of formal education, making lifelong learning crucial.
we must ask how we are going to deliver the skills we actually need in order to make our climate change targets practicable.
issues like immigration, climate change and energy will take centre stage.
our people need to be assured that europe is part of the solution, and not part of the problem, when it comes to tackling the issues raised by globalisation, demographic change, climate change and other global challenges.
in the current post-irish referendum climate, how does council envisage processing applications such as these?
question no 4 by avril doyle (h-0534/08) subject: border adjustment measures (bams) on less carbon-efficient imports could the council please outline its views on border adjustment measures (bams) on less carbon-efficient imports from third countries in the post-2012 trading period of the eu ets?
the food and safety agency says: ‘there is no indication that differences exist in terms of food safety between food products from healthy cattle and pig clones and their progeny, compared with those from healthy, conventionally-bred animals.’ nor does it see any environmental risks – and there are benefits: safeguarding high-value animals and their genetics, conserving and even reintroducing endangered breeds, eliminating dangerous pathogens and their transfer internationally, improving productivity and competitivity, and encouraging research and development in europe rather than elsewhere.
the first item is the joint debate on– the report by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, and amending directive 67/548/eec and regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 (com(2007)0355 - c6-0197/2007 - 2007/0121(cod)) (a6-0140/2008),– the report by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending council directives 76/768/eec, 88/378/eec, 1999/13/ec and directives 2000/53/ec, 2002/96/ec and 2004/42/ec in order to adapt them to regulation (ec) … on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, and amending directive 67/548/eec and regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 (com(2007)0611 - c6-0347/2007 - 2007/0212(cod)) (a6-0142/2008), and – the report by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 648/2004 in order to adapt it to regulation (ec) no … on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, and amending directive 67/548/eec and regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 (com(2007)0613 - c6-0349/2007 - 2007/0213(cod)) (a6-0141/2008).
i understand that this is due to pressure from the influential environmental groups upon which the eu depends for so much of its support, and placing the welfare of non-human primates above that of humans, as expressed in amendment 40, is surely going too far to placate them, but finding anything deserving of a positive vote in the oppressive and obsessive process of eu legislation is a rarity worthy of note.
at a time when petrol prices in europe have doubled and citizens in europe and people around the world are ever more concerned about the effects of climate change, it is clear that we need new hope for future fuels.
with the help of the law, mass production is now predicted to start in europe by 2015, with around 5% of total eu road stock set to be hydrogen-powered by 2025. the environmental benefits of hydrogen cars will depend on the energy source used to produce the hydrogen.
they can directly tackle air pollution caused by petrol and will reduce our dependence on oil, but they will only help tackle global warming if hydrogen is produced in a sustainable way.
that is why i strongly back mrs weisgerber’s negotiated amendments to ensure hydrogen fuel is produced sustainably and, as far as possible, from renewable energy.
we support a more robust common external energy security policy under the cfsp with regard to russian oil and gas imports, but we do not see what difference the lisbon treaty would have made to managing this crisis.
nevertheless, hydrogen power can only be truly effective as a clean and green energy if the hydrogen comes from sustainable and, ideally, renewable sources, and this fact has been noted in the final report.
encouraging the entrance of hydrogen-powered vehicles into the internal market will contribute considerably to achieving europe's climate change targets.
this new law will help boost the development of these vehicles while ensuring they are reliable and safe, and measures included in this report will ensure that the maximum environmental benefits from hydrogen-powered vehicles can be achieved.
the relationship between aggregate consumption of oil through motor car use and that of increasing respiratory diseases, as well as concomitant rises in pollution, means that ‘next-generation’ vehicle design has to reflect this.
clearly, the aspect of hydrogen generation through the use of electricity raises wider considerations, including how to locate the energy for the generation of the original electricity.
product quality, animal welfare and environmental concerns should remain our priority in terms of food production.
at the last wto ministerial meeting just a few months ago in july in geneva, a group of latin american countries even circulated a proposal to remove health care, education, water, telecommunications and energy entirely from the wto, exactly on the basis that these are essentially public services and they are human rights which should not be treated as tradable commodities.
i purposely held this matter back for a month while i made sure that all views were taken fully into account – environmental issues, mrs lichtenberger; full liberalisation, mr evans.
we are trying to deal with industrial land and industrial pollution; we are talking about urban development and then about agricultural land and agricultural soils.
i would encourage member states that do not have controls over the use of industrial land and over pollution from industry to actually put those in place at the national level.
− i voted in support of frédérique ries’s report on the mid-term review of the european environment and health action plan 2004-2010. the call for the action plan to focus on indoor and outdoor air quality and chemicals has my backing.
for all producers or importers to be obliged to demonstrate the safety of their product before it can be put on the market is also a positive step to ensure that both consumers and the environment are adequately protected.
high fuel costs have been passed on to the farmer at the present time: costs are escalating and farmers are not receiving an increase to cover that cost of high energy and gas prices.
the essential thing europe and the european union has to remember at all times in these matters is that we are in a global environment.
− this report highlights the key role mountainous regions play in terms of the environment, agriculture and even culture and tourism.
most importantly, it is recognised that these areas are essential for maintaining pockets of biodiversity and the implementation of a forestry strategy.
of course, sheep farming is intricately linked to agriculture in these areas, and it must be recognised that sheep grazing is especially important for their environmental stability.
− i support this report looking at promoting sustainable development in mountainous regions.
where there are clear public benefits to supporting farming in mountainous regions, such as environmental benefits, i believe that public funding under the rural development pillar would be more appropriate.
exploiting the potential of mountainous areas is key to their sustainable development, not simply throwing more public money at them.
without doubt it does represent an improvement on the older itta agreement of 20 years ago which, although it was billed as an agreement promoting both trade and sustainability, is in reality very much about trade and not very much about sustainability.
for example, it still defines as its objective the promotion of the expansion of international trade, before moving on to speak in just a few words about sustainability.
in other words, for all the rhetoric about sustainability, the system is still designed to give greatest influence to those who trade the most.
parliament’s assent to any future agreement will depend on a radical change in the underlying objectives of the agreement towards the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests, with trade in tropical timber taking place only to the extent that it is consistent with that objective.
i welcome the fact that the revised international tropical timber agreement places a greater emphasis on sustainable management – for example by tackling illegal logging – and on the restoration and conservation of degraded forests.
as others have said, the preservation of tropical forests is vital in maintaining biodiversity and in our fight against climate change because, as we now know very well, tropical forests play a central role in removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
currently the felling of these forests is responsible for 20% of global carbon emissions.
i share caroline lucas’s objective in trying to ensure that the revised agreement does in reality give priority to social and environmental issues rather than solely focusing on increasing trade in tropical timber.
i would first like to recall that the 2006 agreement aims to promote the expansion of international trade in tropical timber from forests that are sustainably managed and harvested in accordance with the law and to encourage the sustainable management of tropical timber-producing forests.
and i liked the phrase "the cradle of biodiversity".
many colleagues have mentioned the link between deforestation and climate change, and i would like to add a final point about the climate package that colleagues will be voting on in the coming weeks.
you will know that deforestation is a key issue when it comes to the emissions trading system, and i want to urge colleagues not to be persuaded by arguments in favour of including so-called ‘sink credits’ in the emissions trading system.
we held a lunchtime debate about this today in which we underlined why putting deforestation into the emissions trading system is a bad idea for a host of reasons, not least that it would swamp the whole emissions trading system.
we certainly do need to tackle deforestation as part of the climate package, but we are arguing that that should be done by using the auctioning revenues to properly invest in those countries that have that issue.
– mr president, the whole climate change programme has given the eu yet another excuse to flex its muscles and show the world how important it is, claiming that this is an issue that nation states cannot deal with alone.
the 20 20 20 slogan is a typical example of a catchy phrase to work with: 20% of energy in the eu from renewable sources; a 20% reduction in carbon emissions – all by the year 2020. but you are missing the most important point: is any of this necessary?
we were told recently by the ipcc that 2 500 scientists were all in agreement that co2 was responsible for global warming and that we humans were the culprits.
climate change brings its own worries about adapting our lifestyles and about fuel costs in a very different world.
we face common challenges: the fight against terrorism – and in this context i hereby call for europol to grant india privileged status in the exchange of intelligence and the fight against terrorism – the need to protect the environment including the issue of climate change, and the importance of managing the benefits of globalisation.
i do believe our resolution should have focused more on major issues such as terrorism, climate change and the economic strengthening of this partnership, which i hope this summit will go some way towards tackling.
millions of hectares of tropical forest are lost annually and the resultant carbon emissions are bound to have a drastic effect on the planet.
− i welcome ms lucas’s report on the international tropical timber agreement 2006. a serious approach to preserving the environment requires an effective framework for consultation, international cooperation and policy development regarding the world timber economy.
i believe this report helps set the eu on the right track towards achieving a sustainable timber economy and i voted in favour of it.
we strongly support the calls for a reduction in administrative burdens, the pursuit of the lisbon strategy on growth and jobs, support for smes, further progress on completing the single market, measures to boost consumer rights, further action on climate change, cross-border health care initiatives and boosting relations with the united states.
this prices issue underlines the fundamentals of eu energy policy and the eu energy situation – the three pillars, namely: the essential need for truly competitive markets – markets which will deliver the lowest prices and the most efficient services; the security of supply issues in our dependence on imported fuels; and the convergence of sustainability objectives with the other two elements of our policy.
mr president, there are going to be radical changes in the way the eu produces and consumes its energy.
this has been based on a three-pronged strategy by the commission: security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness.
since the publication of the green paper on energy, socialists in this parliament have been asking for consumers to be put right back into the driving seat.
we want to see energy poverty as a part of this debate.
we know that energy prices have been rising exponentially and they are hitting the most vulnerable in our society the hardest.
i would like to give fair warning to the council that, in the negotiations on the electricity and gas directives that we are about to begin, the issue of energy poverty will be fundamental to our agreement.
we are asking for domestic action on this – not community action – but we do expect action for the poorest people in the eu on energy poverty.
mr president, during this debate colleagues from the socialist and green benches have referred to speculation and how unacceptable that is in terms of energy prices, and i agree with them.
i would ask them also to reflect on the political context of energy pricing, and in particular on the career of former german chancellor gerhard schroeder, currently employed by gazprom, who quite clearly is pursuing an interest which is nuclear-free, but as ari vatanen has reminded us, is not free of russian politics.
i should like to ask the council if it could explain in its reply the route map towards achieving a common energy policy in the eu, giving the timescale.
and i should like to ask the commissioner whether he has produced a table for the council of relative costings of oil and gas, for example from russia, as opposed to liquefied natural gas from qatar, nuclear energy, and all the others, because it seems to me that our governments are not actually producing energy at the prices that the consumers would want.
question no 38 by emmanouil angelakas (h-0612/08) subject: safety of nuclear power plant the european union is now being faced with the immediate problem of satisfying ever- increasing energy demand.
given that oil and, natural gas supplies and renewable sources of energies can only meet some of this demand, the major role of nuclear energy in resolving the problem is undeniable.
at the same time, european citizens are becoming particularly anxious about the safety of nuclear power plant and proper nuclear waste management, particularly following recent leaks of radioactive material from nuclear plant in france and slovenia.
finally, has it calculated the extent of eu dependency on nuclear energy in the near future?
question no 39 by liam aylward (h-0624/08) subject: investment in first generation, priority for second generation the turmes draft report (2008/0016/cod) on the proposal for a directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, currently making its way through parliamentary committees, is reconsidering the council and commission biofuel and renewable energy mandatory target in transport, because second generation research and development has not attained a breakthrough.
− i am happy to support the practical ideas contained in most of this resolution on rising energy prices.
in the medium term a shift to renewable sources of energy coupled with increased energy efficiency will help protect us from the inevitable swings in prices that come with reliance on fossil fuels, but in the here-and-now concrete action is needed to relieve and eradicate fuel poverty.
i do not agree, however, that liberalisation of the energy markets is part of the solution to rising prices.
− i voted for the joint motion for a resolution on ‘getting a grip on energy prices’.
rather, due to different levels of energy charges across the union, this is something that must and should be done at national level.
− i voted against the resolution on energy prices.
whilst i wholeheartedly agree that rising energy prices require affirmative political action, i reject the resolution’s references to ‘low carbon’ energy.
i reject the idea that increased nuclear energy can have a positive impact on the environment and believe that political attention should be focused on non-nuclear renewable energy sources.
− i welcome the positive vote today on recognising energy poverty and reducing vat for energy saving goods.
you must adopt the european pact on immigration and asylum – though we must still search for schemes to seek skilled newcomers and manage migration – and you should discuss progress in combating climate change.
it has peoples and nations, but it is also the focus of global climate change, with all its threats, challenges and opportunities.
yes, we have to protect the fragility of the arctic environment.
yes, we have to look at sustainable ways of developing resources in the arctic, specifically energy-based resources.
so it adds the words to recital d: ‘and which was not formulated with specific regard to the current circumstances of climate change and the unique consequences of melting ice in the arctic seas’.
− it was appalling to see ukip and certain british conservatives trying to prevent an oral amendment which would protect savers in the current economic climate.
mr president, given that improving energy efficiency is the most effective way of cutting co2 emissions, and given that the public sector, according to the 2006 directive, is supposed to play an exemplary role in this matter, i am disappointed that there have been no energy-efficiency improvements in connection with the major repairs carried out on the strasbourg parliament building.
i would like to know where the building’s energy performance certificate is displayed.
a single seat is how we could best cut our energy use and save eur 200 million a year.
but the environmental impact in particular of these trips in a year equate to, i am told, 13 000 transatlantic jumbo jet journeys – and this at a time when parliament itself is trying to impose draconian environmental regulation on european business.
i think it is very important that in the current climate we are actually making progress on workers’ rights, rather than trying to imply that those doing work on a temporary basis are somehow less important as individuals or less important economically.
we know that climate change has caused the north sea to warm up by one and a half degrees and the fighter plankton that the cod larvae feed on have moved hundreds of miles north, which is why most of the big mature cod that we buy in the shops anywhere in europe comes from around norway, the faroes and iceland.
i am delighted, in that case, that i have heard the commissioner this evening say that he accepts my amendment that will at least look at the impact of climate change on cod recovery, as well as looking at the impact on cod predation by seals.
(applause)why in all the paragraphs on climate change is there no mention whatsoever of the european parliament?
it is dishonest of some governments to say that the new economic climate makes those agreements unachievable.
new emissions targets for the car industry will not be in force until 2012: the emission-sharing proposals apply only after 2013, long after the global economy is forecast to pick up.
postponing action now will invite climate catastrophe and an even bigger bill.
president sarkozy, it was your own energy, dynamism and initiative that sent you off to georgia and russia to try and broker a deal.
what he said this morning on climate change is extremely important, and he was right to remind mr nassauer that now is not the time to abandon our climate change ambitions and to water down the proposals before us.
i do not know why we are even discussing the importance of codecision: there will be no climate change package without the codecision of this parliament.
we want a credible agreement; we want one that balances environment, jobs and competitiveness.
we know that individual countries have problems – and we can talk about them – but we need to have a package that is credible for the international talks, not one based on offsets in other countries because that is not a credible package, and not one which dismantles the emissions trading scheme and destroys the carbon price.
mr nassauer talked about the cost of the climate change package.
of course, there is a cost which the commission has worked out for the package, but i do not want to go back to our citizens in a few years time and say that, because we failed to act here and now on climate change, billions more will need to be found.
(applause)
madam president, to the president-in-office, but now in absentia, i would say: you spoke eloquently this morning about the challenge to our economic future, which is rightly at the top of our agenda, but no less rightly and no less eloquently you made it clear at the summit, and again today, that your intention is to maintain the timetable and the targets for tackling climate change.
the climate change package, you said, is so important that we cannot simply lose it under the pretext of a financial crisis.
it was very significant that chancellor merkel, despite the real concerns her country and others have, made it clear that germany spoke out in favour of implementing the climate change targets and finding solutions before the december summit.
we must also be very clear that our support for biofuels in transport is dependent on the development of fuels from sustainable sources.
without that, we could do irreparable damage to our environment and to the habitats of people, wildlife and plant life.
an environmental disaster would make our current economic problems pale into insignificance.
in terms of energy policy, that means sticking to strategic aims on security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness, while considering whether we need to change the tactics, the means.
energy is vital to our way of life and standard of living.
in the same vein, tackling climate change is a long-term matter, and there is no silver bullet or simple solution.
as regards tactics, there are those who have reservations about the level and timing of the targets within the climate-energy package.
there are those who were anxious about carbon leakage or the offshoring of european jobs, well before the financial crisis.
in the current climate of food shortages and extremely challenging times for fishermen, this can only be described as a totally illogical and wasteful practice.
climate change and the impact of global warming may have more to do depleted stocks than fishermen simply trying to make a living out of this industry.
- as regards plant protection products, a 'pesticides' package is currently on the council's table and aims to revise the regulation on the placing of these products on the market and a directive on their sustainable use.
the aim is to ensure that the use of pesticides is compatible with the preservation of the environment and the protection of health and, of course, the impact of the package on the resistance of harmful organisms must be taken into account.
this position provides that the approval of active substances used in pesticides will be subject to an examination of the hazards and risks to human and animal health and the environment.
what, for example, are potato-growers in northern europe with their wet climate to do when there is no substitute to deal with potato blight?
mr president, this directive is very welcome because it puts legal flesh on previous proposals in the 2006 directive and in the commission’s action plan on energy efficiency.
public procurement has a vital role to play, not only through leading by example, but also because big contracts stimulate mass production and therefore bring down the cost of energy-efficient vehicles.
to conclude, i hope that this directive will serve as a stepping stone towards a comprehensive proposal on limiting co2 emissions from commercial vehicles.
(loud applause)
mr president, i voted against the joint motion on the european council summit because of its duplicity over the irish referendum and its foolish clinging to economically damaging climate-change targets.
now here we all are facing a deep economic crisis, the worst most of us can remember, and the eu is worried about keeping the deck-chairs of climate targets in place.
mr president, the eplp welcomes the content of this joint resolution and motion regarding the financial climate and the broader economy.
we also support the eu maintaining its commitments regarding climate change.
the financial crisis should not mean that we abandon our international obligations to tackle climate change and fight poverty.
it is of crucial importance to know not only how much money was spent on implementing various programmes but to ensure that the eu citizens enjoy tangible and sustainable benefits as well.
question no 51 by stavros arnaoutakis (h-0713/08) subject: high quality transport and small island regions of the european union what steps will the commission take to ensure that the european union has sustainable and high quality transport systems and to protect the rights of its citizens and their safety?
the stress caused by intense congestion, the high level of pollution and journeys within towns, which are responsible for 40% and more of total co2 emissions from road transport, together with the lack of safety for drivers and vulnerable groups, such as pedestrians and cyclists, are just some of the problems encountered every day by european citizens in major towns and cities.
what are the commission's objectives and plan of action in response to this situation so that more sustainable forms of urban transport may be established and what timetable has it set for measures to achieve its objectives?
they are our priority, as – equally – is the environment, which i think is addressed by this report.
i think all the original concerns that we wanted to address have been covered, and, as a package, it does provide the balance – in the interests of airlines and in the interests of passengers – that we were looking for, whilst allowing the airports sufficient freedom to operate in a competitive environment.
this is not sustainable.
agriculture and the rural environment are one and the same and we have to move to make sure that we deal with climate change and the management of water, that we look at biofuels and biogas and that we really put europe in a good position.
it needs to move away from the old direct subsidy route to a system that is market orientated and that values rural sustainability and the environment, and recognises efficient farming instead of propping up inefficient farming.
we need to bring the reform of the structural funds particularly into this discussion, because the cap as it stands is overcomplicated, convoluted and difficult to get public support for, whereas the structural funds would be a much cheaper, more effective way to deliver public environmental goods.
− this report recognises the need to reduce emissions from fossil fuels which will be used to bridge the gap until we can become reliant upon renewable energy sources, which is why i support it.
liberal democrats are not going to waste time looking for the guy who failed to spot the iceberg: we will concentrate on getting people into lifeboats.
even with the recession, world gdp is forecast to double in the next 20 years, and yet that growth is based on finite resources, on failing to factor in the cost of waste, and on another coal-fired power station in china every week.
one of them was about sustainability.
it said that internationally coordinated macroeconomic responses, based on promotion of environmental investments, including in developing countries, are important.
but that did not get into the agreed language which passed for the conclusions of the preparatory summit, which talked only about climate change in one sentence in a list of other challenges.
nor did it get into the g20 conclusions, other than as the penultimate point in the penultimate point, which talked about examples of other critical challenges, mentioning climate change as no 2. there is no contradiction between keynes and fighting climate change.
now, perhaps some would say that we have not one crisis, but several: financial, of course, but environmental facing up to climate change, confidence in europe after the irish vote, and security after the recent events in georgia.
in the field of energy, we have a pretty good idea of things that need to be done, but most of them are on a timescale well beyond the next year or two, so perhaps the only area where swift action – which could help – could be taken is in the field of energy efficiency measures.
specifically, allowing lower vat for improvements in the energy efficiency of buildings and launching an information campaign to encourage a change in people’s behaviour are two specific ways to help the situation.
i went to see some small businesses two weeks ago – successful companies supplying aerospace, automotive, energy industries.
of course, the other people who can help us are those public investors, the people who are keeping and sustaining projects and construction, sustainable building, buying greener vehicles and particularly investing in the next generation of telecom networks.
i notice that in section 3 of your legislative and work programme for 2009, a very important section entitled ‘better regulation – delivery on promises and change of regulatory culture’, there is a comment that ‘a simpler and better regulatory environment without unnecessary administrative burdens will, therefore, remain a key component of the commission’s legislative work’.
it is very clear that everything relating to freedom, freedom of religion, the need to take the necessary measures to establish a climate of tolerance to ensure full respect for freedom of religion, has been discussed and is at the centre of this dialogue with the turkish authorities.
our car manufacturers lead the world for environmental awareness, technical standards and innovation.
nobody would dispute the importance of environmental protection, but i am extremely concerned that, in our rush to prove our green credentials, we are sometimes in danger of destroying a very important and successful industry.
in the mean time, it causes environmental destruction because output-based subsidies encourage the felling of hedgerows and the use of pesticides and unfriendly fertilisers, and of course causes terrible starvation in africa.
companies throughout europe should be able to operate in an environment free from excessive burdens.
i think the text before us has a number of concrete actions which would take us in that direction – particularly apicultural set-aside, biodiversity zones, even alongside roads and unproductive land, research on pesticides, surface water and considering of aid.
this neatly sums up british membership of the european union: a complete and utter total waste of money.
environmental legislation is something that most people – perhaps all people – in this chamber are in favour of – perhaps even including ukip, who are apparently not here and are perhaps ironing their union jacks.
we, in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, are still in favour of having a directive rather than a recommendation.
i do not, myself, see why we could not have a general directive regarding environmental inspections and specific rules attached to specific directives where that is appropriate.
let me then turn to the question of an eu environmental inspection force.
it is extraordinary that nine years after the landfill directive came into force, spain is now being prosecuted before the european court of justice for having 60 000 illegal landfills, taking up more than half-a-million tonnes of illegally dumped waste.
the commission often finds that its prosecutions before the court of justice on environmental matters are initiated by private citizens.
we should tell the people of europe that we cannot be sure that the environmental legislation which we are adopting is being complied with.
given the fact that we are now looking at climate change legislation, that is very serious.
we must return to the issue of an eu environmental inspection force, which i fully support.
the recession is smothering businesses and climate change grows ever more stark.
the council will, of course, search for a legally binding framework to cut carbon emissions.
cap and trade, not regulation and burden, derogations for small-scale emitters, sensitivity to individual states’ circumstances and a sliding scale for carbon auctioning – all these are reasonable.
if we do not tackle climate change now, the bill will balloon.
there will be costs in a climate-change deal, but there are opportunities too.
the council has a full agenda: the economic and financial crisis, the lisbon treaty, climate change and the future of the cap.
mr president, as rapporteur of reports on the enp, i have long supported israel’s increased involvement in eu programmes and agencies, which is mutually beneficial, given israel’s advanced status as a country in areas such as scientific and in particular environmental research.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on steps towards improving the environment for smes in europe – small business act by nicole fontaine and giles chichester, on behalf of the ppe-de group, and edit herczog, on behalf of the pse group (o-0113/2008 – b6-0485/2008).
mr president, the title of this question speaks about improving the environment for smes.
if that's true, next time you take the train, it would allow you to be here on time and preserve your environmental reputation.
mr president, the union may be days away from an historic breakthrough in combating climate change.
in march of last year they agreed to a 20% cut in carbon emissions by 2020 and now we hear the shuffling of cold feet in the council.
as you have said, mr president, climate change is the greatest challenge facing us.
although there are some who yelp that they cannot afford to cut carbon emissions as they agreed, it is irresponsible of italy to claim that it would push up power bills by 17.5%.
renewable energy generation will bring down bills, and will save us not only money but lives.
we are about to embark on a real market-led cap and trade system, one that would be sensitive to the needs of member states while still achieving its goals, but we need the council to reaffirm the commitment to 20% renewable energy by 2020; we need the council to map out the route to accountable and transparent effort-sharing in those areas not covered by the emissions trading scheme; and we need the council to commit to the research that will unleash the potential of green technologies like carbon capture and storage.
we must act to make sure that a combination of industrial lobbying and national self-interest, which has cost us progress on car emissions, does not blight next week's historic opportunity.
europe has a chance to lead the world in the quest to cut carbon emissions, to bring about real change to the benefit of future generations.
mr president, we are undoubtedly facing the greatest crisis that i have seen in my lifetime, but the threat is posed not by global warming but by our policy responses to global warming.
it is certainly true that the earth has warmed slightly and intermittently over the last 150 years, but that change is entirely consistent with well-established, long-term natural climate cycles established over thousands of years.
it now appears we are moving into a new 21st century climate optimum.
it is true that carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, although a much less important greenhouse gas than water vapour, but the effect of co2 climate forcing is non-linear.
our unachievable renewables targets, especially with regard to wind energy, actually threaten to cut off supplies of electricity.
even if the west cuts emissions, clearly the emerging markets of china and india will not.
i am the pse group’s shadow for the emissions trading scheme and we want a number of things.
we want identified funding to tackle climate change mitigation.
we need clear criteria on carbon leakage to give certainty to our businesses and to make sure they are not disadvantaged.
to be honest, they are pretty sceptical about europe leading on climate change and they made it very clear that, if we do not lead, they have their own plans.
let us not make that same mistake on climate change.
you will know that i am speaking here in particular of carbon capture and storage.
i think the council really has to appreciate just how much potential this technology has to make a huge difference in abating co2 emissions into the atmosphere.
if we are to secure an international agreement, if we are to lock china in – which gets 80% of its electricity from coal – we have got to deal with the problem of big power stations, big fossil-fuel, carbon dioxide-generating power stations.
mr president, i share the anger and frustration of all those who are rightly criticising people in this parliament and council who are trying to destroy our commitments to an ambitious climate and energy package.
all this means that the eu’s climate package is looking increasingly empty, and europe’s politicians will not be forgiven for such a monumental failure of political leadership.
we do not have to choose between tackling the economic crisis and tackling the climate crisis.
we should be using the financial crisis as an opportunity to completely reshape the focus and direction of our economy, to make it a genuinely sustainable economy which will actually deliver environmental and economic benefits.
mr president, thanks to the determination of the rapporteur, we have made huge progress in the negotiations on renewable energy.
i am also pleased that member states will be required to push energy efficiency in order to achieve their renewables targets more easily.
at this point we must keep our nerve on the renewables directive – as indeed on the entire climate package.
i was principally involved on behalf of the ppe-de group in mr sacconi’s report on car co2 emissions, and took part in the trialogue, and i would like to pay tribute to his work in helping to secure an agreement on this legislation.
that legislation has now been agreed and it ensures that we can encourage the vehicle manufacturers to move towards producing cleaner, greener and more efficient cars, but hopefully doing so in a sustainable way that will not cost jobs and prosperity in the industry.
global warming is bringing new diseases, mosquitoes carrying malaria and dengue fever into that region.
at the acp meeting we looked at the consequences of failing to prevent and failing to manage climate change.
to be acceptable to parliament, the package of measures must be sufficiently vigorous for us to achieve the agreed eu targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions and a 20% increase in renewables by the year 2020 – but also to enable us to go further and raise this up to 30% in the event of an international agreement.
i am also pleased that there seems to be agreement that the biofuels target should be subject to strict sustainability criteria.
the current economic climate is acutely affecting them, whether it is difficulties with maintaining cash flow or the impact of reduced consumer spending.
– mr president, the working time directive is a waste of time.
this proposal is absolutely crucial in that it paves the way for a global standard for heavy vehicle engine emissions.
the regulatory climate we are proposing needs to encourage this, and we also want the commission to ensure that this regulation becomes the global regulation as well, which is part of the package on the table today.
− i voted in favour of the groote report and welcome europe-wide action to limit emissions from heavy duty vehicles.
the report will see a reduction of the particle mass by 66% and nox emissions by 80%.
i support this report because of the balance it strikes between co2 emissions and associated emission reductions.
(laughter)president-in-office, i imagine you would not have chosen the challenges which confronted your presidency, but you have tackled them with energy, with enthusiasm and with creativity, and you have shown the power of european solidarity.
liberal democrats urge ecofin to cut vat now on energy-saving and renewable energy equipment, in order to help industry and the environment.
we also welcome the renewed commitment to sustainable public finances and a rapid return to medium-term budgetary targets.
it is, however, on climate change that you may be more harshly judged.
a blizzard of corporate concessions has been written into the council conclusions; new member states will be bought off with a solidarity slush fund; cap-and-trade emissions permits will be given away when they should have been auctioned, and major players like electricity companies will get derogations that amount to super-subsidies.
all of this pushes down the cost of carbon, cuts the cash raised and makes the emissions targets harder to hit.
what is more, the emissions trading system will not even come into effect until 2013. nonetheless, my group recognises your achievement in reaching that deal.
we welcome the agreements on energy saving, on earmarking half the revenues from emissions to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions and on carbon capture and storage.
– mr president, mr sarkozy has brought energy and dynamism to his presidency, but made clear at all stages that he wants more power for the union and that he wants the lisbon treaty.
we also recall his determination to secure a deal on the vital climate change and energy package, which is something that british conservatives fully support, even though i regret we cannot offer the same support to the lisbon treaty.
we believe that the eu should continue to take a lead in relation to climate matters.
mr president, the french presidency has indeed faced many challenges, though it is debatable whether the recent council adequately addressed the challenge of combating climate change.
so we must emphasise the importance of europe’s working with the new administration in january, so that we have a united front to the great challenges such as climate change and the financial crisis.
– mr president, i am disappointed that there has been a loosening of emission-reduction requirements in part of the climate package.
the eu needs to set its course firmly towards a low-carbon future; otherwise it will be overtaken by other countries that are now keen to make up for lost time.
but on the renewable energy directive, parliament has succeeded in persuading member states to embrace the need for radical change in the way we source our energy.
for the renewable energy industry, the directive offers legal certainty and the sweeping away of barriers to progress such as connection to the grid.
i am relieved that the final text protects land with high biodiversity and high carbon stock and that the requirement on greenhouse gas savings has been increased from the commission’s original proposal of 35% up to 60% for new installations from 2017. crucially, the effects of indirect land-use change will now be factored into the calculation on greenhouse gas savings, and biofuels with no risk of side effects will receive a bonus.
mr president, in these days when we are all concerned about energy security it is clearly right that we should pursue renewable energy, but that renewable energy must be both environmentally and economically sustainable.
in this context, i am very worried about the rapid dash for wind energy, especially in my own country, where we have established over-optimistic and wholly unachievable targets for wind.
there is a great deal of embedded energy in the fabrication, construction, transportation and erection of wind turbines.
- the mr president, the european council's results on the proposal to revise the european union's emissions trading system are very satisfactory, especially considering how complex and technical the system is.
when the commission put forward its proposal a year ago, it aimed to improve and extend the emissions trading system so that it could make a significant contribution to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions in the european union and to make it the core, the model for other greenhouse gas trading systems around the world.
the compromise agreement retains all relevant elements of the proposal and in particular the overall carbon dioxide emission ceiling with the linear reduction in order to achieve the overall 20% reduction target.
the compromise proposal fully preserves the environmental integrity and targeting of the proposal, and also addresses the concerns and concerns of industry by ensuring certainty on a long-term basis and by incorporating specific provisions for industries at risk of relocation due to the absence of an international agreement to limit emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
of all the dossiers in the climate package – and i support them all – that is the one that has been the most difficult to tackle.
we are going to vote on a package that is balanced, which balances the environment with jobs.
yes, we have made some concessions on auctioning, but the auctioning is the ‘how’ – it is not the ‘whether’ – we tackle climate change.
these are tough targets for industry and we are, as the commission has said, the first group of countries in the world to have such a comprehensive emissions trading scheme.
tomorrow i hope we will make that decision, we will start the walk towards copenhagen and along the way we will get some other people to join us and, at the end of the day, deliver a climate change package that is worthy of the effort that has been put into this by everybody in this house.
and scandalously looking at the package as a whole, well over half of that utterly inadequate emissions reduction could in any case be outsourced to developing countries.
meanwhile the emissions trading system is itself being turned into a windfall profit machine for europe’s most polluting industries.
instead of learning from the first phases of the ets, we appear to be creating laws that would subsidise these industries and delay still further our transition to a more sustainable economy.
not when that compromise means that sectors representing fully 96% of the non-power emissions are to be given 100% free allocation of permits.
not when that means the carbon price will be driven so low that there will be nothing like the necessary stimulus for investment in green energy alternatives.
this is not a day for celebration: it is a day to reflect on how much more is needed to generate the political will to stand a chance of avoiding the worst of climate chaos.
because we have been hurried along in accordance with a false timetable we have omitted our responsibility to ensure that there is a complete assessment of the impact of the climate change package by impartial authorities.
for example, i was the rapporteur recently on the waste framework directive.
it promotes the idea of energy-efficient combined heat and power stations, but such plants may be penalised under the revised ets.
if climate change is so important, we need a much more active approach to implementation than has been the case on environmental policies anywhere so far, and we have heard nothing about that.
madam president, one of the achievements of these negotiations has been to establish a funding mechanism for carbon catchment storage demonstration projects and i shall refer to this later.
the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 17 december 2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by satu hassi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the effort of member states to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to meet the community’s greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments up to 2020 (com(2008)0017 - c6-0041/2008 - 2008/0014(cod)) (a6-0411/2008).
mr president, european citizens are gravely concerned about the effects of climate change and support a low-carbon, clean energy provision for our future.
for them, job security has certainly become a more pressing issue than global warming and renewable energy, at least for now.
we cannot allow the state of europe’s economies, nevertheless, to push climate change off the agenda.
on the whole, i believe that this package – the ‘triple 20’ climate change package – reflects this dilemma and it reduces the risk that european industries will have to relocate abroad to less restrictive jurisdictions.
the city of london, which i represent, is also very keen to trade carbon permits under the ets.
taking a common approach to addressing climate change is also at the heart of my party’s approach to the european union under david cameron, who is our party leader, and hopefully the next prime minister of britain.
− mr president, the potential for carbon capture and storage technology to achieve vast reductions and abatement in co2 emissions into the atmosphere is something we simply must grasp.
i would like us to move straight to a different age, one where our power comes from renewable, clean and green forms of energy.
it is soaring ahead with renewable energy programmes and, yet, it is also expanding its coal-fired power stations week in, week out.
the co2 emissions from that one power station will be the equivalent of those saved by every single wind-farm we currently have in the country.
the international energy agency says that by 2050 it could be responsible for abating up to 50% of the emissions that would otherwise take place on a business-as-usual scenario.
people were dubious about the proposal to use allowances from the new entrant reserve of the emissions trading scheme.
how much that will raise depends on the carbon price.
mr president, carbon capture and storage has become a central feature of this debate on fighting climate change and i am certainly also in favour of exploring and developing this technology.
the only way to move forward with ccs research without allowing this to happen is by adopting a clear emissions performance standard and that is why the verts/ale group has tabled an amendment to control the level of emissions from new fossil-fuel power stations.
there has been tremendous pressure to come to a conclusion on this, but it has to be the right conclusion, and for us that certainly means including an emissions performance standard.
− mr president, when i became parliament’s rapporteur i resolved to go beyond my brief and try and accelerate the development of carbon capture and storage technology.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety adopted a twin-track approach: one was to put in place a financial mechanism to support the construction of demonstration projects, and the second was to introduce a regulatory means of preventing the construction of the dirtiest power plants by means of an emissions performance standard.
one good argument against the introduction of emissions performance standards at this time is that ccs technology first needs to be tested and proven.
i remain convinced that we will eventually need an emissions performance standard.
to the critics of carbon capture and storage technology, i say this: just get real!
just look at the world as it is, the enormous quantities of coal being used and the fact that the international energy agency is predicting a 70% increase in coal use over the next 20 years.
i do not want it – it is not my ideal – but we need to develop something that can deal with emissions on this massive scale.
ccs technology may provide us with a huge weapon to help us win the fight against global warming.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs corbey, and the french presidency for their tremendous efforts in securing agreement on this ground-breaking dossier as part of the fight against climate change.
ultimately, the agreement reached on this report, and the closely linked turmes report on renewable energy, are ones which we in the agricultural world can be very satisfied with.
i believe that there is a future for the sustainable biofuel industry and that these two directives provide the necessary legal framework for the industry to develop to allow in the future a transition to more second-generation biofuels.
i welcome the fact that we are now committed to a target of a 20% share of renewable energy in the eu overall energy mix.
mr president, when you consider the ambitions we had just a few months ago for reducing co2 emissions from cars, these proposals are deeply disappointing.
they let down the environment, they let down car drivers, who are going to be forced to pay more to use vehicles which use excessive quantities of fuel, and they even let down the european car industry, which will be at risk of being overtaken by more innovative competitors.
and, given that the international energy agency has just predicted that oil reserves across the world will peak within 10 years, it might even be described as completely mad.
mr president, at the end of the five-hour debate on the climate and energy package yesterday, the house was given a considered response on behalf of the presidency by minister borloo and on behalf of the commission by commissioner dimas and commissioner piebalgs.
(applause)
mr president, i am not one to be carried away by much of the hysteria over energy and climate change, but pursuing renewable energy has to be eminently sensible.
however, it must be economically sustainable.
on that basis, i am far from convinced about the rush to wind energy through unachievable targets.
but my primary observation on this report is to support the move away from agro-fuel and the focus of biomass on waste streams, not food.
turning agricultural, domestic and industrial waste into energy has always seemed to me to be the most sensible of all the renewable options.
thus development of the third generation of energy from biomass and biogas has my full support.
mr president, i think all of us in this house agree on the need to reduce harmful gases, whether you believe in the concept of global warming and the threat to the earth or whether you just want to reduce pollution.
− i welcome the turmes report on energy produced from renewable sources, yet i realise that to reach the target will be difficult.
− i voted in favour of the turmes report on renewable energy.
my own country, scotland, is rich in renewable energy sources such as wind and tidal power.
it is essential that europe takes the lead in promoting renewable energy – and i envisage an independent scotland being at the very heart of global development of renewable technologies.
− i voted for this proposal because i believe it sends an important signal about the need for a transformation of energy production to non-fossil and less polluting fuels within the eu and beyond.
energy efficiency must also now be included in the renewables action plans of the member states.
they need really to take on board the realities of climate change and use this directive as a basis for a move towards a low-carbon future.
− i voted in favour of this report which strengthens our obligations for renewables targets, presenting a major opportunity to boost indigenous sources of energy in the eu, tackle climate change, enhance security of supply and promote competitiveness, growth and jobs.
i supported this report because it has a review clause assessing by 2014 the impacts of increased use of renewable transport fuels which ensures that by reducing our co2 emissions, we are having not having an adverse effect on food prices or land use.
the report states a 5% target for renewable transport fuels by 2015, with a sub target of 20% to promote the use of electric cars.
in 2020, the target increases to 10% renewable transport fuels and 40% subtarget for the use of electric and hydrogen cars.
the report includes strict sustainability criteria so that this report really can produce positive change and reductions in emissions which is why i support it.
− this report represents a revolution in the way we produce energy in the eu.
the target of 20% renewable energy by 2020 is extremely ambitious but necessary if we are to win the fight against climate change.
the 10% target for road transport fuels is a vital part of this package and of the efforts to achieve the eu's goal of a low carbon economy.
− the report is an important step in forcing member states to meet their renewable targets.
renewable energy is vital to our fight against climate change.
we now have a scheme that other countries can join and use to help drive down their emissions – if they limit the pre-auction elements and set ambitious targets.
it must be used to help the transformation to a low-carbon, sustainable economy, which the world needs.
− i support this proposal which balances ambitious climate change goals with the need to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and to protect jobs.
for normal industry the switch to fully auctioned allowances will occur in 2020. i voted in favour of this report because it makes auctioning the general allocation principle, limits the amount of cdm/ji project credits that an installation can purchase to offset its emissions and still protects companies against carbon leakage.
− i am supporting this report, as i believe that the environmental integrity of the ets has been maintained and is a considerable improvement on the current system, as the polluter in future will pay for the right to emit through the auctioning of permits.
the objective of reducing emissions from europe's power stations and heavy industry by at least 20% by 2020 is maintained, and this will automatically rise to a 30% reduction if there is an international agreement at the un climate talks in copenhagen in december 2009. i also believe that a balance has been achieved between jobs and the environment, which in an economic downturn is vitally important.
− the objective of cutting emissions from europe’s power stations and heavy industry by at least 20% by 2020 and for this to increase to 30% if there is an international agreement at the un climate talks in copenhagen in december 2009 should be welcomed.
there is now a reference to a 30% binding target for greenhouse gas reductions in the legislative text: the science says this is the minimum necessary by 2020. financing of greenhouse gas reductions in developing countries is to work to a +2-degrees target: let us hope those countries actually see some real money rather than nice promises.
we now have a deadline on the introduction of a maritime emissions reduction target and many other small, but positive moves.
− i support this report which sets out binding targets for member states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in areas of the economy not covered by the ets system, which represents real progress for a comprehensive system.
the report includes an additional 'external emission reduction commitment' which will provide financial support for developing countries to reduce their emissions, so that no country is left behind and developing countries receive the financial support that they need in order for universal action on climate change to be most effective.
− i voted in favour of mr davies’ report on carbon dioxide storage.
ccs is an emerging technology and further research is essential for an evaluation of its potential in combating global warming.
− i voted in favour of this report which will ensure a high degree of safety for human health and the environment.
this is important not only for safeguarding the environment, but also for giving investors legal certainty in developing new projects.
however it is important that this report does not cause us to diverge from the main goal: further deployment of renewables and the improvement of energy efficiency.
− the inclusion in this report of a eur 9 bn fund to clean up coal-fired power stations through the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs) will offer exciting opportunities for the welsh coal industry.
europe has a critical role to play in the global reduction of greenhouse gasses and the implementation of binding obligations on fuel suppliers will form an important part of those reductions.
− i voted in favour of the sacconi report on co2 emissions from new cars.
whilst the compromise does not go as far as it ideally could, it nevertheless does set important targets for car manufacturers and will play a part in combating global warming.
− i voted in favour of this regulation which is a key part of the eu’s climate change package and sets for the first time legal requirements for manufacturers to reduce emissions of co2 from all cars sold in the eu (regardless of where they are manufactured).
the average new car fleet should achieve co2 emissions of 120g co2/k from 2012. this target is broken down to 130g co2/km by means of improvement in motor technology and the additional 10g should come from ‘eco-innovations’ such as new air conditioning designs.
− carbon from transport constitutes 21% of our carbon emissions.
− i voted to support the legislation as amended, both on this proposal to reduce emissions of co2 from cars and on the entire climate change package.
this is an important step to ensure that europe meets its targets to cut emissions by 20% by 2020 and will send a strong message to the rest of the world ahead of next year's talks in copenhagen that europe means business.
− i voted in favour of the climate change package because i believe that the world is at a crucial juncture.
the environmental effectiveness of the system is not in question.
instead we have struck a workable balance – between the need for industry to continue to profit in difficult economic times, the social needs of europe, and the future of our environment.
question no 35 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0966/08) subject: investment in energy infrastructures the economic and financial crisis is affecting many of the member states.
investment in energy infrastructures is one of the means available to europe for tackling the economic crisis.
if there is to be sufficient investment in energy infrastructures, either the member states will need to be able to draw on a bigger ten-t budget or their budget deficits will increase for a certain period of time.
what measures is the commission envisaging in order to support member states, in this period of economic and financial crisis, in their efforts to achieve a significant increase in investment in energy infrastructures?
yet multinational corporations in their search to maximise profits create a climate that encourages the production of counterfeit goods and public acceptance of the process.