i would also like to mention the needle pollution issue, which we are preparing a proposal to amend the directive on, and which we will present in 2008. i would like to thank the house again for this debate and for the adoption of mrs willmott's report.
the co-legislators, the council and the parliament decided to split the original proposal into two separate regulations, one amending regulation no 11 on transport based on article 75 (3), which does not provide for any involvement of the european parliament in the legislative procedure and on which the committee on transport has delivered its opinion, and another amending the regulation on food hygiene based on articles 95 and 152, 4b) on which the committee on the environment is due to deliver its opinion shortly.
i take this opportunity to call on the many member states which are still lagging behind in the practical application of this measure not to waste any more time.
the possibility of an integrated and coordinated approach to child protection at european level - thanks also to the many interesting proposals from the commission - is necessary to consider the child not as a victim but as the holder of positive rights and obligations, who must grow up in a healthy family environment and have his material and intellectual needs met.
- madam president, the commission has so far addressed the issue of carbon dioxide emissions from its activities through the environmental management and control system, better known as emas, whose rules it complies with.
however, the commission has not currently set overall co2 reduction targets, but under emas, the commission is studying and analysing its overall co2 emissions and will set overall co2 reduction targets within 2008. in particular, as regards its car fleet, the commission has already set a target of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 26% on average between 2006 and 2012.
member of the commission.
we should practise what we preach, and this is what we are going to do in 2008. i expect the commission and its services will target a reduction in emissions to at least the same level as we are requesting of the member states.
as you know, we have set a 30% reduction target, provided that other developed countries follow, or a 20% target if they do not sign up to an international agreement on reducing emissions.
by the way, we will have to conduct a study to determine the exact quantity of emissions from the commission, before setting targets and a timetable, and also establishing an action plan to combat emissions.
regarding my official car, i did the following thing, because i expected questions like this: i asked wwf, who have 10 sustainable top projects, to recommend me a car which is the most sustainable, and they recommended one for me and this is what i am using for my services.
now, again i would not like to tell you, but travelling to bali i offset my going there by purchasing from one of those schemes – i think it was the allowances from the emissions trading system – and these are then cancelled.
regarding the buildings and the services of the commission, we should try to use renewables as much as we can, because the main source of emissions from the commission is from the buildings.
almost three quarters come from the buildings, so if we can find ways to use renewable energy for our services, that will be very good; but this has to be studied in the action plan that i told you about before.
statistics show that products of unknown origin notified through rapex were, for the first time, down to 3% in october 2007, as compared to 17% in 2006. the commission is currently analysing, with the help of the member states, how to ensure that this improvement is not only temporary, and how to make it sustainable.
− rising energy prices, especially fuel and food, are a global problem, and in this context, of course, also for the european union.
− the european union should make the decisive contribution of european exchanges of good practice, given that it is the member states that are responsible for developing an appropriate and sustainable family policy.
- in answering this question, i will focus on the energy aspects, because that is how we understood the question.
the european council adopted an energy policy for europe in march 2006. the three main policy objectives of this policy are: first, to increase security of supply, to ensure the competitiveness of european economies and the availability of affordable energy supplies, and third, to promote environmental sustainability and to address climate change.
in line with these three policy objectives, the council, within the framework of the external dimension of energy policy, works closely with third countries in implementing and further developing its energy programme.
international energy policy is also one of the priority areas identified by the european council in its conclusions of march 2007. the european council stressed in this context the need to make full use of existing instruments to strengthen the european union's bilateral cooperation with all suppliers.
as regards the western balkans, the main existing instrument in the field of energy cooperation is the energy community treaty.
the aim of this agreement is to extend the energy market already existing in the european community to the countries of this region, i.e.
in addition, any stabilisation and association agreement concluded by the european union with the western balkan countries provides for close cooperation in the field of energy.
in short, in developing new energy initiatives, in the context of the european union's relations with third countries, we are seeking to make full use of existing mechanisms, both with regard to the western balkan countries, where i mentioned the energy community treaty, and with regard to existing mechanisms available to us under the european neighbourhood policy.
i would like to ask the presidency whether it intends to give priority to the institutionalisation of interregional cooperation between the european union and the organisation for economic cooperation and development, and in particular whether this cooperation is to be intensified in the energy sector, a sector which is of vital importance for southern europe.
the development of maritime links and road transport and corridors, as well as cooperation in the energy sector, while promoting sustainable development, are of particular importance.
in the prevailing climate of violence and insecurity all the armed groups present in the eastern democratic republic of congo, including elements of the national armed forces, are to some extent involved in the dramatic rise of these types of acts.
the ongoing conference on peace, security and development in the kivus, coupled with the recent agreement reached between the democratic republic of congo and rwanda in nairobi in november 2007, could indeed represent a significant step forward in the process, while acknowledging that there are still many challenges ahead before a sustainable peace in the kivus can be reached.
the european union is also taking part in the international conference on climate change, which will be held in brussels from 9 to 12 june.
the agenda includes a statement by the president of the commission, mr josé manuel barroso, on the proposals relating to energy and climate change.
one is the question of balance between ecological commitment and the need to reduce our greenhouse gases and, at the same time, the need to address fears that exist in some parts of our industry regarding some effects on international competition.
as you know, the target set was 20% of energy use through renewables.
the question is that today there are no sustainability criteria for the biofuels that are already being produced in the world and are already circulating.
what we are doing now is establishing, for the first time ever, high-level criteria of sustainability for biofuels – domestic and imported biofuels – once again keeping in mind that what we want is a global agreement.
therefore, we need an international regime for the sustainability of biofuels, and this is what we are doing: promoting a new generation of biofuels.
i agree, because for carbon capture and storage, which is a very important and promising technology, we need capital.
by the way, regarding the auction revenues of the member states, we are proposing that the member states assign a part of them to the fight against climate change.
sometimes, when discussing climate change, i remember what john stuart mill said about his father.
if they want to fight climate change, they cannot just love the agenda politically and afterwards not commit to precise targets and methods.
we will not enter into the energy mix of the member states – that could be a discussion without end.
we are saying that now a goal has been unanimously agreed by the member states of 20% use through renewables – for obvious reasons we have had to put the emphasis on renewables, because we have to give some clear incentives to the market – it is the market that will decide on the best technology and source of energy.
we are applying general rules and principles and instruments to 27 very different situations, in terms not only of economic development but also of energy mix, the history of those countries and the culture of awareness of some of these problems.
the presentation to the council of measures to combat climate change by the president of the commission, mr barroso, has an objective and a vision: the strengthening of european monopolies in the face of intense inter-imperialist competition in the energy sector.
the necessary objective of reducing emissions is being exploited to share markets and limit the potential of emerging new powers (china, brazil) to claim larger market shares.
it gives an outlet to capital over-accumulation through the commodification of environmental protection.
after the liberalisation of strategic sectors (energy, telecommunications), the green economy is one of the new major investment avenues for monopoly capital.
the right to pollute is traded for a price on the carbon market.
it fosters a climate of class collaboration, trying to exploit the world's awareness, hiding that dangerous climate change, global warming, is the result of industrial development driven by capitalist profit, the commercialization of land, air, energy, water and so on.
they are measures to the detriment of the people's needs and the development of the profitability of capital in the environmental sector.
the traditional industrial lobby has already begun to shake the commission's proposal, and at the same time the nuclear lobby has put on the green shoe to replace renewable energy sources with nuclear energy.
the european union is at the forefront of the fight against climate change, and in this fight it is clear that you have a special role to play.
we note that there are very serious differences between the member states of the european union in the implementation of the objectives to combat climate change.
we are definitely concentrating our efforts not only on the implementation of current legislation but on actually delivering our agenda of energy efficiency action plans.
i would like to mention that we have also achieved sustainable successes.
we have now adopted in the college a renewable energy directive which indirectly strengthens energy efficiency.
we adopted a proposal for emissions from cars.
sustainable energy week is a good example of how the commission policy of promoting energy efficiency and renewables is bearing fruit.
i believe the current legislative proposal on ets, on non-ets and on renewables will definitely make the member states put more emphasis on energy efficiency.
concerning the energy efficiency action plans, we had rather a lukewarm start.
we have made a preliminary analysis of energy efficiency action plans, which are part of the package and sometimes a bit overshadowed by the legislative efforts.
we are now in the final stages of defining energy performance in appliances.
i will be continually updating parliament on how we are proceeding in the area of energy efficiency.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
it is now widely accepted that improving energy efficiency is the fastest, most sustainable and cost-effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency.
we must encourage research and eco-innovation through the development of energy-efficient technologies, without however neglecting the need to change our consumption habits.
we have highlighted the role that the public sector can play in achieving european objectives through the choice of energy-efficient products and services.
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hall, on her brave and comprehensive approach to energy efficiency, which really goes further than the european commission's proposals.
at current energy levels, energy saving is the most effective tool to address climate change, given that the greenhouse gas emissions trading system has not yet delivered the desired results.
the building sector should be given priority in terms of savings, as it accounts for more than 40% of energy consumption.
in greece, the building sector consumes about one third of total energy resources and contributes 40% to carbon dioxide emissions.
however, greece has not yet transposed the energy efficiency in buildings directive into national law and has been recently condemned by the european court of justice, and is one of the 10 countries that has not yet presented a national energy efficiency action plan.
the union, and i am glad that the commissioner has also said this, must give weight to the most consistent implementation of energy objectives by all member states.
the measures and incentives proposed in the report, such as access to structural funding to achieve energy efficiency, an increase in the minimum rate of structural and cohesion funding, tax incentives and, in particular, a reduction in the vat rate for energy-efficient homes and smes, can play a highly constructive role in this direction.
the climate change gamble cannot be won by individuals but by all member states.
as i said, it is the commission’s ambition to follow the energy efficiency action plan.
they have an excellent energy strategy developed until 2025, but i urged him to go very strongly for regulation, because this is a country which will have a huge increase in its buildings.
they will not deter investors if they set an extremely tough requirement for the immediate reintegration of renewable energies.
otherwise, the taxpayers will pay for additional energy supplies.
we need to make much more effort to establish when state aid for new technologies, energy efficiency and renewables is to be applied.
we are also working on an international platform for energy efficiency that could create synergies at international level.
we are speaking about energy efficiency and ambitions will definitely be high on the commission’s side as well.
i believe that in addition to the points proposed, a uniform policy for the final disposal of waste should be implemented.
concerning the point that was made on positive incentives, i agree that these are important, but we need to find the right mix and the right levels, because otherwise they could be counterproductive, and we could end up with a situation whereby we encourage more catches when, for sustainability reasons, we would want to reduce them in order to reach msy levels.
it is only where there is exceeding of catch quotas, and again this depends, because if it is a clean fishery and the quota is exceeded, then the quota is set for purposes of sustainability.
it is, in reality, where you have a mixed catch, and you have one of the types of catch which has a low quota for sustainability reasons, and the other catches targeted, that you have discarding of fish as a result of the tac and quota regulations.
for years now the european union has been cultivating a climate of terror-hysteria, insecurity and terror in the face of an invisible enemy whose alleged combating has drastically curtailed fundamental individual rights and democratic freedoms.
it is clear that the highly competitive environment in which research is being conducted will be dominated by the famous 'centres of excellence' of the powerful states, which will ensure the 'sweepstakes' of research programmes by pooling public and private resources.
the iaea's assurances, the cia report, about iran's civilian use of nuclear energy are deliberately ignored by the eu, which is escalating pressure with sanctions against iran, is intensifying propaganda to familiarize public opinion with a war against it.
the resolution on climate change at the bali conference, attempts to find positives where none exist and at the same time to cover up the causes of environmental disaster, namely the predatory exploitation of natural wealth by capital in order to profit by commodifying land, air, energy and water.
it notes the risk that climate change could 'be a major factor in destabilising the poorest countries' so that euro-monopoly capital can use climate change as an alibi for greater exploitation of developing countries, when it is known that the actions of multinationals are one of the most important causes of their poverty.
it specifically mentions china and india for promoting cooperation in energy policy to curb emissions.
perhaps this is why there is no mention of direct measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and only general wishes are expressed.
in short, in bali, the front was climate change.
the main one was the sharpening of inter-imperialist antagonisms in the energy sector and the commodification of the environment.
mr president, as you know, there is a stated target of 10% of renewable energy being used for biofuels.
i have the impression that there are divergent views among the commissioners for energy, environment, industry and agriculture.
so if tobacco stops growing in some areas, we have a social, economic, environmental problem.
the harmonization of international regulatory standards and rules which facilitates access to foreign markets should not make the european regulatory framework for environmental and social protection, public health and consumer protection more flexible.
the report on the lisbon treaty, the so-called 'euro-constitution', calls on the ep to tackle the backlash and the climate of rejection by workers in the member states.
we want a europe that is more united politically, with a stronger social and environmental policy, with a drastically increased community budget, without the uncontrolled ecb, active and autonomous in the problems of world peace and not a bush oasis.
the committee believes that the appropriate means of promoting these and other anti-working class measures and policies is class cooperation, achieved by broadening social dialogue and by building up a climate of trust between employers and workers.
i therefore take up with the commission, mrs frassoni, what you have said on the subject of waste in campania, and this question will have to be discussed.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
you have rightly stated that we want the correlation tables adopted by the council, and today, with the report by monica frassoni - on whose preparation the rapporteur has worked very closely with you and on which we had a very interesting hearing in parliament - we have the opportunity to say that we want parliament to be involved in the monitoring process, to be informed of your activities, to come to our committees - as you do to the committee on the environment - and to report on progress.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
it provides an effective framework for safe passenger mobility in a globalised environment, while enabling member states to adapt their policy to new developments and the specific needs that may arise in a given period.
commissioner, it is particularly positive that in the face of a change in the supply and demand for dairy products, the commission has reacted by amending one of the most basic regulations, increasing national quotas by 2% for the period 2007-2008. i would like to point out that the flexibility shown by the commission in relation to the development of the agricultural and foodstuffs markets is acceptable, especially at a time when the livestock sector is facing sustainability issues due to the crisis on the international market.
the commission is really trying to create the best possible environment for cultural dialogue, exchange, cooperation and i think the fruits are very obvious.
where there is culture, there are values, there are also economic dimensions developed, healthy and sustainable.
− settlement of the dispute referred to by the honourable member would be facilitated if the european union showed to the complainant that its regulatory procedure was working satisfactorily and led to approvals without undue delay, whenever risks to health or the environment were not identified or were manageable.
as always happens, it is very difficult to concentrate only on biogas – we then start a discussion on all renewable energies.
this whole discussion is based on the energy report published by the commission last january, because we could suddenly see that we were depending heavily on imports of energy, especially from our eastern neighbours, and secondly: how could we contribute to the reduction of co2 or greenhouse gas emissions?
when we talk about the transport sector, 10% needs to come from renewable energies by 2020, and here the agricultural sector was the first supplier – and is at this stage the only supplier.
it is crucial for it to be economically viable in the future, which it is not today with the different types of renewable energies.
we need to be able to find the ‘golden solution’, so that it becomes economically sustainable.
another issue is sustainability – environmental sustainability.
we will not accept renewable energies that are not produced in a sustainable way, and this is related both to production within the european union and to renewable energies that will be imported from overseas.
here we use waste – slurry – and all the residue from slaughterhouses, which is a very good component in this production process.
from an agricultural-environmental point of view this can solve some of the problems that some member states, some regions, are facing with the nitrates directive, as mentioned here tonight.
i think there are lots of possibilities in the renewable energy sector, but we need to push for further investments to be able to make it a viable solution for the future.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by claude turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy statistics (com (2006) 0850, c6-0035/2007 - 2007/0002 (cod)) (a6-0487/2007).
the agenda includes the debate on the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on statistics on plant protection products (com (2006) 0778 - c6-0457/2006 - 2006/0258 (cod)) (a6-0004/2008).
the lisbon objectives - your own objectives, mr barroso, who is not listening to me now because he is talking to his colleague - you have forgotten the objective of social cohesion and the objective of environmental protection, mr barroso!
and you, gentlemen of the council, instead of pushing the barroso package on climate change more ambitiously, are trying to stifle it!
we are calling for a fundamental reform of the cap, with measures to help small and mediumsized farmers to continue to produce, while preserving the rural population, biodiversity and protecting the environment and public health.
the report on agriculture which will help to protect the environment is hypocritical, because the uprooting of thousands of small and mediumsized farmers increases the desertification of the regions, while the use of crops for biofuels will contribute to the increase in food prices.
we already have regional cooperation in place under the energy charter for south east europe.
ms ek referred to the environmental aspects of overfishing in the adriatic and i would like to respond to her and inform you all that prime minister sanader told president barroso and myself of his concern for a special area in the middle of the adriatic, the ‘jabuka pomo pit’, which is an important spawning ground.
the commission is strongly in favour of the sustainable management of fish stocks and commissioner borg has been very active in this matter.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work, which i believe reflects parliament's concerns about the extent to which the union has so far fulfilled its commitments under the sixth community environment action programme.
at the same time, it is recognised that a shift towards sustainable production and consumption models is necessary, as well as further decoupling economic growth from the use of natural resources.
at the same time, we must stress the international dimension of european environmental policy, stressing that the union should be encouraged to continue to promote ambitious environmental policies and requirements by promoting technology transfer and the exchange of good practices with developing countries.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sacconi, who has really made an excellent report with his experience in environmental and climate change matters.
the commissioner, with the start of the debate on climate change, is beginning to unfold, with complete transparency and speed, all the problems, mainly environmental, economic and energy problems, which have been the basis of the model of growth and expansion, not only of the european but also of the international economy.
but this system has reached its limits, creating crises, not only environmental ones - such as natural disasters - but also economic and financial crises: the disruption of the energy market, the shift in the centre of gravity, but also the geographical origin of energy sources, the dramatic disruption of the food market, if agriculture is converted into an energy supplier, are the main factors that will cause significant changes in the production model of the european union.
the policy of adaptation to climate change, we would like to believe, will prepare the way for the new european development model of the european union, which will guarantee the environment, employment, and will give new dimensions to social policies, cross-border cooperation and tax policy.
the european union must first of all be consistent with its own declarations if it is to be in the forefront of the fight against climate change.
so when you are right to talk about mainstreaming and that we must reduce greenhouse gases, the commission cannot finance the continuation of european union support for coal and oil.
(applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, commissioner, i would like to refer to a subject which is linked to the phenomenon of climate change but which has not been raised in today's debate on the occasion of the recent communication from the european commission on strengthening the union's capacity to respond to disasters, to which is attached a specific annex entitled 'forest fires', which refers to the widespread devastating fires that struck southern europe and in particular greece last summer.
these widespread fires are linked to the phenomenon of climate change and i believe that there is an urgent need for preventive measures throughout europe and particularly in the southern european region, which, as the ipcc studies show, is the most affected by this phenomenon and already frequently experiences extreme weather events.
the mid-term evaluation of the sixth environment action programme does not offer anything new, i.e.
however, while acknowledging the major environmental problems, the causes of the acute situation, namely the predatory exploitation by multinationals for their profit, are not highlighted.
they use the environment as a reservoir for theft of raw materials, uncontrolled action, a field of insurance and new profits.
the 6th environment programme also empowers nature exploiters themselves as responsible for protecting the environment, stating explicitly that 'effective action, business opportunities, the market will provide a solution'.
the environment is essentially a new field of accumulation and new profitability for capital.
the money of the people, the liberalisation of strategic sectors and the commercialisation of environmental protection, promoting the 'green' economy as one of the greatest investment opportunities for monopoly capital.
at the same time, it exploits the world's awareness, hiding that dangerous climate change, global warming, is the result of industrial development driven by capitalist profit, the commercialization of land, air, energy, water, etc.
unfortunately, all human values are being used as fuel for the profit motive of capital, as is the natural environment, where the consequences of the same policy are already being painfully felt.
it must ensure the sustainability, competitiveness and multi-functionality of european agriculture.
particularly today, when the european union is facing significant social, economic and environmental challenges, volunteering should not only be encouraged but also supported by european policies and, in particular, cohesion policy.
member states and regional authorities should endeavour to ensure that voluntary groups and actions can, in a transparent and flexible manner, access adequate and sustainable funding from the structural funds.
in order to develop transplants, a high humanistic awareness of organ donation needs to be cultivated, but this requires a specific social environment.
they believe that the environment needed to develop the consciousness of organ donation is that of combating eu policy and the commodification of health and welfare, of human needs.
the eib is called upon to play a more active role in supporting private capital financing, enhancing competition, promoting the privatisation of energy, transport and land-use infrastructure, and financing large-scale private partnership projects.
wind turbines that destroy the environment, such as on aegean islands, toll roads that rise vertically on public highways, public-private partnerships, etc.
we are not dealing here with a commission-led agreement with industry, as was the case for example with the reduction of co2 emissions from motor vehicles, but with what can be called automatic development.
as i said, the two-wheeler manufacturers cannot meet the already strict limits for hydrocarbon emissions with conventional two-stroke engines.
increasing employment rates is the best way to ensure the adequacy and sustainability of pension systems.
in greece, the risk of poverty in old age is substantially higher than average, 26% in 2005 for people over 65 compared to 19% for people aged 64. the greek pension system needs reform not only for reasons of adequacy but also for reasons of sustainability.
in view of the low proportion of women, policies aimed at increasing the employment rate of women are necessary to ensure the adequacy and sustainability of pension systems in the long term.
the involvement of young people in active life and society and the better exploitation of their potential are key preconditions for the restoration of strong and sustainable growth in europe.
if these loans go to infrastructure, go to sustainable development, who can argue that it's good for africa?
the accession of fyrom and other balkan countries to the eu and nato involves the peoples in the inter-imperialist confrontations of the us, eu and russia for control of energy sources and transport routes, with serious risks for the peoples of the wider region.
the right of wto member states to apply trade restrictive measures aimed at protecting the environment, public health and the consumer is legitimate.
this is true of social responsibility, environmental protection and economic competitiveness.
i would say that, for us, the primary factor is the safety to human and animal health and the environment as well.
the irreversible effects on the environment multiply the risk of gmos.
the citizens understand this very well, and they also understand and ask us, in the face of the current situation, with very important challenges and with very tense and difficult situations on the markets and in the economic environment, not to stand still and to continue to take initiatives.
the report's references to poverty, the environment, labour rights, health, etc., are a challenge to the peoples who are suffering under imperialist domination and capitalist exploitation.
i would like to underline that in cotton regions in spain and greece rural development programmes are actually efficiently used, for example the different agri-environmental schemes.
first, it has lofty goals, such as boosting research into new varieties that will consume less water and fewer drugs, so there will be great environmental benefit.
the report as it stands satisfies both the farmers of the member states and the objectives of the european union, because it involves own financing and environmental measures which the european union so badly needs.
we are of course aware of and respect the specific nature of sport; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in sport is a very good one, but it is very positive - for the member states and for sport in general - that the european union will now be able to complement and promote a european policy in this field.
greater support for cotton producers is needed, without further reducing production, while taking effective measures to protect the environment and promote sustainable rural development.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law, whatever its final outcome - that is to say, the outcome of the relevant legal proceedings, which will be more due to differences of a legal nature and less to matters of substance - is moving in the right direction and will be a cutting-edge tool for more effective protection of the environment in the coming years.
so we have to be generous and smart so that we all - ourselves and our colleagues in the services - work in an environment that ensures health in the workplace.
finally, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that there should be mechanisms to support and transfer know-how to developing countries in the sustainable and transparent management of the exploitation of raw materials and natural resources.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
so if we stop this regime, if we stop the aid, the result will be that both areas will be desertified and ecological degradation will be brought to the regions.
and i would also like to appeal to your environmental sensitivity.
i am sure that your ecological and human sensibilities, even those of you who speak against smoking and link smoking to tobacco growing, will change your mind.
more flexibility in the application of european and state aid policies to productive activities taking place on islands, for equal access to the internal market and the establishment of an operating aid scheme on islands, for the impact of climate change on islands and in particular the aggravation of existing problems such as water scarcity, to facilitate transport links between islands and mountainous areas and the mainland.
finally, particular priority should be given to energy security on the islands, through the development and implementation of energy production projects using new technologies and renewable energy sources, as well as the development of broadband and the strengthening and ensuring the sustainability of island and mountain tourism.
it intensifies work and thus increases the risks to human life and the environment.
what do you do about climate change?
in that context, in the press conference, i noted that the main issue was consuming much political energy.
the mss can make universal coverage of member states a reality in order to achieve sustainable economic growth in line with the objectives of the revised lisbon strategy.
mr president, commissioner, mrs thomson's report touched on a sensitive aspect of my own history, because i obtained my doctorate at the sorbonne as the mother of three children already - and my husband the father of four - and then i was forced to exclude myself and to exclude myself from the environment of further research, and this because the thirst for research is like a germ that has been ingested and we feel very unhappy when we do not continue research.
the regulation will make a significant contribution to strengthening the european union's leadership in the talks under the auspices of the united nations environment programme and for the adoption of a world mercury treaty.
finally, under the agreed text, mercury which is no longer used in the chlorinated alkaline industry or produced in other industrial processes will be regarded as waste and safely stored.
in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the compromise text we have reached with the council is important and that if it is adopted without amendments, which will bring us back to the starting point and lead to significant delays in measures to protect the environment and public health, i believe that we are taking a step - tomorrow with the vote - towards ensuring a satisfactory level of protection of public health and the environment.
- the mr president, honourable members, under the agreed text, mercury that is no longer used in the chlorinated alkaline industry or produced in other industrial processes will be considered as waste and safely stored once the export ban comes into force, i.e.
at the same time, the commission is implementing the other actions of its mercury strategy and is actively negotiating international measures within the framework of the united nations environment programme.
if the european parliament is tomorrow more royal than the king on the almedina issue, we risk cancelling a major success of parliament and a satisfactory compromise, delaying the adoption of measures for public health and the environment - as the mandate of the present european parliament expires in one year - and we run the great risk of the council returning to the starting point, a position it had initially and which is very far from the position we adopted at first reading.
we know the battle you are waging, commissioner - and within the commission - against lobbies and interests that are undermining the european union's effort to be at the global forefront in the fight against climate change.
the european parliament, in its large majority, is in favour of a more ambitious effort by the commission and the governments, because human life and the protection of the environment are weighing much more heavily on the scales than the interests of certain business circles.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to start by welcoming the interim report on the scientific evidence on climate change, particularly because it highlights the convergence of scientific opinions on the existence of the phenomenon of climate change and the important contribution of the human factor, and in particular of the choices made by the individual, to the phenomenon.
the ipcc fourth assessment report states that global carbon dioxide emissions increased by about 80% between 1970 and 2004 and that these increases are mainly due to the use of fossil fuels.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
i therefore call on you to reject these amendments, to ensure that the important steps towards protecting the environment and public health are taken by the agreement reached with the council and to adopt by a very large majority a satisfactory step towards banning mercury exports.
at the same time, however, it insists on promoting energy-saving fluorescent lamps, knowing that they contain at least 5 milligrams of mercury each, a particularly dangerous quantity when one considers the number of lamps in each dwelling or workplace.
the responsibility for public health is given to the companies that are called upon to handle the collection of waste, when it is known that it will end up in landfills and garbage bins, creating a huge risk of contamination for society as a whole and not just for those who use it.
in order to prevent reactions affecting sales, even basic measures are not taken to inform the public of the dangers of the discharge of the contents of the lamps into the environment.
it uses environmental protection and worker concern about environmental problems to promote the establishment of a common eu criminal law, and in particular by abolishing the rule of unanimity of member states which has been in force in criminal matters until now.
the interim report of the interim committee on climate change does not contain any new ideas, thoughts or recommendations for the protection of the environment that are useful to the people.
insists on the eu's well-known anti-people policy to ensure 'green' outlets to capital over-accumulation and limits itself to reproducing the conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change it considers it a 'strategic objective' of the eu to limit the temperature rise to 2 ̊c, while acknowledging that 'such a level of temperature rise would have very serious consequences for society and the way of life of each of us'.
it ignores the responsibilities of capital for the over-exploitation of natural resources and instead of calling for measures to limit the unfairness of monopolies, it fully embraces the propaganda of the multinationals that we are all to blame for the worsening of climate phenomena, stressing that lifestyle changes are required at the individual level.
are proving ineffective because their central objective is not environmental protection but the protection of capital and its profits, the commodification of the environment and the development of a new profitable economic sector: the green economy.
the solution to environmental problems will not come from the multinationals and monopolies responsible for the present situation, but from the people who bear the consequences.
given turkey's position in the imperialist system and its competitors in the wider region, the eu seeks to use the accession process to its advantage, for the energy and geo-strategic control of the wider region.
areas that may become more problematic due to climate change, including migratory pressures and the like.
we can certainly expect that the protection of the climate and the environment in general will be one of the main themes of the barcelona process, which, as we know, is soon to be upgraded in terms of the proposals for the creation of a union for the mediterranean.
it should be borne in mind that in the european area, the area of the european union, many member states are faced with problems of public resources, debt and sustainability of social protection systems.
to this end, the commission is organising technical meetings in areas such as energy, transport and the environment with experts from the belarusian administration.
the commission is also proposing a debate on joint action to combat climate change.
energy policy is also on the agenda.
we want to promote cooperation in science and technology, but at the same time we need a constructive and open dialogue with our conventional and potential energy suppliers, and we should exchange this sensibly in a transatlantic context.
there are a number of concrete results: we have made progress on product safety of imports, we have achieved acceptance of european accounting standards by the us, we have a common vision on promoting an open global investment environment.
i would be very grateful to the european parliament if it would continue to support and promote this process with great energy!
will you tell them something to stop undermining the global agreement on climate change?
mr president, recently there has been a growing number of voices in the european union advocating the need to extend the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and primarily to meet europe's energy needs.
given the uncontrolled rise in the price of oil, increased demand from a number of fast-growing economies, regional turmoil in oil-producing countries, and the fact that renewable energy sources or natural gas will provide a percentage of europe's energy needs, the question of establishing nuclear power plants is being raised.
and finally, how safe is nuclear waste management?
the economic and political environment in the mediterranean is also becoming more and more complex, because, in addition to the presence of the united states, we have china and russia, so we have to be more proactive and efficient.
• calls for the strengthening of us-eu imperialist cooperation, including through the strengthening of nato, with the aim of manipulating and exploiting peoples and countries; • reaffirms the eu-u.s. strategic anti-people alliance in the 'war on terror', which, however much it may be peppered with hypocritical appeals for respect for human rights, is but a pretext for the ruthless war they have jointly launched against the peoples; • using the effects of climate change on countries and peoples as a pretext, prepares the ground for new imperialist interventions with the usa; • by a policy of equal distance, effectively supports the israeli occupation forces and their crimes against the palestinian people, advocates the continuation of the occupation of iraq and afghanistan, proposes practical us-eu cooperation measures in the euro-asian protectorate of kosovo.
the aim of this association is to liberalise markets in order to promote the penetration of european monopolies under better conditions, to improve their position in monopoly competition for market control, and to exploit the region's energy and resource-producing resources.
human lives were lost, property, farms and homes were destroyed and the environment suffered relentless blows that will take many years to repair.
the resolution i have drawn up - and i hope we will vote almost unanimously on thursday in the plenary, as we did in the committee on the environment - asks the commission to stop delaying, to stop keeping to its word, to stop postponing.
we have adopted a number of questions to the commission in the committee on the environment, and today you have told us that you will be presenting proposals in one year's time, in the middle of 2009. the question is when the commission will decide to seriously consider these issues and respond to those proposed by the european parliament.
we do not want just good words, we want action, so that this summer too we do not mourn the victims and the great ecological disasters.
international developments in the energy and food production sectors and the inherent inequalities in the less prosperous regions of the union itself with permanent structural handicaps, the peripheral, island, deindustrialized and other areas, create the conditions not for the eradication but for the flourishing of this worrying phenomenon.
i think it is clear from the presentation of the proposal that the commission is not leaving the issue of poverty unaddressed and that its aim is to gradually create a political environment which will make it possible to combat poverty more effectively.
to achieve a breakthrough, to change the political climate, we need a broad and concrete discussion on the subject, and that's the goal of this year.
the ec-council-commission compromise proposal on waste management is a substantial setback in favour of the huge economic interests behind waste and waste.
the proposed directive does not contribute to the overall reduction of waste, is characterized by deliberate ambiguity of objectives and means, excludes industrial waste and is limited to some municipal waste only, serving more economic efficiency and competition than the environment and public health.
an example of the general retreat is the shift in the hierarchy to recycling prior to energy recovery, and the recognition of the energy combustion of mixed waste as energy recovery for other than already envisaged cases such as biogas production.
the volume of waste must be reduced, its management and transport rationalised, with public national, regional or local responsibility, toxic and other dangerous substances - dioxins, etc.
- must be separated and sorted, recycling must be maximised, mixed waste must not be incinerated, landfills must be upgraded to protect the environment and their residues must be disposed of safely.
the irrigation of big business and industries that pollute uncontrolled rivers, lakes and water bodies with untreated toxic and toxic waste cannot be limited by legislation that effectively allows companies to pollute and pay meagre fines - even if a legislative violation is found - making huge profits at the expense of public health and the environment.
in the face of increased profits and under the pretext of 'competitiveness', they put the lives of workers at risk, while calling on them to finance, through taxation, the measures for the cleaning up of the pollution.
the pollution of the underground water supply of the para-asobean region with depleted chromium by the uncontrolled action of industries also highlights the essential shortcomings of legislation which limits itself to the setting of a maximum chromium content and provides nothing about a proven dangerous carcinogenic substance such as depleted chromium.
the proposed eu measures, even when restrictive on the content of hazardous substances, are invalidated by the absence of effective controls and pollution prevention measures that would affect the profits of the industries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the third energy package has divided the political groups.
this can only be achieved if, on the one hand, vital national interests of certain member states are not compromised and, on the other, we do not compromise the basic principles of independence and efficiency which should govern the action of energy transmission system operators and energy regulators.
madam president, i would first of all like to reinforce what the rapporteur, mrs morgan, has said about the need to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable, against rising fuel prices, the need to tackle energy poverty and the dynamic promotion of investment in renewable energy sources.
but as far as the great question of creating a single internal energy market is concerned, achieving this objective depends not only on the formulation and implementation of a single strategy but also on an awareness of the specific characteristics of each partner.
the delays in modernisation projects may also be due to a distorted energy policy which treats energy as a product whose disposal is primarily aimed at increasing profitability rather than improving the system.
but since the third quarter of 2007, global shocks both to energy and food prices have put upward the pressure on inflation not only within the european union but throughout the whole world.
i think it is also important that we continue to encourage and promote investments in agricultural research, to enhance sustainable productivity growth in the agricultural sector, not only in europe but worldwide.
finally, the commission considers that short-term targeted measures taken to alleviate the impact of higher energy prices on poorer sections of the population might be justified.
then we will be left totally behind, being dependent on imports of ethanol and biodiesel; because if we do not have these in place we will not be able to meet the targets of 20% greenhouse gas emission by 2020. so we need to find a solution, and today first-generation biofuel is the only solution.
but we need – and i think we agree on this – to give as much encouragement as possible to research and development for the second and even third generation of biofuels produced from waste, from slurry, from straw, from other products – such as wood chips – from the agricultural sector that are not used for anything today.
the commission is at present preparing a communication on a strategy for the sustainable development of eu aquaculture, which should be finalised by the end of 2008. the strategy will seek to create the best environment for the sustainable growth of aquaculture, ensuring both adequate supplies of seafood to the european union’s citizens and compliance with high environmental and public health standards.
with eco-labelling of aquaculture fish the parameters are different, so here the basis should be other reasons, such as the fact that the fish are bred in conditions which meet certain environmental, health and sanitary standards.
adding to that, there are various measures that we have introduced in order to regain sustainable fishing, and that means that the fisher cannot try to improve his performance by catching more, because if he catches more, he creates further pressures on fish stocks which would then be, in the long term, counterproductive.
we have been aware of the fact that the community measures seeking to restore sustainable fisheries are affecting fishermen and impacting on their livelihood.
it is therefore obvious that without their participation no environmental policy can be effective.
smes face greater difficulties in complying with environmental legislation, but also in reaping the benefits of higher environmental performance.
they often lack the information, expertise, human and financial resources needed to address environmental problems, risks and impacts.
the commission has therefore set up a programme to help smes comply with environmental legislation.
the aim is to reduce administrative burden and free up resources so that smes can better focus on complying with environmental legislation.
secondly, more accessible and tailored environmental management systems for smes, so that environmental concerns can be economically integrated into core business activities.
thirdly, targeted financial assistance to promote initiatives undertaken by public authorities or business support networks aimed at sustainable production.
there are other measures included in this action plan, whereby the commission seeks not only to ensure that smes comply with production legislation, but also to help them take advantage of the economic opportunities arising from better environmental performance, such as energy savings and improved resource efficiency.
one activity is, for example, the establishment of local environmental expertise for smes to address the lack of know-how at enterprise level.
for example, in the new legislation which we are proposing for the revision of the carbon trading system, we have specific provisions for small and mediumsized enterprises, as we define them in this particular legislation, so that they are not burdened by being included in the trading system, should there be such a choice by the member state.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's environmental policy is not in conformity with the treaty.
would you agree with the idea of a green tax on imports from countries which are smugglers of the global consensus on environmental protection?
- madam president, in principle this is an issue which concerns not only small and mediumsized enterprises, but all enterprises which face this kind of competition not only for purely environmental issues but, as has been the subject of much discussion recently, also for the issue of the restrictions imposed and the resulting burden on european industries to limit greenhouse gas emissions.
the work and reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, known as the ipcc, in november 2007, and the recognition by world leaders that collective action is urgently needed to tackle climate change, led to an agreement in bali last december - where the european union played a leading role - to start negotiations on the post-2012 climate change framework.
the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change have agreed on the so-called bali roadmap.
in particular, climate change mitigation, adaptation, given that climate change is already here to a certain point and will be inevitable by 2050, technologies and related financing for both adaptation and carbon mitigation.
the parties also agreed to complete the negotiations by the end of 2009, ahead of the planned cop in copenhagen, to allow sufficient time for the ratification process of the future climate agreement to be completed by the end of 2012, when the first period of compliance with the obligations under the kyoto protocol expires.
the agreement reached in bali took full account of the findings of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report.
it is also recognised that drastic reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions will be needed to prevent the global temperature from rising to dangerous levels, which, according to this report, should not exceed 2 degrees celsius by 2050. work has already begun and four negotiating sessions are planned for this year - two of which have already taken place - in preparation for the conference of the parties in poznan.
the european union is actively involved in the negotiations of the united nations framework convention on climate change with a view to influencing them positively.
it is clear that achieving a comprehensive and ambitious agreement on climate change beyond 2012 is one of the greatest challenges for global environmental governance.
i should like to say that the french minister for the environment, energy and transport, a few days ago, described the copenhagen conference as the most likely agreement on the future of the world.
we need to build on the evidence we already have, namely the united nations framework convention and the kyoto protocol, under which modern means of implementation have already been developed, such as the clean development mechanism, two flexible mechanisms, and the scientific expertise of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, the ipcc.
common sense dictates the copenhagen agreement, and with the work that the european union is doing and with the support that we have from public opinion in europe, but also with global awareness and with the particular support of the european parliament and with agreement by the end of the year on the package of measures that we have proposed, which will strengthen the negotiating power of the european union, we will be able to reach an agreement in copenhagen that will effectively tackle climate change.
climate change also reflects a reality of 'cause versus effect'.
the question therefore arises of the union's position in the event of countries with high ecological debt not participating in the global regulatory consultation for the post-kyoto period.
the secondary cost - i am referring here to estimates by your colleague mr verheugen - would be the tendency for european companies to relocate to countries with a flexible environment protection framework.
- the madam president, not only mr verheugen, but i myself am very much interested in the principle of avoiding what is called 'carbon leakage' for the simple reason that if companies move from the european union to countries which do not have carbon emission restrictions, then the environmental result i expect will not be achieved.
the problem of energy-intensive firms is therefore primarily an environmental one and therefore the kind of competitiveness problem which would encourage them to relocate should not be created.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the energy sector.
if such an agreement is not reached - and i do not believe that the world will be led to such an absurd decision - then we have all the provisions in the proposed legislation for the revision of the carbon trading system to restore the competitiveness of industries which will be exposed to international competition.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected against the risks associated with asbestos.
and i believe that both with the united states, especially with the new administration that is expected to take over from next year, since both candidates are fully committed to introducing a carbon trading system, but also to reducing emissions by 80% by 2050 and to effectively combating the greenhouse effect and working with the european union, together we will be able to convince those who may have different views on this issue, and with the cooperation of countries, like china, which fully understands the problems that are being created for its own citizens by the greenhouse effect and which has accepted its own effort that is not to increase the rate of greenhouse gases, but to reduce them, we will be able to have an agreement at the end of 2009 that is similar to that of developed countries, but it is not a deal at the end of 2009. i believe in this agreement and i believe that all of us here - the european parliament has played a huge role - and with your continued support we will achieve such an agreement.
the ban in previous years was based on the dangers of chlorine and bathing chickens, because the scientific community said it was dangerous to the health of consumers, to the health of workers in slaughterhouses and to waste that left residues with carcinogens.
both government and civil society have a role in creating an environment where people of various religions and beliefs can effortlessly interact.
a tempting alternative might be to look only for non-contentious topics which are not at all related to theology, for example to discuss common environmental concerns.
finally, i believe that the rule of law and the functioning of democratic institutions are prerequisites for the establishment of a favourable climate which would be conducive to real dialogue and understanding.
people need to have trust in the system, and thus diversity within institutions may contribute to creating such an environment.
the aim is to convert a social good into a market product and to promote capitalist restructuring in the energy sector through massive privatisations of energy production and distribution.
the proposal imposes extreme competition, especially in the wholesale energy market, requires the complete separation of networks (transmission systems or transmission management systems) from supply and production and the principle of non-discrimination between the public and private sectors, so that public undertakings lose their comparative advantages and ensure that competitors enter the market.
the victims of this policy are the energy workers, in general the lower classes, who will face price increases and a degradation of services as has happened everywhere where the energy market has been privatised.
why not propose, in a european coordination, national taxation and a share of this revenue to be used to promote renewable energy sources, clean energy and energy saving programmes?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the debate, which aimed to contribute to a common and sustainable policy response by the european union, touched on all the main aspects relevant to the agricultural sector and the common agricultural policy.
these include the permanent abolition of the mandatory dust requirement, the phasing out of the milk quota system, the abolition of the current premiums for energy crops and their replacement to encourage the production of second generation biofuels i.e.
he recalled the short-term measures already taken, particularly in the field of agriculture, and stressed the importance of strengthening the market orientation of agriculture, ensuring sustainable production of biofuels, and increasing the growth of medium- and long-term agricultural productivity in both europe and developing countries.
madam president, as the author of the resolution on this subject, which was adopted almost unanimously by the committee on the environment, i regret that i cannot accept mr bowis' proposal, because the oral amendment he proposes drastically weakens the substance of the text.
mr president, i would like to raise once again from the podium of the european parliament a matter of concern to fishermen in my country, to fishermen in the mediterranean and to all those concerned about the environment.
but third countries, with the turkish fishermen as a typical example, fish whenever they want, how they want and with whatever tools they want, with the result that fish stocks are being reduced, the seas are being degraded, the environment is being degraded.
the environment is above all.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
and those four things are: accuracy, climate change, competitiveness and the environment.
if this is the case, such support can contribute to innovation, increase safety and improve environmental performance and efficiencies in air transportation.
the aid is of particular importance for the promotion of research and innovation, environmental management and the enhancement of aviation safety and efficiency.
i would add that this is a report which, unlike the rest of the energy package, where the issue of ownership unbundling was dominant, did not encounter opposition and reaction, and was therefore voted over by the committees of parliament where it was discussed.
mr president, commissioner, although our discussion today naturally focuses on the internal energy market, i would like to stress, for the sake of balance, the very great importance of the european strategic plan for energy technologies if europe is to meet the enormous energy and environmental challenges it is facing today.
but we also need to redefine our current growth model, to aim for a low or even zero-carbon pathway, while creating growth opportunities for european industry, which has the potential to lead the fast-growing low- and zero-carbon technology sector.
increasing the community budget for energy research and promoting innovation in areas such as renewable energy sources and smart grids are absolutely necessary to meet today's challenges.
however, she also stressed the need for a more favourable climate to enable ngos, the united nations and the international committee of the red cross to work effectively.
sri lanka is now enjoying the considerable benefits of the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance.
the rules under this scheme provide that all countries wishing to continue to benefit from gsp+ will have to reapply by october 2008. the conditions for granting this scheme are based on criteria of economic vulnerability and on the ratification and effective implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, workers' rights, the environment and the principles of good governance.
- mr president, the french presidency obviously welcomes the presentation by the commission, earlier this year, of the 'energy and climate' package, which has well reflected the level of ambition desired by the heads of state and government at their summit in march 2007: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 in any event, and even up to 30% if the negotiations on a global agreement on a regime for the period after 2012 are successful, to propose a regulatory framework for the capture and geological storage of carbon dioxide and to launch, dear mrs doyle, demonstration projects in this field, to achieve by 2020 a 20% share of renewable energy in the total energy consumption of the european union.
the debate, based on the report i have just mentioned, showed that the council supported the overall architecture of the package, and it appeared that some of the provisions proposed in the review of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme and the allocation of effort in the sectors not covered by this scheme should be analysed in more detail.
in particular, provisions on the fight against carbon leakage, the use of auction revenues, the flexibility required to meet national targets and the shift from 20% to 30% will need to be carefully examined and the specific situation of certain member states will need to be analysed.
we know that under the french presidency we will have to clarify all these points, that there are very conflicting interests and that there is still a great deal of work to be done on the elements i have just mentioned, particularly as regards the mechanisms for allocating bids, the fight against carbon leakage and the various flexibilities that can be found.
as regards the mechanisms for dealing with carbon leakage, i think it is important - and this is the feeling of the presidency, i do not commit the council - that on the one hand we can work together technically on these measures which are not simple and that, on the other hand, we have leverage in relation to the international negotiations which await us.
i am thinking of renewable energy, i am thinking of other elements, but our ambition as the presidency, and our responsibility, mr evans, is really to get an agreement by the end of the year, at any cost, and it will cost us, in the monetary sense, on some aspects of this package.
subsidium means helping, and so europe, the european commission, the european institutions can help to provide solutions, they can help to open a debate, they can help to exchange information between different cities, so that solutions can be found, perhaps common ones, which can be useful to citizens, to make their lives easier, their travel easier, their safety easier, both on the roads and in terms of health protection in relation to pollution.
i have to say that it is very much considered now at global level that the appropriate way of looking at things is that through price stability and credible price stability over time you are paving the way for sustainable growth and job creation.
on the question of the price of oil, commodities and energy and the price of food and more generally all those prices that are rising, i think that there is a triangle.
as for the demand side, all economy, all energy savings are absolutely essential and are part of the mastering of the demand side; as well as recognising the real price and not having artificial prices for oil and energy, which would continue to permit the demand to be buoyant.
the proposal for a directive on the internal market in gas is part of the so-called 'third energy package', which completes the privatisation of gas services.
this eu policy will have the same painful effects on workers as the privatisation of other energy sectors: price increases, deterioration in the quality of services.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed to the adoption of a new directive on the protection of the environment by the member states against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines.
- the the question is whether the commission considers that the reductions in carbon dioxide emissions by the european car industry have been satisfactory.
i could stick to these two simple answers, but i'd like to give a few more explanations: we have proposed a mandatory carbon dioxide emission target of 120 grams in 2012, as set out in the strategy on carbon dioxide and cars.
it should be said that there was a voluntary agreement between the car industry and the european car industry, but also the japanese and korean car industries, to not emit more than 140 grams of co2 per km in 2008. this was unfortunately not achieved: in 2006, emissions were 160 grams, while in 2007 they were 159 grams according to the latest data.
we hope that parliament and the council, through the co-decision procedure, will adopt the commission's proposal so that we have cars that use less energy, less fuel, that emit less carbon dioxide.
by consuming less energy and less fuel, consumers will have huge savings gains, especially with today's fuel prices.
there are other ways of informing the consumer, since when he buys a car he goes to the dealership, he is informed by the leaflets and signs there about the carbon dioxide emissions and the fuel consumption.
mr president, commissioner, the members of the g8 are proposing a 50% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 2050. however, this proposal does not seem to be received by the advanced, dynamic developing countries - china, india, brazil, mexico and south africa.
regarding the first three questions, i would say that the european union’s agriculture is both at the contributing and the receiving end of today’s global environmental challenges.
the commission believes that, with less budget available, the effectiveness of dealing with the challenges within climate change and water scarcity will be significantly weakened.
my report is mainly concerned with environmental protection and that is why i ask for your support.
- the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
these are proposals to establish black sea partnerships in several fields, including transport and the environment, and member states present in the region are particularly active in promoting those initiatives.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the mid-term evaluation of the european environment and health action plan 2004-2010 (2007/2252 (ini)) (a6-0260/2008).
given that we spend 90% of our time indoors, it is necessary for the european commission to proceed immediately with the development of a strategy in this area and to focus on setting guidelines and on protecting citizens exposed to multiple sources of biological and chemical pollution.
the soil, we all agree, is an environment and we want to protect it.
the soil protection directive makes a clear distinction between pollution from agriculture and pollution from industry.
and as far as pollution from agriculture is concerned, we see that a lot of effort is being made by the common agricultural policy, a lot of effort is being made by the health check; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
but the big concern is what happens to industrial pollution.
we in the committee on agriculture and rural development are concerned about the impact of increasing soil pollution on our agricultural production and on the environment.
this pollution is reflected in the soil and water and it is therefore appropriate to adopt indicators and limits for measuring it before we reach a state of irreversibility.
i would therefore urge that, as we have done many times - and rightly so - with regard to air pollution, we should also do so with regard to soil pollution.
the reckless use of natural resources for profit, capitalist restructuring, market liberalization, privatization of energy, transport and telecommunications are all leading to environmental destruction.
in conjunction with the deterioration of working conditions and conditions, the privatisation of health care and insurance, health problems in general and in particular those linked to environmental risks are increasing.
the commercialisation of health services and the eu's environmental policy, which by applying the pollutant trading scheme and the polluter pays principle turns the environment into a commodity, cannot lead to the prevention of risks and diseases, or even to their management for the benefit of workers, because their main aim is to increase capital profits.
the decision of the us government to back the world's largest insurance company with a loan of $85 billion, the nationalization of two of the world's leading mortgage groups and the bankruptcy of the fourth largest investment bank have created a climate of panic in the united states and deep concern among european citizens.
and this is because, in a globalised economic environment, there is a high probability that the crisis will reach europe - if it has not already happened - and hit the banking system, but also the incomes of european citizens.
but in many cases on critical issues - such as the environment and society - the term has been transformed into "collective protest".
on the other hand, producers in these areas are distinguished by their production of quality agricultural products and their experience in the sustainable exploitation of forest land and grasslands.
madam president, the erica iii package of legislation on safety at sea, which is closely linked to the european union's general anti-people policy, the promotion of competitiveness, the increase in the profits of shipowners and, more generally, of the european union's monopoly groups, does not address the serious acute problems of safety of human life at sea and environmental protection.
in the interests of shipowners and the needs of capital's unbridled profitability, it opposes even the most elementary measures to protect human life at sea and the environment.
the human lives lost, the enormous damage to tourism and the oil in the reservoirs, which is an environmental bomb, show us that we must not be stingy.
the union must not only ensure the sustainability of european shipping but also constantly upgrade it to be competitive in the international environment, while always taking into account the protection of natural resources.
in this difficult context, this organisation has become one of the major actors taking practical steps to improve the sustainable management of tropical forests and therefore deserves the attention and support of the community.
let me confirm that there is no formal link between the international tropical forest agreement and other conventions such as the un framework convention on climate change, the convention on biological diversity and the forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) partnership agreements.
in all these agreements, the eu pursues its key objective of making full use of the important contribution that trade can make to sustainable development, including by ensuring adherence to multilateral agreements and national environmental legislation.
it is enough to take into account the harmful effects of illegal logging and deforestation, and in particular their negative contribution to the greenhouse effect.
it is therefore necessary to encourage national policies of producing countries for the sustainable use and exploitation of tropical forests and to strengthen their capacity to implement forest law and effectively tackle illegal logging.
a scandal that affects the lowest income households in europe, a scandal that seeks political answers, which, beyond what we will do with our adaptation to the green economy, to the pipeline policy, to the energy package policy, we must absolutely find a solution in the fight against the oil cartels.
concerning energy purchases, if the honourable member is agreeable, i will reply in writing because i think it is a very specific question and i would hesitate to give a concrete figure.
with regard to the standardisation inspection of national civil aviation authorities by easa, the commission should like to reassure the honourable member that it is thanks to the close cooperation and mutual trust established between the civil authorities in the member states and easa that sustainable solutions are being agreed and worked out between the agency and the inspected authorities.
− the eu currently relies on nuclear energy for 30% of its electricity production, and it accounts for two thirds of the eu’s carbon-free electricity.
by 2030, energy demand in the eu is expected to grow by 20% and electricity demand by 38%.
as a result, the share of electricity in the final energy demand would grow from 20% to 23%.
electricity-generation capacity is forecast to grow by 31%, but, under the primes baseline assumptions studied by the commission, the share of nuclear energy will decrease from 30% to 20% in electricity generation.
also, the international energy agency in its recently published eu energy policy review concluded that ‘eu nuclear generating capacity will decline from now on unless significant investment is forthcoming in the near future for plant lifetime extensions and the replacement of facilities reaching the end of their operational lives.’ it is for each individual member state to decide whether or not to rely on nuclear power for the generation of electricity and launch new projects or go ahead with a nuclear phase-out policy.
the commission is following the overall picture of ongoing investments in the nuclear energy sector in the eu.
at present, the commission is updating this communication, as part of the commission’s overall strategic energy review.
it should be available before the end of 2008. in addition, the commission launched two initiatives to further debate the future of nuclear energy and to identify requirements for its development.
the first is the ‘high level group on nuclear safety and waste management’ focusing on identifying safety issues for priority handling and recommending actions to be taken at eu level.
the second, the ‘european nuclear energy forum’, intends to provide a platform for a broad and transparent stakeholder discussion on the opportunities and risks of nuclear energy.
broader opportunity definitely comes when you use things that usually just go to waste.
there are educational programmes, because generally this is not education about biofuels but about sustainability, energy efficiency and a quite different attitude towards the environment and knowing that whatever you use is taken from somewhere and is always doing damage.
so i believe that each of us, when using energy, should try to use it as efficiently as possible and follow the trend of using greener energy, supporting this even it if it costs a bit more.
− we are very positive about the development of geothermal, and i believe that the draft directive now being discussed, and the climate-energy package, will facilitate the use of renewable power, including geothermal.
it is much easier to pass the costs of fossil fuels to the consumers, because to use renewable energy, like geothermal, you need capital investment, and for this you need a specific environment for, and focus on, renewables.
so i believe that a renewable energy source, like geothermal, will have much better developments in the eu, not only for power production but, for example, in copenhagen it is used for district heating.
concerning energy content: it is true that biofuels have a low energy content and you need bigger volumes, and i think we should not be mistaken that we will replace oil with biofuels.
beyond these extremely important developments on the economic and financial crisis, the council presidency wished that the council could discuss the climate/energy package.
under the decisive impetus of the german presidency, the european council in march 2007 made ambitious commitments on the environment.
we want to preserve this environmental ambition of the package presented by the commission, on which we want, i say clearly, agreement with your assembly at first reading.
the presidency also wished to see the subject of energy security raised, in accordance with the conclusions of the extraordinary european council of 1 september.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems that exist in the energy sector.
we want to adopt guidelines and directives which respond to the legitimate concerns of many member states and, more particularly, those member states which are most dependent on the energy supplies of the central and eastern european member states.
we must therefore set out the guidelines so that the commission will be able to make proposals to us in november to strengthen the energy security of our continent.
it is also explained by the competitive advantage of chinese products, which is based on economic, social and ecological dumping.
the cost of the doha round shipwreck is not just lost opportunities, lost profits and a climate of economic uncertainty.
europe has a unique and historic opportunity to put forward the new economic and social model of development that it has begun to claim through policies on climate change, energy security, social stability and a sustainable economy.
when the economic crisis is over, it should find the eu stronger politically and institutionally, more social and a leader in climate change policy.
the eu magnifies the real risks of climate change caused by the unprofitable exploitation of natural resources by capital, not to promote meaningful measures to counter them but to intimidate the people, to improve its position against imperialist competition, and to find outlets for capital over-accumulation by securing even greater profits for monopolies.
the cor report on the creation of an eu-developing countries climate change alliance is characterised by open intervention in the internal organisation of these countries' economies, societies and governance mechanisms, offering meagre economic rewards to the plutocracy of these countries or threatening military interventions in the context of a proactive policy to address climate-related security threats and conflicts, sharing the sloan report.
it proposes an even more active role for enterprises through public-private partnerships, particularly in areas such as water, public health, energy supply, the introduction of green taxes, the system of emission trading which is earned by enterprises and paid for by workers and the environment, and the adaptation of developing countries to capitalist restructuring in trade, agriculture and security.
the people will reject the eu's imperialist plans and demand a better and healthier environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union.
at the same time, the council decisions reveal the eu's hypocritical concern for the climate, since the price of energy will now be formed on the basis of a market gamble, regardless of its production costs, thus increasing the profits of monopolies and burdening the environment.
the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles is, from a technical point of view, an essential measure for environmental protection, because emissions from conventional vehicles contribute to climate change and to the air pollution of urban centres with serious effects on public health.
the proposed directive does just that by making it compulsory to take into account, in the public procurement criteria for vehicles, the operating costs of energy consumption, co2 emissions and pollutant emissions throughout the life of vehicles, thus provoking subsidies to the car industry to produce cleaner vehicles with public money.
they oppose all kinds of regulations designed to enrich the car industry, which, by its unfair social and environmental attitude, in order to increase its profits, contributes to the phenomenon of climate change, to the overconsumption of energy resources, and to air pollution.
we propose to the european parliament and the council the appropriate legal and regulatory framework to ensure sustainable and high-quality transport in europe and to protect the rights and safety of citizens, and, once the legislators have adopted it, we ensure its implementation.
this is not to the detriment of the member states, however, but can strengthen our collective influence within the international community, thereby increasing the level of protection of the lives of citizens and the environment.
this result was achieved partly because the european parliament insisted, committed itself, and made its voice heard loudly along with that of the commission, so that there would be more comprehensive regulations to guarantee the safety of citizens, in all senses, including our seas, environmental protection, including liability in the event of an accident.
the actions we are going to propose will help to reduce costs, ensure the proper financing of the single market and create outlets for new technologies, boosting sustainable urban mobility.
it is no coincidence that just last night the debate was concluded and then a directive was voted on which is intended to encourage, which aims to encourage local authorities to buy public transport with reduced emissions of harmful gases.
today, however, it is still too early to outline, to be precise in the contents of the action plan, but we can still expect and you can still expect that it will deal with the fragmentation of the rules of access to green areas, urban transport of goods and logistics, the best information on public transport systems in european cities or broad plans on sustainable urban mobility, proposals on how to integrate urban planning and mobility.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, but it is not the right direction.
at the same time, with the existing regulation and instruments, the european union is unable to respond to other types of crisis that are not due to purely natural causes, such as industrial pollution, a pandemic in europe, droughts and various others.
extremely dangerous for both the environment and the countryside.
secondly, to achieve the first objective, the conditions of the stability pact must be adapted urgently, a new social maastricht, a pact for sustainable development, employment and social protection, always subject to strict rules and conditions.
furthermore, in its resolution of 21 may 2008 on a simplified business environment, parliament supported this specific proposal for modifications to the first company law directive, agreeing that it should be easier for companies to publish statutory information.
it cannot be imposed on the companies by obliging them to comply with publication obligations that do not provide any significant added value in today’s technological environment.
mr president, the mandate of the european council of march 2008 was to take new legislative initiatives for rapid implementation in order to improve the business environment for union companies through reducing administrative burden and costs.
the core of the problems facing enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, lies in creating the objective conditions for improving the general bureaucratic, legislative and tax environment.
it is also an industry facing unprecedented environmental challenges.
it is one thing that we have fallen behind, but it is another that we do not have to catch up, at a time when we are also committed to the energy-climate package and this is one of the major challenges facing the european union.
secondly, the major objectives of the european union must be preserved: the commission's proposals must help to achieve the objectives of the energy and climate package that you know; i believe that we are close to an agreement on co2 from cars and that it is now within reach in the procedures involving your assembly, the commission and the council.
i note the paths envisaged by commissioner verheugen which i believe are good paths and which the presidency supports, whether it is through european investment bank loans to the most important green investments, whether it is through tax incentives to make automobile demand more compatible with environmental requirements, to also renew an ageing fleet which is therefore moving away from environmental requirements, to reduce the cost of motor vehicles, which also seems to be an important objective and to move towards vehicles which are more economical.
i voted against the capoulas santos report on the new support scheme for farmers under the common agricultural policy, as i believe that it is not possible to ensure the sustainability of agriculture at european level.
indeed, financing the agricultural sector is essential to ensure the sustainability of the sector and food security in europe.
finally, the report does not include any proposal for the establishment of mechanisms to deal with climate change, which directly affects european farmers.
the cap's effects on small and medium-sized farmers are already visible, especially after the decoupling of aid from production with the 2003 revision: abandonment of crops, reduction of the rural population, clearing, desertification of the countryside, negative effects on the environment.
we have already identified and agreed to have four common priorities in 2009: the european elections, energy and climate change, the 20th anniversary of the democratic changes in central and eastern europe and, of course, sustaining jobs, growth and solidarity in europe.
we are voting against the motion for a resolution based on the view that it is vital that community environmental legislation is properly and equitably enforced, because this legislation does not protect the environment but the vital interests of eu monopolies.
the call for a 'community body of environmental inspectors' is a direct intervention within the member states to ensure the application of the 'polluter pays' principle which allows for the destruction of the environment by paying cheap price, 'green taxation' at the expense of the broad layers of the population, the trade in pollutants, the promotion of entrepreneurship and competitiveness as key criteria for the development of environmental, other, innovative technologies, the use of genetically modified organisms in agriculture and the abolition of the principles of prevention and protection in practice.
the eu and its environmental policy, which serve the interests of big business, generate and reproduce food crime, the air pollution of urban centres by 'modern pollutants', forest destruction, soil erosion and desertification, pollution of seas and waters.
the environment will be a business sector aimed at maximising the profits of the economic oligarchy, it will suffer the consequences of the reckless and unfair exploitation of natural resources and it will be degraded by capitalist barbarity.
i would like us all to accept that the unwise use of pesticides is dangerous to both man and the environment.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union, and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on climate change and energy.
i come back to you a few weeks - very few weeks - after our last exchange and after, in particular, an important moment, when a confidence pact was concluded between parliament and the council, under the watchful eye of the commission, to try to find, by unanimity, as president sarkozy said this morning, a set of arrangements that will make it possible to commit the economies of 27 countries to a sustainable economy, to reduce co2 emissions, to prepare copenhagen, to improve and prepare the competitiveness of our economies for the coming century.
the second assessment concerns solidarity and the third concerns energy.
energy and energy allocations are one of the big pillars of this package, along with renewable energy, automobiles, etc.
the only real discussion in the council last week was not about what i read or hear here and there, but about the fact that 2% of solidarity was allocated strictly and directly to the countries that have recently joined the union, that is to say to those which are being asked to make the biggest energy transition.
on renewable energy, it is broadly in line with the commission's.
it is a little bit more stringent in the long term on co2 emissions from cars.
the energy and climate package that you are going to vote on tomorrow is a landmark package of legislation which is significant not only for the european union, but for the international efforts to address climate change, and will have consequences within the european union and internationally.
it is ambitious, equitable, fair, and it is going to deliver the environmental objective we have set by reducing by 20% the greenhouse emissions in the european union by 2020. so the architecture of the package remains as it was in our proposal and the environmental integrity of the package has been fully preserved and also the fair distribution of the efforts amongst the various parties.
the european union is leading the world as regards climate change and, by adopting this package through your vote tomorrow, we shall confirm our international role in leading the world in addressing climate change, and at the same time we shall ensure that the benefits to our countries from the early move to a low-carbon economy will indeed come.
the european union is the first region in the world that has reduced emissions.
we are the only region in the world where there is an emissions trading system that works well and where we have put a price on carbon.
the european union is the region in the world investing most in the developing countries, in clean development projects, which are useful not only because we get credit for the investments made in those countries, but also because we reduce global greenhouse emissions and because we help in transferring technology in those developing countries, investing there and creating jobs.
the european union is the region of the world that invests most heavily in research, and by our package and by the provision that mr borloo referred to previously of investing the proceeds from auctioning 300 million tonnes of carbon dioxide by 2015, which could be about eur 9 billion, we are going to invest even more in research.
the european union is also the only region in the world that will have set a 20% unilateral target by adopting this package tomorrow, and our leaders have reconfirmed our 30% reduction, which is necessary in order to effectively fight climate change (according to the most recent scientific information, even this 30% will perhaps not be enough).
by adopting this package tomorrow we will have made not just a step forward, but a leap forward in fighting climate change and also setting the example for other countries, other regions of the world to follow us.
yesterday, australia announced a package to fight climate change.
everybody now knows what president-elect obama has set as priorities – energy security, climate change – and he repeated this again yesterday.
when we were discussing this package, various concerns were expressed: concerns about carbon leakage, which is whether carbon-intensive industries, because of the emissions trading system and mainly because of the auctioning, will move to countries without carbon restraints and will continue emitting carbon dioxide in those countries which do not have any limitations (which will also be detrimental to the european union because we shall lose jobs).
at the same time, it should be stressed that these industries will still make their fair contribution to reducing emissions in the european union because they are not only subject to the cap in the emissions trading system, but also they have to comply with the benchmark of best available technologies.
let me turn to auctioning in the energy sector, because i have heard a lot of complaints and dissatisfaction that we have allowed some member states an opt-out regarding this sector.
however, in my opinion, when the time comes they will not use this opt-out for the simple reason – especially for those countries in which the energy sector is privately owned and prices are unregulated – that they will have the dilemma of whether to give the money to the finance ministry – to the state – to be used for good causes or to permit the private sector to make windfall profits, profits without any reason.
concerning flexibility on the cdms and the effort-sharing there: firstly, there are many numbers floating around at the moment as to how much of the effort of reducing emissions will be done domestically and how much will be permitted to be done abroad.
this is one of those issues that are being brought up all the time by our international partners and also here in the european union by all those who are interested in transferring technology and making investments and reducing carbon dioxide emissions in developing countries.
we must have a balance, because otherwise, if we make too much effort abroad and not domestically, it would mean that all the benefits for our business and industry in the european union would be lost, because our package is not only about fighting climate change but also about creating a more efficient economy.
we are going to provide the incentives to make our business and industry more resource- and energy-efficient, and an energy-efficient, resource-efficient business means an economically efficient business – a more competitive business – which, in turn, means innovation in the european union.
thirty per cent is the minimum that we have to agree in copenhagen in order to fight climate change effectively.
coming back to the question of carbon liquids, this is not only a question of preserving our jobs, employment and competitiveness, but also an environmental question.
i do not want to see companies reallocating and emitting in countries without carbon constraints.
so it is an environmental, a social and an economic issue, and our compromise balances all those issues: the social issues, the economic issues and the environmental issues.
− madam president, the proposals that we will be discussing today make a revolutionary change in the way we produce and consume energy.
fewer co2 emissions also mean more energy efficiency and more sustainable energy sources.
co2 targets in non-ets sectors are in reality binding energy-efficiency targets in member states.
the directive on ccs, actually on co2 geological storage, means that none of the energy sources will be discriminated against as long as they correspond to the interests of society.
limits for co2 emissions from cars will actually limit our growing dependency on oil.
twenty per cent of renewable energy in 2020 in final energy consumption means that we will be able to say that we have new energy sources – not only in electricity, but also in heating and cooling and in transport.
we should never forget the energy challenge that we face.
the international energy agency has been saying for four years that we are on a potentially unsustainable path in the energy sector economically, globally, environmentally and socially.
so it very important to see that the global environment is so challenging in the energy sector that we must respond to it.
the proposed package means a profound change that will make our import dependency still reasonable, around 50% in 2030, and brings to the european union competitive advanced technologies for the production or consumption of energy.
it will also make it possible for us to help the sustainable development of the world.
it is not simple to make a change in the energy sector, and it always takes many years.
so again i would like to thank the rapporteurs, who really did a huge job in putting forward parliament’s opinion and getting the agreement of the presidency, with the help of the commission, on the most ambitious set of proposals, which will revolutionise the energy sector.
the next item is the report by mr claude turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (com (2008) 0019 - c6-0046/2008 - 2008/0016 (cod)) (a6-0369/2008).
mr president, commissioners, mr president of the european council, the package of proposals on energy and climate which we are discussing today does not exactly reflect the ambitious objectives which the european commission presented a year ago at the request of the european council, and in many respects it lags behind the reports of the relevant committees of parliament.
the proposals of parliament, and i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hassi, and all those who have contributed to them, have been realistic, conciliatory and at the same time ambitious, reflecting the european union's commitment to maintain and strengthen its leading role in the global effort to tackle climate change.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of atmospheric pollution is a very good one.
our aim is to have a coherent legislative framework for the environmentally safe use of ccs technology, so that there are no negative impacts on human health and the environment.
our main political priority must be and remains to increase energy efficiency and to strengthen renewable energy sources.
the main points of the agreement are the commitment that the first revision of the directive will consider the imposition of carbon dioxide emission limits on all new power stations; the establishment of a financial mechanism for the costs of monitoring and of repairing any damage; the mandatory opinion of the european commission on storage permits; analysis and assessment of the risk to the purity of the current; reinforcing requirements for monitoring storage sites, reporting and remediation of potential leaks; finally, the creation of a clear framework for the responsibility of operators in the operation of the site until the transfer of responsibility to the national authorities.
i am sure that the successes i personally count as being that we have managed to increase payments even marginally in relation to the council's position, that we have found relatively more resources for competitiveness, the environment and security, that for the first time we have a distinct label for tackling illegal immigration at the southern borders of the european union, where countries like mine receive every year a hundred thousand desperate people who knock on europe's door through the southern borders.
the eu boasts of its leading role in environmental protection, but in reality it is claiming a leading role in protecting the interests of capital.
the decisions of the summit and the package of directives of the council and the commission on the reduction of emissions promote the so-called green economy as a way out of the over-accumulation of capital and the crisis, opening up new prospects for profitability for monopolies and strengthening imperialist expansion.
they are reinforcing the polluting market, which has been shown to multiply monopoly profits without protecting the environment.
they allow the car industry to take no measures until at least 2019. they exclude undertakings affected by international competition from the regulation of energy production and more.
the pollution rights are given to the big companies for free.
any revenue not required to be used for environmental projects.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the eu's attempt to lead the global effort against climate change has been undermined by pressure from the industrial lobby and conservative governments.
the possibility for european countries to buy a large part of their pollution units from developing countries cynically transfers the historical responsibility of the western world to the poorest inhabitants of the planet.
we share the concerns of environmental ngos and will continue to push for more ambitious targets on greenhouse gas emissions reductions, substantial support for renewable energy production and the binding long-term plan for further emission reductions after copenhagen.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the eu must remain a reliable partner in the global negotiations without shifting the burden of emissions reduction efforts to the developing world.
pasok supports, inter alia, the content of amendment no 50 in order to ensure that the long-term target of 95 g co2/km becomes legally binding from 2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
i fully agree with the energy council of 8 and 9 december, to which reference was made, that the renewable energy directive was adopted and i believe that this is also a step in the direction indicated by the honourable member.
so, right now, outside the euro area there is more inflation, largely because outside the euro area there are countries in a process of rapid convergence and where a series of effects of higher intensity in energy use, of greater external dependence on energy that has increased in price or of the 'balassa-samuelson effect', said in technical jargon, leads to greater inflationary pressure.
i believe that the treaty of lisbon as a political objective and the political will shown by the leaders and by the member states, by parliament, by the commission to bring the treaty of lisbon forward, despite the difficulties of successive failed referendums, is what the economic and monetary union needs as a political space, as a political arena, as a political environment, to move in the right direction.
but i would like to mention this: the european union is taking all the measures known to protect consumers and the environment in its own area, in agricultural production and the marketing of products.