the natural values, the richness of flora and fauna, the aquatic habitats and the traditional way of life of the people who live here make it one of the last remaining islands of biodiversity.
as the people's party shadow rapporteur on the report in the environment committee, i would like to emphasise that the report is not about the car of the 21st century, but about regulating the automotive industry to be competitive in the 21st century.
today, the automotive sector is the second largest emitter of co2 and accounts for 12% of total co2 emissions in the union.
the dynamics of this process are alarming, as the sector grew by 26% between 1990 and 2004, accounting for 26.5% of total energy consumption in the union.
voluntary agreements by car manufacturers to reduce emissions have not worked and eu regulation is powerless to do anything about it, as the automotive sector can only be covered by the ets after 2013, if at all.
on the one hand, in the area of taxation, to help break into the market for fuel-efficient and low-carbon cars, and to support manufacturers in their targeted development.
on the other hand, to improve the provision of information to customers, to modernise and extend labelling to light-duty vehicles, to harmonise energy efficiency classes and to indicate annual running costs.
then the banned chemicals easily return in imported products and they are also present as environmental pollutants in oceans, seas, rivers and air.
the problem of street children, children forced to beg, is a serious problem here, in our immediate environment.
the right of the child to be born and raised in a healthy environment.
the challenge is that the opening of schengen does not create a favourable opportunity for criminals, and it is therefore desirable to develop a system that makes information on crimes and convictions against children available to member states and protects children from being employed by criminals in their environment.
the main tasks of the slovenian presidency will be to facilitate the ratification process of the treaty of lisbon, to launch the new three-year cycle of the lisbon strategy dynamically and to continue to develop an integrated energy and climate policy.
energy policy is an inevitable part of this.
the construction of gas pipelines, which will greatly reduce europe's energy dependence, is unthinkable without the full contribution of the states of the region.
nabucco could be a symbol not only of the emerging common energy policy but also of black sea cooperation.
the european union must make it clear that it considers any monopoly on energy resources here unacceptable.
industrial sectors and industrial policies for development can put the european economy at the forefront of competitiveness, knowledge and sustainability, in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
you spoke about energy saving in homes: well hungary has not introduced a directive on energy certification of buildings for 2 years.
hungary contributes only a small amount of eu funds to energy efficiency and savings.
– renewable energies can, in principle, offer a solution to global climate change and europe’s energy crisis.
however, biofuels and other forms of bioenergy are contradictory tools for combating climate change.
up to a certain level they positively replace fossil energy, but on a larger scale they endanger the rainforests and the food supply of third world countries.
it contributes to the abolition of special rights within the postal sectors, sets a specific and irrevocable date for opening, and ensures a sustainable high standard of universal services.
the un climate summit in bali did not produce concrete results, but it paved the way for a new global climate agreement after 2012. unfortunately, the biggest emitters, like the united states and china, still don't want to be part of this important process for the future of the earth.
if the united states joins the climate agreement, hopefully it will be easier to convince china.
of course, we must not forget that europe is the largest consumer of chinese products, and so indirectly, as consumers, we are also contributing to china's greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union representatives in bali, in their declarations, talked about 25 to 40 percent of greenhouse gas emissions.
last year, the european parliament voted to cut emissions by 30 percent.
the latest commission proposal, however, only recommends a 20% reduction in emissions by 2020. it would be advisable to set a target of the same size, representing the same out and in, and for my part, of course, i support the more ambitious 30% reduction.
i welcome the compromise reached at the bali climate summit and the decision of the ep's climate committee on this.
the bali compromise is a breakthrough in my view, because the parties agreed on a negotiating mandate for a new climate change agreement, which will replace the kyoto protocol, which expires after 2012. and for the first time, developing countries and the united states have also committed to mitigating the effects of climate change.
the european council in march 2007 decided to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels.
to achieve this ambitious goal, the european commission has drawn up a package of measures to protect the climate and to promote renewable energy sources, setting an example for other industrialised countries.
i hope that his report on sustainable agriculture and biogas, which was adopted yesterday by the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development, will also contribute to the fight against climate change.
i would like to draw attention to the fact that climate change is already a real problem in hungary, as there is a risk of desertification between the danube and the tisza.
the environmental and social erosion of the sand dunes must be stopped, as the livelihoods of nearly 800 000 people are increasingly threatened as a result.
last week, president barroso presented the commission's roadmap for ambitious european carbon reduction in parliament.
the next day, the municipality of tőketerebes in slovakia unanimously rejected the plan to build a sulfur power plant with an annual carbon dioxide emission of 4 million tons, against which a widespread protest action has been taking place for about a year and a half with the collection of signatures and penalties on both sides of the border.
how does the slovak ministry of environment even think of supporting, recommending, such a power plant?
it seems to me that some countries still receive a lot of free carbon dioxide allowances from the commission.
i therefore call on the commission to reconsider the appropriateness of the carbon dioxide quota granted to slovakia, because if the slovak government is to break its head in 2008 with a giant sulphur power plant with outdated technology, it means that the eu incentive is not working.
improving energy efficiency is the most obvious solution to reducing emissions.
joint action in this area can also make a significant contribution to overcoming europe's energy dependency.
perhaps the greatest potential for energy savings lies in the efficiency of industrial and residential buildings.
the socialist heavy-duty buildings and the typical half-timbered houses in the area, which house hundreds of thousands of people, have become symbols of energy waste.
it is welcome that the european commission has recognised the specific situation of the former socialist countries in its action plan and has made it a priority objective to promote energy efficiency in the new member states.
we regret that many member states are not meeting their commitments in implementing energy efficiency legislation.
for example, the hungarian government, while speaking out in favour of climate action, has been delaying the adoption of the national energy efficiency action plan for months.
we are convinced that europe can play a leading role in energy efficiency.
more efficient energy use means a more efficient economy.
new jobs and improved competitiveness, and last but not least, a better environment.
as a matter of fact, this report comes at a time where all initiatives aiming at reinforcing concrete actions for greater energy efficiency should be warmly welcomed.
energy efficiency is indeed the most effective objective providing already available technological tools for genuinely and rapidly addressing the challenges of global warming and limited fossil resources.
we are now embarked on a plan to cut energy consumption and it is essential that we reach our goals on schedule.
it is essential that the energy efficiency targets will not simply worsen the situation of the weakest economies and industries in the poorest member states.
of course, in the long run, there is indeed huge cost-effective potential of energy conservation and stronger energy efficiency policy would very likely benefit the job market in the union.
as the green paper on energy efficiency (doing more with less) by the people's party rapporteur on the environment committee, i welcome the renewed and increased community efforts in this field.
as a result, we can say with confidence that in many eu countries, the only words that have been spoken in support of energy efficiency and savings, and the resulting 'low carbon society' - that is, a low or even zero-carbon economy, household and transport?
i have spoken many times in this house about the seven years of pollution of the river raba.
greenpeace conducted a series of surprise sampling operations, finding illegal water pollution and multiple exceedance of the limit values by austrian plants.
we have had some great initiatives and success stories, like the growth and jobs programme or the ‘think small first’ project, and there have been some great legislative successes – the services directive, the supervision of the financial markets regulation, climate change policy and the new energy package, to list just a few.
in the 21st century the race of continents will not be decided only by natural and energy resources or by financial resources.
while refocusing the growth and jobs strategy on an improved performance-based approach, social inclusion and environmental standards should at no cost be left aside for achieving economic targets.
investments on innovation, research, transport and energy efficiency should focus on bringing real benefits to the european consumers in a free and fair trade economic union.
the ten-year period in which the european union was supposed to become the most competitive economic area in the world, with a strong social network and exemplary environmental performance, is coming to an end.
many laws only prescribe malaszt in some member states, and some environmental limits are more permissible than in many non-eu countries.
but europe cannot want cooperation to be about dealing with the threats that come from there, about access to energy and raw materials, or about how europe is trying to educate this region in democracy and human rights.
it is therefore important to give priority to environmental protection in cooperation.
climate change, chronic water use problems or remediation of past pollution are all areas that need more attention.
in parallel, europe must strictly refrain from any project that pollutes the environment and destroys the lives of its inhabitants.
we've been learning for decades that climate change, pollution, is threatening our future.
the report on the demographic future of europe is an important report, addressing key issues such as halting the ageing process of society, increasing the willingness to have children, improving the reconciliation of work and family life, increasing the opportunities and opportunities for women in employment, caring for the elderly, providing for the needy at work and, last but not least, the long-term sustainability and financiability of large social welfare systems.
it is not just a question of gradual population reduction, but also of the sustainability of the european social model, which is aimed at the well-being of european citizens, the economic development of europe, the guarantee of its global competitiveness at international level, in other words, the future of europe, our future, and the search for solutions is a common interest.
the member states of the european union should support demographic change by all possible means, based on concrete measures to ensure the sustainability of more complex solidarity relationships between generations, the practical implementation of equal opportunities, reconciliation of work and private life, full implementation of the barcelona objectives, the creation of active ageing conditions and the social inclusion of immigrants and ethnic minorities.
new challenges have emerged, such as the issue of aging, or the issue of energy efficiency, climate change, which we also need to address.
in recent days, two events have once again drawn our attention to the need for a common european energy policy.
the lesson from both events is clear: while russia is becoming less and less of an energy partner, the european union is gradually becoming more vulnerable.
to prevent this from happening and to guarantee affordable and secure energy supplies to european consumers, a unified eu action is needed.
it is not too late to strengthen the foundations of a common european energy policy based on solidarity.
drafted by the committee on industry, research and energy.
we need to reshape the economic environment to meet our goals.
i would note that linking taxation to direct air pollution - for example, registration tax - is a good idea.
the expansion of the trade in pollution is another cost factor that will be reflected in prices.
indeed, efforts should be made to reduce congestion in cities and thus emissions of air pollution.
forced relocation is also a huge waste of time, a major economic problem and a serious environmental burden.
one third of the energy we use is used for transport.
over the past 15 years, co2 emissions from transport have increased dynamically, by more than 100% in some member states.
the commission forecasts that the energy demand for transport in the union will increase by at least 30% by 2030. this is the kyoto protocol's downfall.
reducing pollution caused by motor vehicles is a matter of traffic management, technology and economics.
the spread of green technologies depends on the internalisation of environmental costs and the introduction of a carbon taxation system.
at airports, differentiated take-off and landing charges are required, depending on the emissions of the aircraft.
the costs of air pollution, noise pollution and the resulting accidents should be borne by transport, i believe.
a small budget is a waste of money.
our achievements in life sciences, in the combat against climate change and in environmental studies are the best arguments.
care should therefore be taken to balance the social, environmental and production impacts of quota increases, in particular with regard to support for producers in less-favoured areas.
– of course it is of the utmost importance to clearly stress in the framework of this report the necessity to maintain direct payments not only in the case of climate-related crisis or market failures but also to balance fairly the high european standards in terms of environmental, animal and consumer protection.
in a world of climate change, rising energy demands and energy prices, reducing energy dependence and consumption, and diversifying energy sources, is an absolute priority, a key interest of the union.
the increasing use of renewable energy sources is an integral part of this.
in the field of renewable energy sources, different countries have different capacities, which we should exploit to the fullest.
biogas has a huge potential and a great future as a renewable energy source, for a number of reasons listed in the report we are discussing today.
first and foremost, ladies and gentlemen, the main raw material for biogas is animal manure, and its processing for environmental purposes and energy production can be linked.
this is one of the most important benefits of biogas production, although of course biogas can be produced not only from animal manure but also from municipal sludge, slaughterhouse waste and power plants.
biogas is a multifunctional energy source: it can be used for electricity, heating, cooling and drying.
biogas production is therefore a major opportunity for european energy production in this sense.
this is a very serious potential, because from an environmental point of view, we know that we cannot put animal manure on the land without proper processing, because that would be very serious environmental damage.
however, i have been assured by the european commission officials, and in consultation with the european people's party, that there is no need for a separate biogas directive, but that a directive on renewable energy sources is being prepared, and that the biogas problem can be solved within this framework.
i would ask the commission to pay particular attention to the renewable energy directive, to use the suggestions in my report.
these include climate change, increasing poverty, energy efficiency and security, and the use of renewable energy sources.
we must therefore not only respond to the challenges facing the union, but also try to address the difficulties of the 27 countries through coordinated policy measures along the lines of a common strategy for sustainable agriculture.
in particular, in this light, i welcome the initiative of my colleague mr tabajdi csaba on biogas and sustainable agriculture and congratulate him on his excellent report.
i think it is important to have an eu renewable energy directive, which will bring eu regulation and national policies, eu and national regulation, into line.
in addition to union aid, favourable conditions should be created in the member states to facilitate the establishment and operation of biogas plants, for example by providing price support to member states or by other measures to promote the use of the new energy source.
the additional advantage of biogas as an energy source is that it has a significant value-adding potential in farms and rural regions, helping to increase the economic viability of these areas, and it is therefore important to ensure that disadvantaged regions can also exploit these opportunities.
clearly, the debate today has confirmed that neither biogas, bioenergy nor renewable energy sources are miracles in themselves, but they are extremely important in diversifying energy.
it was not clear - i say this to mr parish - that i will have an oral amendment tomorrow, in which i will withdraw my proposal for a directive on biogas and biowaste and propose it in the framework of the single renewable energy directive.
i'm going to send it to dear avril, where "potential environmental problems", so there are very accurate calculations on those issues, on the escaped gases, and thank god it's reassuring to me, but i'm not an environmental expert.
pesticides, on the one hand, are an important and essential support to modern european agriculture but, on the other hand, the non-sufficient pesticide use and the use of harmful substances are responsible for health problems, fatal accidents and environmental pollution.
the directive on pesticide use, the thematic strategy on sustainable pesticide use and the regulation on pesticide authorisations.
biocides therefore have almost the same health and environmental impact.
it does not make any difference after it has been released into the environment whether the substance was produced as biocide or as a plant production product.
business confidentiality is always a sensitive issue and, therefore, i am pleased we all accept that this directive takes into account the obligations under the aarhus convention on access to environmental information.
however, these chemicals have adverse effects on human health and the environment.
the framework directive on the sustainable use of plant protection products, which was noted by my colleague, christa klaß, is the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides, written this year by belohorská, and the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market, whereby hiltrud breyer, the european parliament's thematic coordinator, has set the direction for the future of the sustainable use of plant protection products.
in view of climate change, energy challenges and stabilisation of financial markets.
it is becoming more urgent to reach agreement on climate and energy issues.
to find an effective solution to europe's energy dependence, while maintaining the economic competitiveness of european products.
the motto of this council meeting is: we can't waste time.
in this europe, the objective is not to improve the quantity and quality of jobs in general, but to ensure that the activity is sustainable and life-saving in the long term, which is also a requirement and should be seen as a common value.
− mr president, we agreed to change paragraph 41 and not to propose a specific biogas eu directive but to integrate it into the draft renewable energy directive.
the text is as follows: ‘proposes the comprehensive inclusion of the promotion of biogas in the framework of the draft renewable energy directive with special emphasis on the following elements:’.
i welcome the european commission's initiative for a new energy efficiency and renewable energy source.
one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century is to ensure that we have an adequate supply of energy without compromising our environmental values, our strategic security or our competitiveness.
the cheapest energy, of course, is the energy we don't use, so it's the energy we save.
energy efficiency, in this age of energy quality, is a fundamental concern for everyone, both consumers and the wider community.
the left-wing view is that energy conservation, energy efficiency, is also a social issue, because often the poorest people waste the most energy.
this is particularly true for residential homes in the new member states, such as hungary, where they use more than twice as much energy per square metre as in western europe.
district heating is in principle an energy-saving system, with the particular advantage of being easily convertible to renewable energy, which in the case of individual heating has to be solved per household.
in addition, a single eu tax credit could be envisaged to help create energy saving investments and funds.
we want to have a broad debate on our relationship where all significant issues will be addressed, from trade to investment – which is booming – and energy, democracy, and also human rights.
the decision of the croatian parliament to suspend the application of the fisheries and ecological zones to member states was a major help in this respect.
despite the substantial efforts made by croatia to meet eu standards, there are still areas where attention should given such as: the fight against corruption and organised crime, cooperation with the international criminal tribunal, the fight against all forms of discrimination (especially with regard to the roma and national minorities), the sound use of community funds, environmental protection measures and public administration reform.
we know the causes: unhealthy diet, lack of exercise, contraceptives, alcohol, smoking, and environmental damage.
chemical pollution, air pollution, is one of the major causes of cancer.
but even in the field of environmental protection, there is not the kind of social awareness that would make us understand that certain chemicals need to be removed from our bodies, that excessive traffic in a city is unhealthy for city dwellers, that we need to change our whole life to reduce toxins and pollution.
so i want to make it clear to us that fighting cancer, living a healthy life, and protecting the environment are all intertwined.
there are many areas where the objectives of the sixth environmental programme are lagging behind.
in many cities, the objectives of the urban environment strategy seem very far off in the absence of community legislation.
the commission must therefore come up with legislation that defines the framework for urban environments and urban transport throughout the union, otherwise our citizens will continue to suffer from bad air and other pollution.
as the foaming of the hungarian river rabah, polluted by austrian tanneries, shows, current regulations are not able to prevent water pollution.
let me start by saying that i don't agree with the implementation of the sixth environmental action programme going as planned.
there is no doubt that the implementation of the sixth action programme is lagging behind, its key environmental objectives have not been achieved and the implementation of legislation is stalled in the member states.
i myself have approached the commission with a complaint about the pollution of natura 2000 sites, but the commission has just sat by and did nothing.
thirdly, there has been a dangerous increase in the illegal dumping of hazardous and municipal waste on the territory of another country.
africa, asia are often the targets of european waste - this is unacceptable.
how is it that several german states illegally take thousands of tonnes of waste to eastern europe and then refuse to return it?
fourthly, what happened to the fine principle of preventing cross-border pollution?
the european commission's green paper on mitigating the negative effects of climate change is a welcome development.
however forward-looking the eu's proposals to combat climate change may be, we must live with the consequences of changing climate today.
perhaps the most spectacular manifestations of climate extremes in the carpathian basin have been the record floods of the past decade.
as far as the environmental aspects of the parts of the eec that have been identified so far are concerned, we can be basically confident.
i also welcome the intention to promote the practice of sustainable development in developing countries, in particular with regard to its biodiversity and energy aspects.
there are growing concerns that the re-prioritization toward competitiveness, climate change or sustainable development would be made at the cost of other priorities budgets.
the work of the european environment agency is essential in the collection and synthesis of environmental information, and the european medicines agency plays a major role in the protection of public and animal health.
our entire climate, and our future, depends on preserving the original extent of the rain forests that sustain life in brazil, colombia, ecuador, venezuela, and many other south american countries.
and with it, the richness of biodiversity, flora and fauna.
it is therefore important that cooperation between the european union and latin american countries focuses on environmental protection and appropriate climate policies.
our development and support policy must make mutual respect for environmental standards a basic condition.
illegal logging reduces biodiversity, causes erosion, and contributes to 20% of greenhouse gas emissions.
conservation of biodiversity is an important public task.
there was no environmental impact study, no recovery and protection plan, and no legal authorisation to organise the race.
there is no revenue that can compensate for the environmental damage that has been caused.
the green tax, the environmental foundation of all taxation policy, is a market-based, sustainable tool for a better and more livable world.
as for the increased taxation of raw materials, the single energy tax could force us to reduce our dependence on energy imports, to drive less, to reinvent public transport, the electricity grid, the railway.
emissions of pollutants, taxation of non-recyclable waste reduces pollution, the associated public diseases, reduces premature and unnecessary death.
reducing energy consumption would also increase the competitiveness of our goods.
in order to achieve environmental objectives, member states now favour almost exclusively direct requirements.
among these, we believe that market-based environmental incentives should receive priority attention.
we believe that the market, competition and environmental protection are not mutually exclusive.
the importance of market incentives lies in the fact that they achieve the environmental quality they set as an objective in a cheaper and more efficient manner.
perhaps the emissions trading system is the only exception.
we are convinced that ambitious eu environmental policy objectives cannot be achieved without the use of market incentives.
in the region of central and eastern europe, we must also confront the environmental legacy of communism.
our countries, including romania, were almost unprepared for the change of system in the development of environmental strategies.
i support the report by mr hartmut nassauer, member of the european parliament, on the criminal law protection of the environment and urge that those who cause serious environmental damage be held criminally liable by tightening and enforcing eu legislation.
deforestation in the szeklerland and other parts of romania is also damaging the environment.
the transylvania highway could cause serious environmental damage.
to this end, energy issues should be given a central role in that agreement, taking into account the principle of reciprocity.
one of the most important conditions for establishing reciprocity is that russia ratifies the energy charter.
the agreement creates transparency in the energy market, contributes to security of supply and stimulates investment.
the ratification of the energy charter by the kremlin is therefore in the common interest.
in the last 50 years, the world's population has doubled, and energy consumption has quadrupled.
because it's an intermediate energy carrier.
however, it can only be considered as an alternative to fossil fuels if it can be produced from renewable energy sources at a competitive price and without emitting carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.
specific attention should therefore be given to sectors related to the new digital environment.
the next generation must learn to accept and respect otherness, in addition to energy efficiency and environmental protection.
i also demanded urgent intervention by the italian authorities to ensure fundamental rights and protect roma in the country from further acts of violent, racist aggression and to defuse the climate of anti-romany hostility prevailing in italy.
so it is not only our global responsibility, but also our own interest to reduce mercury pollution in the third world.
the debate about the science behind climate change is very important because unfortunately, we politicians often ignore the facts, and the facts are very stubborn things.
for example, between the danube and the tisza in hungary, in the 30 to 40 years of the hungarian era, the groundwater level dropped by 3 to 4 meters, and there was a lot of desertification, which means that scientists estimated that 50% of this desertification was caused by climate change and 50% by human mismanagement.
the european environment agency found that carbon dioxide emissions in the european union have not only decreased since 2000, but have also increased slightly, by 1%.
the stern report showed that without an adaptation fund, the rest of the world has very little chance of escaping the unpleasant consequences of climate change.
taking account of the scientifically substantiated characteristics of climate change is essential for making decisions in this area.
one thing is certain: climate change is a scientific fact, and it requires quick and effective solutions.
a calm consideration of scientific facts can also help us to assess how market-based environmental instruments can contribute to improving environmental quality.
the creation of an emissions trading system, which takes a market-based approach to reducing emissions, is a welcome development.
the operation of the system is evidence that market, competition and environmental protection are not mutually exclusive.
the measures taken in these two areas do not meet the sustainability requirements and do not provide a market-friendly solution to the problem.
we would like to emphasise that climate change requires measures that are not only scientifically sound but also take account of market mechanisms.
it is not because there is no common energy policy that the eu member states have concluded a bilateral agreement, but because there is no common energy policy, there is no basis for adjustment, there is no basis for reconciling the interests of the member states, and therefore the criticism of the wolski report is unacceptable.
we believe that energy cooperation should be placed high on the agenda.
energy security remains a priority on both sides of the atlantic.
it is important to emphasise that the spread of democratic principles also means greater security of energy supply.
in addition to the above, future cooperation should focus increasingly on the fight against climate change.
the recent package of emissions reduction proposals in the us congress is yet another sign that washington wants to take an active role in the fight against climate change.
oil prices at previously unimaginable levels are urgently calling for concerted international action on energy policy.
"hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier dwa bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki" - "hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier dwa bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki" - "hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier dwa bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki" - "hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier two bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki" - "hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier two bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki"
madam president, in europe we are currently recycling only 27% of our waste and almost half of our waste ends up in landfills.
this shows that we have to fundamentally change our waste management.
most importantly we should encourage waste prevention, strengthen reuse and recycling and minimise the amount of landfill waste.
therefore i welcome the fact that the waste hierarchy remained in the new compromise text after some debate.
as regards prevention – the main aim of the legislation – i miss the waste stabilisation targets in the latest text, but we had already adopted them in the first reading.
in the old member states one person generates almost twice as much household waste – 570 kg per year – as a person in the new member states – 300 to 350 kg per year.
so the rich nations should start to decrease waste production first.
the amount of generated waste is increasing on a european scale.
therefore prevention programmes, as proposed in the compromise, are not enough: we must set binding targets to halt the growing waste generation.
that is why i consider supporting amendment 48 which reintroduces the waste stabilisation target.
i welcome the mandatory waste reuse and recycling targets, but i am afraid that the new text, which says that member states ‘shall take the necessary measures’ to achieve the targets is not enough.
we need concrete, enforceable and binding targets, both for household and industrial waste.
at present, the selective collection rate for municipal waste in hungary is 2%.
in recent years, the number of waste management investments in the eastern half of europe has increased, mainly due to the support received from ispa and the cohesion funds.
the main landfill sites were built and selective collection programmes were initiated in several municipalities, and in some places measures were taken to collect organic waste separately.
there were no real waste prevention measures or investments and there is still no visible processing industry.
statistics show that virtually any community can achieve a 50% waste reduction by implementing dry recycling and home-based separate collection of organic waste.
if not, then despite the need to increase separate collection, despite the legislation to reduce the amount of waste landfilled, the contracts concluded for 20 years require that the waste collected be landfilled in the built-up landfill.
madam president, i have to ask you... the waste directive in its present form unfortunately threatens the spread of biogas use.
i fully agree with my colleague mr schnellhardt of the european people's party that this directive is not suitable for biogas production, either in terms of the use of slurry or municipal waste.
the waste directive in its present form unfortunately threatens the spread of biogas use and the jackson report is therefore very questionable.
the definition of animal manure used in biogas production as waste in the waste directive is not clear.
if it were to be covered by the directive, it would make it impossible to produce biogas from animal manure, which has significant energy, environmental and climate protection benefits.
i want to bring to your attention a question that has not been addressed before, and that is the fact that with climate change, precipitation is becoming more extreme, and with it, the distribution curve of freshwater availability, which means long, hot, dry summers and flood-like rainfall across europe.
therefore, in addition to all the environmental care mentioned above, there is a need for water management that, unlike the current system, basically captures water and allows it to be stored for the dry season.
therefore, the report should not examine precisely defined sustainability criteria, in particular inflation or debt, or real convergence in numbers and separately, since all euro area member states should be given the same confidence in their ability to achieve sustainability from the first moment of membership.
the new waste directive contains compromises and can therefore be attacked from several angles.
the main merit of the directive is the adoption of a waste hierarchy.
prevention comes first, then recycling in various forms, and then waste, which should be avoided if possible, but at least reduced.
i was very pleased to vote for the legislation on environmental quality standards for water, and i would also like to thank all 610 of my colleagues who voted in favour of the legislation.
drafted by the committee on industry, research and energy.
in recent years, rising prices and opaque regulation have led to a marked increase in dissatisfaction among energy consumers.
the new regulation will finally create real competition in the energy market and allow providers to compete for consumers.
the energy package can also create more favourable conditions for investments that are essential for the future of europe's energy supply.
it promotes the cause of energy efficiency, and i believe it will facilitate the spread of renewable energy.
this is particularly important because the runaway cost of energy has become one of the most important drivers of poverty.
i believe that energy policy ambitions should always be viewed in the light of consumer satisfaction.
we have made a huge step in one year, because a common energy policy can be a huge step for the whole union.
an energy policy that serves the strategic interests of the eu member states, the rights and protection of europe's citizens, the competitiveness and growth of the european economy and the protection of our environment.
the five proposals envisage a market integration in which, in addition to the separation and transparency of energy production, transmission and distribution tasks, the fundamental rights and protection of energy consumers are given greater emphasis than ever before in the transformation of the operation of energy companies.
the clean competition of the market, the promotion of crossborder energy trade and the quality of consumer demand will have to be monitored by an authority independent of industry and governments, with greater powers than at present, in the framework of a european coordination.
this is why european legislation has moved decisively towards the creation of the european agency for energy regulation and cooperation.
you have all been reminded that europe's energy supply is not an ideological issue.
continents are entering the energy race, and let's face it: no one can be shut out of electricity or motorization.
energy policy aims at securing europe's energy supply and competitiveness.
i would like to conclude, however, by saying that the socialists believe that the consumer should be treated as a central element of european energy policy.
we promote cycling and public transportation to protect the environment, but are we thinking about ourselves, about people?
the treaty of lisbon, by the way, introduces this system in the delegated acts itself, but it would have been wrong to waste two years without the comitology procedure.
we need to invest much more in the development of low-energy, environmentally friendly technologies, as commissioner piebalgs said, in renewable energy sources and in the establishment of biogas plants, than i was the rapporteur for.
conscious energy conservation is also important, such as better insulation in homes.
we welcome the intention of the new partnership agreement, which should cover the energy sector and include the principles of the energy charter.
the union needs russia, but make no mistake, russia needs europe just as much as russia needs europe as an economic partner and as an energy consumer.
we are interdependent on energy and on many other issues.
it causes traffic jams in roads and urban areas, serious environmental and public health problems, energy waste and, above all, accidents.
because i believe that each of them, and each of us, has the right to safe, sustainable and efficient mobility.
at the same time, i look forward to the next progress reports and am confident that i will contribute, with my modest means, to the goal of spreading life-saving, environmental and traffic-optimising systems as widely as possible.
we know that if we want to respond properly to climate change, one of the most important tools we have, one of the most important weapons we have, is to make intelligent transportation a reality.
europeans waste precious minutes, half an hour, on the roads.
it is in our common interest to recognise that if we achieve results in this area, then everyone can really benefit from it, because we can travel safer, traffic will be optimized, pollution will be reduced, and european industry will be able to take the lead in information and communication technologies.
allergic diseases are caused by contaminated food, polluted environment.
my group will support the tripartite amendment on climate change and look forward to seeing what is behind the surprising reduction in the level of payments.
this includes resources that serve the objectives of climate change and secure competitive energy supply.
it would be even better to have separate chapters on these challenges, namely reducing co2 emissions, energy saving and renewable energy, thus also contributing to the development of a common sustainable european energy policy.
i congratulate åsa westlund on her report, which has succeeded in ensuring that additives harmful to human health and the environment cannot be used in the future under the new legislation.
the baltic sea gas pipeline is one of the most controversial issues in the emerging common energy policy.
and finally, there is no clear answer to the questions on the agenda today: what are the environmental consequences of the nord stream project?
i believe it is essential that the construction of gas pipelines, such as nord stream, which are intended to determine europe's energy supply for decades, be preceded by an appropriate impact assessment.
of course, this must include consideration of environmental impacts.
in our case, such a thorough and unbiased analysis, which also takes into account environmental considerations, is unfortunately not available.
the report before us, however, sheds light on the environmental concerns that are being raised by the baltic sea pipeline.
i think it is wrong that no detailed analysis has been made of the environmental impact of drilling the seabed for 1200 km.
i believe that environmental protection and energy security should not be at odds.
if the european parliament is to become a genuine citizen-friendly institution, it must take account of the 30,000 signatures on various petitions calling attention to the environmental risks of the baltic sea gas pipeline and give a meaningful answer to the questions raised.
addressing the serious challenges of climate change, strengthening and accelerating action on the issue is an unavoidable task.
it is essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including from aviation, and to set an accurate emission ceiling for the period after 2012. the reduction of greenhouse gases will only be achieved if the emissions trading system is tightened.
climate change is a global phenomenon.
all policy instruments and negotiating means should be used to involve all the world's major greenhouse gas emitters in the global reduction of pollution.
the european council, together with the european parliament, decided to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020, and even by 30% in its international agreements, and by 2050 it has set a target of -60% and -80% respectively.
if we lived in a perfect world where we had unlimited and cheap fuel available to us and where there were no growing environmental problems, i would not have voted for this legislation.
but we don't live in a perfect world, fuel is dwindling, fuel is going up, and we have to do something to stop climate change now.
and we have to stop climate change.
the surge in energy prices is a stronger reminder than ever of the lack of effective regulation in the energy market.
the new rules are unlikely to eliminate this dependence all at once, but they do create a more transparent environment.
this is especially important when we know that rising energy prices have become one of the biggest drivers of poverty.
one of the key tasks of the french presidency will be to coordinate member states' climate change commitments.
it is very important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at eu level.
this can happen if we take the kyoto protocol seriously and, as it says, continuously and significantly reduce emissions from the base year of 1990. it would be particularly scandalous if those member states which increased their emissions rather than reducing them between 1990 and 2005 were now rewarded by the european union with the possibility of maintaining their advantage contrary to the kyoto treaty.
it would be even more outrageous if the member states that take the kyoto treaty seriously and decently reduce their emissions - and thus hungary - were to be punished by further restrictions.
not just through energy flows, but through the columns of chariots that line up in georgia.
the globally harmonised system is a promising sign of global cooperation in environmental issues.
however, the same environmental committee also adopted several amendments from the rapporteur which would weaken consumers’ rights regarding information on the hazards of the chemicals in products.
– sustainable and efficient freight transport must indeed seriously be improved as the transport sector is responsible for a large share of co2 emissions in the union.
as the sector is expected to grow substantially, increasing its efficiency and sustainability should be seen as an opportunity to develop its economic competitiveness and to create numerous jobs.
the union should therefore allocate resources sufficient to achieve the ambitious objectives of improved mobility, intermodality in transport modes, energy efficiency, reduced consumption of oil and reduced pollution.
to ensure the success of a sustainable european transport policy, we – of course – have to bear in mind the importance of fostering synergies and complementarities with other european policies such as energy and environment policies.
cross-border harmonisation of national rules and synergy with the other related policies are necessary conditions for the achievement of the objectives of sustainable and efficient freight transport.
the ries report on the mid-term review of the european environment and health action plan addresses important issues.
global climate change in hungary and many other eu countries is basically extreme rainfall distribution.
this is linked to the provision of safe drinking water throughout the union, the use of heat sources in the form of thermal waters and geothermal energy.
there are a lot of things that are not rational in this system, like not planting the crop after harvest, energy loss.
the only way to stop climate change is to stop deforestation.
our efforts to protect the environment in europe will be ineffective if we tolerate environmental degradation in other parts of the world.
the liberalization of international trade, globalization, is driving environmental destruction across continents.
the wto rules must be supplemented by strict environmental standards, otherwise further liberalisation will lead to further environmental destruction.
there is no longer any doubt that deforestation and forest degradation have an impact on climate change and biodiversity.
to be precise, global deforestation now affects 13 million hectares a year and is the third largest source of greenhouse gas emissions.
only such an agreement could make a significant contribution to the protection of forests and the sustainable use of timber.
mr president, i would like to speak about only one aspect of energy prices, namely the price of district heating.
this contradicts common sense and the basic interests of the environment.
as long as district heating is more expensive in some member states than individual heating, it is nonsense to speak about energy efficiency.
in recent months, we have seen unprecedented increases in energy prices.
the increase in energy-related costs could have a very negative impact on europe's competitiveness.
as a result, rising energy prices have become one of the most sensitive policy issues.
that is why the rise in energy prices has become one of the most important sources of social discontent in hungary.
every effort should be made to ensure that the system of long-term international contracts governing energy supply is transparent.
at the same time, measures to promote competition and improve energy efficiency should be strengthened at both community and member state level.
the european union must take substantive steps to achieve this, in particular by developing alternative energy supply routes.
i should also like to say something about solidarity: if you had the common agricultural policy five years after the creation of the european economic community, you could have the common energy security policy four or five years after enlargement.
unfortunately, after the foaming of the river raba, i have to speak in the european parliament about another austro-hungarian environmental debate.
the austrian company begas is planning to build a waste incineration plant with a capacity of 325 000 tonnes in heiligenkreuze, just a few hundred metres from the hungarian border.
the power plant will be capable of processing waste not only from the province but also from other places.
the fact that the city of szentgotthárd in hungary and the natura 2000 protected national park, which includes the recently awarded eden reserve, are located less than one kilometre to the north of the planned waste incineration plant is a cause for serious concern.
the negotiations can only be resumed if they are extended to environmental issues.
without this, further liberalisation of world trade will lead to even more abhorrent destruction of the environment and acceleration of climate change.
climate change is likely to make the impact of seasonal water shortages even more acute, with each drop of wasted water having consequences.
water scarcity and drought are among the most pressing problems facing the european union today and as such, they are complex issues that need to be addressed in close cooperation with and with due regard to other environmental issues.
regulatory fora at different levels should work together to develop a framework for sustainable water management.
the arctic has become a symbol of climate change in recent years.
on the other hand, given the growing demand in europe, the untapped energy resources in the north pole could contribute to ensuring european supply.
however, it should be pointed out that the extraction must not affect the biological balance of the area: environmental considerations must be taken into account in all circumstances.
it is important to note that the exploitation of the arctic is expected to play only an ancillary role in europe's energy supply.
these sources should therefore not replace measures to promote the use of renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency.
this type of environment denies romani children the chance to exercise their existing rights which they deserve.
the well-being of children is based on a healthy environment, decent housing, adequate nutrition, and access to education and care.
mr president, we frequently hear the opinion that symbols are a waste of time and that the european union should not concern itself with such irrelevant questions.
i myself, as the rapporteur for the 2009 budget, tried to make a statement on behalf of the committee on the environment and public health (envi).
as my colleague mr peter arbeloa muru points out, there is a close link between the new health threats and climate change.
on 7 october the committee on budgets adopted the pilot project i had submitted entitled 'comprehensive research on health, the environment, transport and climate change - improving indoor and outdoor air quality'.
this eur 4 million initiative, led by the hungarian-based regional environmental center for central and eastern europe, would be implemented in nine countries (austria, bosnia and herzegovina, finland, hungary, italy, the netherlands, norway, serbia, slovakia).
the project explores the relationship and impact of health, environment, transport and climate change in schools simultaneously.
climate change in central europe appears to be mainly due to the radical dispersal of rainfall.
it also indicates that climate change has begun.
european climate policies must therefore address not only the slowing down of climate change but also the prevention of the impacts that are already occurring, and mitigate the damage.
public opinion is primarily sympathetic to the bereaved mother, but it is also sympathetic to the bereaved father when the child is placed in a strange and bad environment.
we need some kind of digital environmental protection.
and this preparation is primarily the responsibility of the immediate environment: parents, family, school.
the bill we are about to vote on is of particular importance, but it can only be effective if it is coupled with careful attention to the child's environment.
given that in some countries it is a good practice to block websites with pedophilic content on domestic and foreign servers with the consent of the judicial authorities, and that in general the current legal environment of the countries allows for the removal of such content, i call on the judicial authorities of the member states to take the first steps necessary to block it.
the economic rationality underlying the construction of the european exchange-rate mechanism should be readapted to the current financial circumstances so as to create the conditions for sustainable financial markets in countries acceding to the euro zone.
the european parliament should be obliged to be involved in matters of health and environmental safety in the case of genetically modified micro-organisms.
i am pleased that my amendments in this respect, which were unanimously supported by the committee on the environment, have now been voted by the european parliament.
the eu has to find the best common approach to deal with russia on issues such as current global economic challenges, energy, economic interdependence, non-proliferation, terrorism and climate change, because these matters are in our fundamental mutual interest.
in our discussion this morning, we agreed on one thing: the world is heading for an environmental catastrophe.
neither the financial crisis nor any other factor should force us to give up our leadership role in creating a more sustainable development.
on the one hand, we pay more attention to environmental aspects than to vehicles purchased through public procurement, we can set a good example from the public sector side, and on the other hand, we can achieve an increase in orders that makes it more economical to develop cleaner technologies.
this regulation is not only important for the environment but is also a key chance to preserve a strong european car industry, so we need to introduce it as widely as possible and as quickly as possible.
drafted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
as rapporteur for the 2009 eu budget on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to express my satisfaction with the material before us.
one of the most important changes is that next year there will be 10% more resources available for environmental protection than in 2008. this will allow us to spend 14 billion euros on environmental protection.
i particularly welcome the fact that climate change is one of the priorities for next year.
europe must maintain its leading role in the international fight against climate change, as president sarkozy stressed yesterday.
i think it is a great opportunity to launch the so-called pilot projects, of which three proposals on environmental protection and public health are supported by the european commission this year, worth eur 7.5 million.
never before have so many projects dealing with climate change and its effects been launched within a year.
these proposals were supported by parliament's committee on the environment and budget.
for security, we need multiple, independent sources of energy.
the result is the transparency of state or other public support, which is also an important factor in the competition of airports, as well as increased consideration of environmental aspects.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy.
carbon capture and storage has become an essential part of the climate change dialogue.
its future use could be a realistic compromise between the inevitability of fossil fuels and climate objectives.
since carbon capture requires significant and long-term investment, it is essential that the european union establishes a consistent and stable regulatory framework.
i believe that the climate package, as amended by parliament, has set good standards in this area.
if carbon capture and storage is a viable option, there will be companies willing to take an active part in the investment.
it is important to note in addition to the above that the promotion of carbon capture cannot divert resources from renewable energy sources.
the technology we are discussing is a possible solution, but it is far from the only solution, to mitigate the effects of climate change.
as the environment committee's lead on the subject, i welcome the outcome of the vote.
it is a technique that can, in good circumstances, provide a partial solution to climate change, but it must not be allowed to distract us from the importance of the whole climate package.
the new member states, such as hungary, have significantly reduced their greenhouse gas emissions since the late 1980s.
it would be grossly unfair to punish those who have caused the increase in emissions.
we would also give 10% to those who have reduced their emissions over the last decade and a half.
in the committee on the environment, we have succeeded in exempting district heating from the climate tax, and this achievement must be maintained for the benefit of millions of low-income european citizens.
to deal with this crisis, we need a sustainable solution, and if we are to do that, we need to transform the world, and we need to make it a much more just, humane and rational place.
promoting immigration as a common response requires not only eu regulation but also a balanced strategy that takes into account both sustainable development and social balance.
such as understanding and monitoring climate change, or building our security in defense, in disaster prevention, or in the ever-expanding range of navigation and communications services.
in the backward areas, in settlements, there are settlements, parts of settlements that are not suitable for renovation, and in their place, the construction of modern, energy-saving housing should be initiated.
this will help to achieve the union's energy saving and job creation objectives, while also providing a significant boost to the most deprived.
the thousands of roma ghettos can only be dismantled by reintegration into the labour market, by making the most of new and unexplored areas of the economy, such as renewable and alternative energy or environmental protection, and by creating quality integrated education.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we think it is very important to think small first in order to improve the access to finance; very important to think small first to simplify the regulatory environment; and very important to think small first to facilitate market access.
we are all committed to stopping climate change, to preventing the global environmental catastrophe that threatens humanity.
nor do i understand why the cement industry has to cut twice as much as the waste industry or transportation.
not a wise government that takes its citizens' money abroad in the form of cdm, but one that invests it at home, within the eu, reducing our energy dependence by creating new, marketable, clean technologies.
mr president, many of the new member states, like hungary after the end of the 1980s and the collapse of the old industry, reduced their greenhouse gas emissions.
the decision of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety that gives free allowances for district heating in the ets is essential for us, and we must keep this achievement during the trialogue as well.
i think that the use of carbon capture and storage should be judged by the market and the competition.
when we talk about developments in the eu climate package, we cannot leave out the possible consequences of the financial crisis.
if governments focus their accumulated financial reserves on bank bailouts, vital energy investments may be delayed.
despite the crisis, europe urgently needs to invest in the deployment of renewable energy sources and in substantial improvements in energy efficiency.
the commission has therefore decided to set up a european energy fund.
the financial instrument in question would primarily promote energy efficiency improvements and the uptake of renewable energy sources.
moreover, if we really want to strengthen the common eu energy and climate policy, this will have to be reflected in the next seven-year budget.
while strengthening community support, member states should be given sufficient freedom to define their own climate policy toolbox, taking into account different regional characteristics.
the temporary reduction in the price of conventional energy sources should not lull decision-makers; it should not put an end to commitments on renewable energy sources.
if the european union loses sight of its own objectives in the face of the crisis, this could have a detrimental impact on its credibility and its leadership in the field of climate change.
biofuels play an important role in renewable energy, but if used carelessly, they can cause serious tragedies.
the future of the climate package is still uncertain, as it will be decided in a few days or weeks.
but i would like to emphasize one thing: district heating has been exempted from the so-called climate tax.
on the other hand, we should also be aware that district heating is an environmentally friendly heating method, since individual heating is in any case exempt from any climate tax, and i therefore think that the support thus generated should be given to modernise district heating systems.
thirdly, the energy-climate package is the result of a historic compromise.
the strategy should also address issues closely related to the social inclusion of roma, such as environmental protection, health, multiple discrimination or the fight against anti-roma sentiment in the media and other areas of social life.
the international trade commission considers that international trade in biofuels, which may in this context be essentially imports from third countries, should not lead to environmental degradation and increased hunger at the global level.
i believe that europe is capable of producing biofuels and that the main way to reduce our energy dependence is to use biofuels produced in europe.
the committee on agriculture is pleased that the european commission has kept its word, because a year ago, when my report on biogas was adopted by parliament, mrs fischer-boel and i agreed that there would be no separate directive on biomass, but that the issue of biomass would be dealt with in the context of renewable energy sources.
the committee on agriculture considers that biomass and biogas have a key role to play in renewable energy sources, but that biomass is unacceptable if it means deforestation and depriving crops of land suitable for food production.
we know that this is a very controversial form of energy, because if we import it from the third world, it threatens to destroy the rainforest, or it induces hunger in a lot of places.
at the same time, third generation biofuels in particular can also benefit our entire energy balance, so i think that we should basically produce biofuels from our own sources, basically using the surplus capacity of european agriculture for this purpose.
if we could use these to produce biofuels in a pioneering way, while preserving the natural values of the area - and not by intensive cultivation - then we would be serving both the environment and the objective, as mr turmes said, of sourcing them primarily from our own sources, within europe...
drafted by the committee on regional development.
most of our proposals were aimed at recognising that this objective fundamentally affects the economic and social cohesion of the regions and that reducing co2 emissions can only be effectively achieved if it is integrated into cohesion policy.
the greenhouse gas emission reduction considerations should be included in the conditionality of aid for structural improvements.
i am very sorry that the minister is not in the chamber, but my group welcomes and supports the new eu climate and energy package and, as part of it, the legislation on burden sharing between member states.
this is a significant step forward for the epp-ed, as previously unregulated areas will be regulated, so that from 2013 all sources of co2 emissions will be measured and regulated.
the biggest advantage of the package is that i propose that there will be a trading system in the area of 'effort sharing', which will allow us to stimulate carbon reduction through market mechanisms, as in the ets.
the primary objective of the epp is to increase eco-innovation within the union, to make the eu economy the most competitive in low-carbon technologies.
it is also regrettable that the prime minister's decision to require european companies to reduce emissions by two and a half times as much as member states is a particularly uneven burden-sharing in the current economic climate, to the detriment of european industry.
member states have also been biased against each other, failing to reward those who have delivered on commitments and failing to punish those who have undermined the union's credibility on climate.
at the same time, quota trading provides significant funding opportunities for already well-performing cee countries to achieve further carbon reductions in their domestic transport and agricultural sectors, which have high savings potential.
overall, this legislation is complementary and, despite its shortcomings, is a pioneering step on the european union's long journey towards a climate-sustainable, low-carbon european society.
the european union has already made a strong commitment to combating climate change by adopting the climate and energy package.
while the climate package has undergone a significant change compared to the commission's proposal, the most controversial contradiction has not been resolved.
the regulation adopted by the council, by incorrectly setting the base year, covers up the member states' efforts to date in the field of emissions.
we find it unacceptable that the present proposal treats equally those who have reduced their emissions to a large extent and those who have even increased them.
we believe that the eu's ambitious climate targets are a step forward.
geological storage of carbon dioxide is undoubtedly an exciting technical challenge.
however, it should not be forgotten that the ultimate goal of saving the environment and mitigating climate change is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
this means reducing the use of fossil fuels rather than finding alternatives to storing emissions underground.
that kind of money could probably be spent in more useful ways, like supporting renewable energy.
if geological storage of carbon dioxide is really as good a solution as its proponents claim, then it has to survive in the market, in the market competition.
the amendments by the european people's party and the european democrats have increased this by about 1 billion euros and thus made it more visible, so to support small businesses, to preserve jobs, if possible to increase their number, to develop the backward areas, to energy security, to support the design of projects such as nabucco.
this package set out five main priorities: modern environmental protection (including a 10% increase in the life programme), innovative business development, the fight against corruption, progressive social policies and a substantial increase in the world's largest student exchange programme, erasmus mundus.
as i said at its first reading in october, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i welcome the eu budget for 2009 in several respects.
on the one hand, it is significant and gratifying that next year 14 billion euros will be available for environmental protection, nature conservation and, above all, life+.
on the other hand, it is worth noting that this amount is about 10% higher than last year, which shows that no one is doubting the importance of this area, especially climate change.
of course, all of this is tied to the southern vote today, where we're deciding on the climate package.
i'm the one who introduced the amendment that would give district heating a free quota, exempting community heating from the climate tax.
many activities are exempted from paying the climate tax that should not be exempted.
i voted in favour of the climate package, although it's hard to see a clear positive.
but the targets that have been set do not reflect what our scientists have set as goals to stop climate change, humanity's greatest challenge.
europe's task is to build a model of a low-carbon economy and society, as europe has one of the greatest potential to create the technology needed to do so.
the main problem with this legislation is that some central and eastern european countries have already significantly reduced their greenhouse gas emissions since the late 1980s.
we got something, but you have to know that the eu's climate assessment would be much worse without the efforts of the new member states.
the compromise was agreed for climate protection and common european action.