in many cases i keep hearing the argument that helping small airports will increase the carbon footprint but i do not think that is true.
rules adopted at eu level are vital for the provision of a high level of protection of the environment and public health, and we aspire to these rules being extended internationally.
your experience, mr prime minister, as a rebel in one sense, as an intellectual but, most importantly of all, as a democrat and as the voice of reason that could lead your country from the dark ages of communism into the bright lights – sometimes dimmed because of energy crises – and future of the european union, that kind of image and that kind of imagery is what is most important to the people of bosnia, serbia, kosovo and, indeed, turkey.
other than political and security conditions, as i have already outlined in my opening remarks, the following key elements need to be there for a proper election environment.
there is plenty of talk but no action in this area, and it is one of the great deceptions we have that we are actually going to show any change or any impact on the ground by 2010. i mean, i agree with synergies between different policies, but protection of biodiversity can help limit atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations because forests, peat lands and other man-made ecosystems and habitats store carbon.
we need better information on the whole effects that climate change is having on europe’s biodiversity.
could i just ask the council to comment on the fact that the commission is now reviewing the targets for biofuels, because what we thought might be good for climate change is now having unintended consequences when it comes to global food security, and indeed biodiversity.
is this not one of the difficulties for us human beings in tackling climate change: that we may get it wrong?
i think it is timely to remind those, especially in my own country, who are rightly exercised about global warming, climate change and greenhouse gas emission increases and who have concerns, on the other hand, about ratifying the lisbon treaty – or the reform treaty, as we underline – that the environment and climate change are specifically included in the lisbon treaty as distinct from the past constitutional treaty: a most important point to underline.
following bali, it is clear that europe, as a union of 27 member states, has the capacity and the ability to lead the world on this most critical of issues – climate change – with this package at its centre.
bali produced a road map for global agreement by 2009, recognising the urgency for clear and transparent international agreements – i have borrowed president barroso’s words – to ensure at least a 50% decrease in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. and while remaining competitive is ever pressing, we cannot solve our numbers and targets by exporting jobs through relocation to regions which have no legislation to reduce greenhouse gases ... (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, tá páirt lárnach ag seirbhís poist na héireann i saol mhuintir na tuaithe, go háirithe iad siúd atá ina gcónaí leo féin agus daoine atá i réigiúin iargúlta nach bhfuil comharsana thart timpeall orthu.
madam president, having attended my fifth un climate change cop and mop, i returned from bali with a sense of achievement for the first time on this most important of global issues.
if we had an agreed system of credits to reward or compensate native communities, thereby mitigating the present rate of deforestation, particularly of our tropical forests – notwithstanding the immense difficulty in mapping a baseline figure for existing forestation – we could reduce global carbon emissions by another 20%, so that ‘20/20/20/20 by 2020’ must be our goal.
it is fashionable to talk about climate change and, while the public have bought into it at the moment, i think we are at risk of switching them off.
in relation to agriculture, raised by ms schierhuber in particular: in ireland, for example, 28% of our emissions come from agriculture.
i think we need to look at encouraging those continents with vast forests not to rip them out, just as we are trying to encourage our farmers not to plough permanent pasture because of such important carbon sinks.
mr president, i want to draw attention to a recent report by the environmental protection agency on water quality in ireland.
while we have invested significantly in upgrading waste water systems under the water framework directive, we still have to achieve certain objectives with regard to water quality.
there is far too great a tendency to blame septic tanks for the threat of pollution to irish drinking water.
– mr president, i agree with ms hall when she points out in her report that energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and immediately available tool in the battle to cap greenhouse gas emissions.
yes, the commission is right when it states in its action plan on energy efficiency that, more than anything, political will and engagement at national, regional and local level are necessary if the objectives here are to be achieved.
the whole report has been rightly critical of both the commission and member states for not doing more to implement existing energy-efficiency legislation.
this pressure has resulted in the commissioner augmenting his staff in the area of energy efficiency and, i understand, setting up a special unit to follow up on the energy efficiency plan, underscoring the priority the commission is finally giving to energy efficiency in order to contribute to a reduction of our co2 emissions and to help tackle the critical issue of climate change.
however, parliament’s report shows that progress on member states submitting their national energy efficiency plans is still lamentably slow and i would ask the commission to continue to put pressure on them.
even in bali, europe was criticised for not giving enough emphasis to the area of energy efficiency and our efforts to reduce our co2 emissions.
for instance, if all eu lighting switched to new technologies, there would be massive savings on energy.
fifty million barrels of oil would be saved and co2 emissions would be reduced by 28 million tonnes per annum.
we await the revision of the energy efficiency labelling directive from the commission this year, as the current a to g scheme for household appliances allows no further room for increased energy efficiency and, while very clear and consumer friendly, it is now creating marketing problems for genuinely more efficient products as it has reached its limit.
– this report on energy efficiency is timely - given our concerns about climate change and the need to face up to the finite energy resource of fossil fuels.
but eliminating waste of energy is positive in its own right and from a purely selfish point of view; improving energy efficiency should cut costs for households and businesses.
many individuals are aware of the need to be more conscious of energy use.
many already know that a tv on standby uses 45pc of the electricity used by a tv that is on, that electrical equipment on standby uses 10pc of household energy in the eu and that leaving phone re-chargers plugged in uses energy - 95pc of which is wasted.
and while we can all act to switch off power to electrical gadgets, would it not be more effective is the manufacturers designed the equipment with an eye to eliminating the energy waste.
a combination of new development in manufacturing and increase awareness among consumers will yield results, but industry needs incentives to develop new products with energy efficiency in mind and the public need positive messages to educate them about the extent of energy savings which can be made in the home and office.
for over 14 years the department of agriculture authorities in ireland – with the acquiescence of the commission – had a scheduled payment of the rural environment protection scheme payments to thousands of farmers and their families.
some member states are primarily concerned with building their economies, but for others the issue of responsible environmental stewardship ranks with trade.
those countries are seeking ways to square the circle of competitive trade and maintain a good, sustainable standard of life and product usage.
energy efficiency, use of recyclables and low-toxicity materials are all a step in the right direction, but an important addition is the elimination of planned obsolescence.
we have to be careful with our harmonisation that we leave responsible countries the option to ban products that have built-in planned obsolescence, and that we encourage countries only to allow in products that will last and are repairable, because it is those countries which are stuck with mountains of waste at the end of the cycle.
madam president, the recent financial turmoil which shook consumer and market confidence brought home to us how important it is to have in place sustainable strategies for growth.
many of the issues which are important to the lisbon strategy have been raised today, whether it is supporting innovation, fair competition, addressing energy issues, climate change, lifelong learning or investing in knowledge, to name but a few.
the euro has strengthened at a time of a weakening dollar, which is impacting further on global imbalances and european competitiveness, and all these factors are creating a very difficult monetary and fiscal policy environment.
it offers no advance on the environment, nothing new on the protection of workers’ rights and it gives powerful eu institutions a free hand to further militarise our union.
however, despite the naysayers, it responds to our citizens’ demands for more democracy and a greater capacity to do those things which nation states cannot do effectively on their own: peacekeeping, climate change, migration, financial and market regulation, and, indeed, labour regulation.
they refuse to countenance binding european laws to protect us and our neighbours from climate change, the abuse of workers’ rights and abuse of the market.
the reform treaty allows for greater continuity in eu decision-making, notably in the foreign policy domain, by creating the new post of president of the european council, who will be appointed for a two-and-a-half-year term, renewable on one occasion.
there would, however, be new legal bases for patents, tourism, sports, space and administrative cooperation, a reinforced legal basis on energy policy and, most importantly, an explicit new reference to fighting climate change with existing legal bases on environmental policy.
we must encourage an emotional environment that is conducive to having children.
mr president, science and technology have been identified by the african union as crucial contributors to sustainable development on the african continent.
however, it faces considerable challenges in areas such as global sustainability problems like poverty, climate change, biodiversity, hiv/aids, infectious diseases, energy, clean water – the list is seemingly endless.
coupled with africa’s rich natural resources and biodiversity, these could prove highly effective.
he had been to the european union and had trained there, but was proud to be back amongst his own people, showing them how to use the soil and water to produce food to give them a sustainable life.
but i remember his condition the summer he first came to stay with my sister, and it is this experience that allows me, personally, to understand the difficulties, especially of someone disabled, raised in an institution in such an unstable environment.
i do not blame europe for giving assistance to build roads, and water and energy plants, to build schools and health centres for palestinian people who were thrown to the four winds when they were displaced from their own lands.
the new vrt system will see the introduction of a seven-band system based on carbon dioxide emissions and not on engine size.
inadequate bus frequency, two light-rail lines that do not interconnect either with each other or with the main-line rail system, no link to the airport, no metro and still no integrated ticketing system – so much for efforts to reduce hydrocarbon use and greenhouse gas emissions!
is he really trying to say that these fpas are sustainable?
in particular, i am delighted that the president of the commission and the other commissioners did not throw everything into the annual policy strategy 2009. it would be so easy to say that we are going to do so many things, but instead it has focused on key essential areas such as climate change, as has already been mentioned, and the issue of europe as a world partner and as a world player – in particular when we look at the risks and dangers around the world that we face today, not just in the middle east, not just in the western balkans, not just in africa, but even in south america, where in the last week we have seen how tension can arise so quickly.
there is danger that sheep farming’s vital role in preserving sensitive environmental and ecological areas will be eroded through land abandonment and that husbandry skills would be lost, and this must be addressed and supported in the cap health check.
- the madam president, the commission's first priority is to conclude an ambitious international agreement on climate change covering the period after 2012. the bali conference was an important step in the effort to tackle climate change on a global basis.
all parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, including the united states, china and india, have agreed to begin formal negotiations.
the challenge now - and this is a key priority for the european union and the commission - is to reach agreement on a future international climate legal framework before the end of 2009. this framework must be universal, ensure the commitment of all and be effective.
the package of proposals on climate and renewable energy, which the commission presented on 23 january, is precisely to do this, namely to maintain the european union's leading role and to demonstrate clearly that the european union is determined to move forward.
the european union's emissions trading system is the main means by which we can direct investment towards cleaner technologies.
emission trading ensures that the union's greenhouse gas targets are met at the lowest possible cost.
the auction, on the one hand, provides incentives for investments in low-carbon technologies and, on the other hand, prevents undesirable situations from unjustified allocations and undue profits.
the commission therefore proposes that from the beginning of the third marketing year onwards no more free allocations should be made to electricity generating undertakings, and that in the industrial sector free allocation should be gradually reduced with the aim of being completely abolished by 2020. some energy-intensive sectors or industries operate in a highly competitive international market and therefore cannot pass on costs to consumers without risking losing a significant part of the market.
in the absence of an international agreement, there is a risk that they will be relocated outside europe, leading to an increase in global greenhouse gas emissions (carbon leakage).
the sectors concerned by this risk of carbon leakage must be objectively identified.
the commission therefore proposes to examine this matter carefully and to draw up a list of vulnerable sectors or sectors by the year 2010. by june 2011, the commission will assess the situation in these energy-intensive sectors on the basis of the outcome of the negotiations on the international agreement on climate change or on any sectoral agreements that may have been concluded.
these measures will include the free allocation of greenhouse gas emission allowances to energy-intensive sectors up to 100%.
the commission proposal also mentions the establishment of an effective carbon dioxide compensation mechanism as another measure.
the aim is to put industrial installations in the community which are at significant risk of carbon leakage on a comparable and equal footing with those in third countries.
such a system of equalisation could even provide for the imposition of conditions on importers similar to those applicable to installations within the european union, such as, for example, the obligation to surrender carbon dioxide emission allowances.
any agreed method and action should be fully consistent with the principles of the united nations framework convention on climate change, in particular the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, taking into account the special situation of least developed countries.
finally, the climate and energy proposal has been adopted collectively by the entire european commission, so it is supported by all its members.
thank you, commissioner, for a very substantial reply to my question, which, incidentally, i tabled long before i realised i would have responsibility as rapporteur for the review of the eu emissions trading scheme situation.
my question was quite specifically about where we stand, ‘we’ really being the college of commissioners at this stage, in relation to a possible introduction of carbon adjustment tariffs, or carbon allowances, in the event that we do not get international agreement.
i just want to tease out whether this option – and i am not being protectionist, and i really support the globalised world we live in today – of a potential carbon adjustment tariff is still out there on the table.
i feel it should be, so i am asking you whether that is the position of the college of commissioners on this issue, to mark the seriousness with which we treat the whole need to reduce co2 emissions and the whole climate change debate.
we discussed it in my services, with other services and with other commissioners, and what we concluded as being a wise, balanced position is to include in the proposal a provision which will take care of the problems that energy-intensive sectors could face in the event that we do not have an international agreement, or that an international agreement does not impose carbon constraints in other countries as ambitious as the european union’s.
accordingly, i hope, and i sincerely believe, that we will have an agreement by the end of 2009, one which will tackle climate change problems effectively.
however, if we do not have an agreement, or if it is not ambitious enough, then there are provisions in our proposal that permit us to assess the situation and, accordingly, either provide emissions allowances for up to 100% of the allocations of these energy-intensive industries or permit the inclusion of importers into our emissions trading system and, of course, the obligation to pay for similar amounts of allowances as local producers will do, so equalising the situation – or even a combination of these measures.
surely the issue of climate change must feature high on our list of priorities and carbon tariffs on imports into the eu is certainly important in this regard.
actually, our first concern will be that we shall not permit the relocation of sectors or industries outside the european union, not only because we are going to lose jobs and we are going to create employment problems but also because we do not want to carry on emitting and polluting in countries that do not have carbon restraints as we have.
of course, when we are preaching that the main way for developing countries to fight climate change is by improving energy efficiency, we have to be very careful what we are exporting to them.
regarding the world trade organisation position on carbon tariffs, we do not know their position, because the question has not arisen, but, after examination within the european union, we think that there is no problem, because what we have tried to do with the inclusion in the emissions trading system, which is a bit different from border tax, is to equalise the situation.
we do not favour our industries; we put them in the same position as similar industries and sectors which are producing in countries with no carbon constraints.
by the way, in the united states they are having the same discussion, because in the liebermann-warner bill for the introduction of an emissions trading system in the united states they have a similar provision.
i would like to say that the ambition of this year, the european year of intercultural dialogue, is to promote the dialogue of cultures as a process in which all those living in the european union can improve their own ability to deal more and more openly with the complex cultural environment in their daily lives.
it is perhaps the only mention of a most relevant fact in all of the deliberations about using waste and recycling.
in my country and in my experience every time there is a planning process for a green recycling facility or the use of meat and bone meal for energy production, there are objections, because people are suspicious of these developments and are fearful for their health.
therefore, we need to educate the public of the need to recycle waste from agriculture and from sludge, but also be aware that there are downsides to this technology and that producing energy leaves a residue that has to be handled and dealt with very carefully.
madam president, the generation of renewable energy from biogas is a positive development from an energy-supply perspective.
however, the contribution of biogas from manure to the abatement of greenhouse gases requires further research.
the draft report does not actually address the issue of unintended or fugitive emissions, i.e.
those emissions of gases which escape during the production process.
some research suggests that methane losses during production, and emissions of nitrous oxide when digestate is applied to the land, can negate any potential for greenhouse gas abatement.
any review of legislation to support biogas production should be based on a rigorous life-cycle analysis to definitively assess the process in the context of renewable energy production and as an abatement strategy for greenhouse gases.
madam president, climate change, security of supply, price increases, incidents such as blackouts in parts of europe, and the ukraine gazprom wake-up call have all increased the awareness of the european citizen and policymakers to the complexity of our energy situation, which urgently requires the availability of accurate, timely and complete statistical data.
energy use is responsible for 80% of the total eu emissions of greenhouse gases.
the availability of timely and reliable baseline data on the energy situation in the eu is imperative in order for us to meet our objectives not only under the kyoto protocol but also in a post-2012 scenario.
how can we reliably agree to transparent targets on fossil fuel energy reduction on the international stage and the increased use of renewables without such baseline data?
currently the compilation of energy statistics is slow, inefficient and often incomplete, and even inaccurate.
as the rapporteur rightly points out, there is a substantial delay in the publication of eurostat’s energy data.
can the commissioner confirm that this regulation will result in more timely availability of vital energy statistics and that the statistical model we use here in the eu is comparable to that used by, for example, the usa and other global players, so that we can compare like with like?
accurate, verifiable and unbiased eurostat statistics are crucial to the whole range of current and future climate and energy policies, such as the eu emissions trading scheme, effort-sharing and renewable energy proposals.
you cannot have protection of the environment without proper investment in new resources, information technology and research and development to create the innovative ways of dealing with the problems we are now facing.
what we have to ensure is that the foundation stones that we put down today will be as strong in 15 years’ time as they are today, that they will continue to deliver economic growth and that they will continue to deliver security of energy supply.
mr president, i believe the spring council must reassert the original lisbon strategy to address in an integrated way the interdependent policies on economic, social, employment and sustainable development.
and the only way in which two will grow together in a healthy and normal way is by keeping them together wherever possible and creating a supported and secure environment for them to live in.
in its green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, the commission states that: ‘alternative management mechanisms can play a significant complementary role in community fisheries management.’ however, i would venture to suggest that alternative management measures should and must play a compulsory role in the future, as we need to take on board a range of factors, including climate change and up-to-date marine and fisheries research based on sound science.
as i pointed out in my now redundant opinion of the committee on fisheries for the report by the temporary committee on climate change, i have no doubt that climate change will impact on eu fisheries regulations, as allocations of quotas based on historic catch patterns will need to be revised as a result of the shifting distribution of fish stocks.
as climate change and other factors increasingly impact on our fish stocks, our management will need the necessary flexibility, based on sound peer-reviewed science, to adapt to the new conditions and ensure sustainability of resources.
mr president, climate change is a challenge to us all.
however, if our policies are going to be effective, we must distinguish between man-made and natural climate change.
our landscapes, soils and river systems are all the result of natural and ongoing climate change.
man-made climate change is inexcusable.
making the distinction is not to say that natural climate change is not a worry, but the answer to it is adaptation.
having an ice age or an era of heat is just not on our agenda at the moment: ‘please come back in an eon or so.’ the response to natural climate change is long-sighted planning, intelligent preparation and common sense.
we must balance our approach to climate change between change and adaptation, between man-made and natural, and use our funds appropriately so that they will be effective.
mr president, could i suggest that we stop beating ourselves up over climate change and blaming each sector as if one is more guilty than the other?
europe is powerless on its own to do anything about climate change, but it can provide much-needed leadership.
it contributes to climate change but it is also affected by it: that has been stated already.
if you look at global demand for food it is set to increase by 50% in 20 years, but agriculture can, through carbon sequestration, anaerobic digestion, forestry planting – and i think that is the key – and wind energy, contribute to this debate.
in terms of the irish situation we have actually reduced our emissions from agriculture by 3% since 1990, but look at what has happened to transport, where emissions are up by 163%.
for industry the figure is 23%, and for energy 32%.
the danger of targeting agriculture is that we will reduce cattle numbers and reduce emissions in europe, but we will transfer production elsewhere and make absolutely no difference.
it has 17% of the world population but only contributes to 4% of global greenhouse emissions.
it will contribute to the debate on climate change but it can only do it in a way that recognises its real present situation.
finally, can i say that the lisbon treaty, for the first time, gives us some hope for a global action on climate change, with europe providing leadership.
mr president, firstly i would like to point out that some colleagues and i originally tabled a number of amendments to this dossier specifically addressing key issues such as the effect of climate change on biodiversity and the havoc it is already wreaking in the developing world, both of which are issues which must be dealt with without further hesitation.
the eu’s credibility on climate change policies and our claims of being at the heart of any international agreement on emissions trading post-2012 will depend on our political willingness to put our money where our collective mouth is when it comes to earmarking the revenues from the auctioning of emission allowances, and this could be up to eur 40 billion per annum.
generous funding for technology transfer, adaptation and mitigation measures and others will be a measure of our acceptance of our historic responsibility towards third countries, those most likely to bear the brunt of climate change, including adverse weather, desertification, coastal flooding and serious water shortages.
on this point, the legislation on the eu emissions trading scheme, for which i am rapporteur, must include some political direction on auction revenues, which will test the european council’s commitment, resolve and understanding on the 2°c target and, might i say, its understanding of the serious global impact of climate change, as we strive to create low-carbon economies throughout the eu, as our contribution to a global deal in copenhagen.
as parliamentarians, we have a responsibility to ensure not just sustainable quality and traceable food, but also food security.
it is an energy within each one of us, but it is only activated when we engage with others.
it is, in my opinion, a most valuable form of renewable energy.
member states can also support voluntary activity by establishing sustainable volunteering infrastructure to deal with issues such as core funding, insurance cover and vat exemptions where appropriate.
we have tackled other problems, and we have tried to tackle other problems like global warming at that level.
farmers use fuel and energy to grow food and their costs are going up.
climate change – we have actually pulled back on food production in europe because of it.
my supplementary concerns the fact that, at your hearing in parliament before the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, you made the point that food safety is one of our key concerns, but that we also have to be fair to our trading partners.
nonetheless, the eu should uphold its traditional policy of positive conditionality aimed at fostering sustainable development and should not be tempted to nuance its approach to africa simply because china is landing more contracts.
together as political democratic bodies we are working on a range of issues of mutual importance, including the following: addressing the increasing importance of energy and environmental issues, including climate change via the eu rio group, working together on many projects to promote conflict resolution, the rule of law, democracy, good governance and human rights, and putting in place a stronger level of third level education links between our two groupings.
not least the fact that the involvement of the eu and china should be in the interest of the african countries and people, and that external investors operating in africa should respect social and environmental rules.
in terms of any reform of the common agricultural policy, sinn féin stands for real reform which would allow for farming and rural life to become sustainable in ireland, europe and in the wider world.
mr president, in the light of this debate and of earth day yesterday, i would like to highlight the urgent need for greater understanding of the concept of biodiversity and its implications for our society.
the current rate of loss of biodiversity is now faster than ever before in human history and there is no sign of this process slowing down.
people need to be made aware of their growing ecological footprint, that it reaches far beyond the borders of the eu and that our lifestyles have direct consequences on indigenous people in the developing world.
whilst most of us now have at least some understanding of the extent of the problem of climate change, many have not made the connection between climate change and biodiversity loss.
indeed, in this area, i think we need to link up the work of the convention on biological diversity and the conference of the parties on climate change.
in fact, i would go so far as to ask whether we still need a stand-alone cop on biodiversity.
yes, i agree that climate change mitigation and adaptation measures, including deforestation, must support biodiversity.
i welcome commissioner wallström’s comments in relation to marine biodiversity issues.
there are huge gaps in our scientific knowledge on the impact of climate change in marine areas.
my question refers to the schengen rules and their contribution to climate change and increased carbon dioxide emissions.
as regards the second question, i have read carefully the dictionary contained in mrs goudin's question and i would like to point out that this provision concerns union aid, aid for the formulation of international measures to preserve and improve the quality of the environment, sustainable development and so on.
we must also recognise the enormous demographic, environmental and modernisation challenges facing china.
will environmental and climate change considerations be part of any new wto package?
an fta should also be a way to promote scientific cooperation with the gulf states and thereby support sustainable development in that region.
cooperation in science is particularly important when it comes to climate change and energy policy.
the european union currently imports about 50% of its energy needs, of which approximately 20% are sourced in the gulf.
an fta needs to be strengthened in the areas of combating climate change and i therefore welcome the commission’s planned feasibility study in this area.
mr president, with our clear focus on thriving but low-carbon economies to meet global targets for co2 emission reductions as we face our most serious environmental challenge of climate change, a wide range of market-based instruments – including taxation – have a vital role to play, being based on the widely accepted environmental principle of the polluter pays.
sustainable management of our global fish stocks therefore needs to be a priority and we must constantly review how we do that management.
i agree with the commission that there needs to be an ecosystem-based approach to the management of deep-sea fish stocks.
furthermore, effective research relating to the mapping of the seabed and the natural resources of the oceans, especially in the light of climate change impacts, must be a priority.
i really do think that the debate around the definition of what is ‘deep’ is futile and i agree fully with the fao dismissing it as a crude measure and a crude criterion which is very arbitrary in terms of the sustainability of the species and fish stocks.
special focus will be given to equip consumers with the skills and tools needed to increase their confidence in the digital environment.
let us seize the moment and let us not waste it today with just words and no action.
finally, these schemes aim to encourage and support the development of sustainable mechanisms and practices which will ensure that women researchers have an equal opportunity to compete on the basis of their scientific expertise, knowledge and potential.
it is no coincidence that 95% of european citizens believe in the importance of protecting our environment.
over two thirds believe that policies tackling climate change should be initiated at european level.
my country, which is a small island, cannot solve or undertake to tackle climate change alone, just like any other country.
in the reform treaty, which is a very prominent subject of debate in my country at the present time, the european union has outlined measures which will see the 27 member states combating climate change, united together.
climate change is a serious global threat.
are we seriously willing to sacrifice not only our climate and planet, but also our economies?
are we also willing to subject our climate to the point of no return?
we need to continue to deliver a road map of cohesive solutions to the threat of climate change, ensuring that member state flexibility is at its heart.
mr president, we are discussing here an excellent interim report on the scientific facts of climate change by the rapporteur of the temporary committee on climate change, karl-heinz florenz.
for legislators to ignore the peer-reviewed opinion of the overwhelming majority of scientists in the field of climate change throughout the world would be a combustible mixture of arrogance, irresponsibility and complete dereliction of duty.
i would urge our dear colleagues who could loosely be termed ‘climate sceptics’ to travel this road with us, if only on the basis of the much abused but very important concept of the precautionary principle.
as man-made greenhouse gas emissions rise, the scientific prediction is that dramatic changes such as warmer oceans, melting of the poles, rising sea levels and ocean acidification will pose severe threats to marine ecosystems and the fishing community.
two quick points: it was a serious omission not to have included members of the committee on fisheries on the temporary committee on climate change and, secondly, i regret that the temporary committee felt unable to accept the opinion of the fisheries committee.
in conclusion, there is a series of amendments emphasising the scientific impact of the consequences of climate change on the world’s oceans.
on the one side we are staring environmental catastrophe in the face, with europe and the world continuing as normal, while on the other side we move to engage with the problem of climate change and take the hard decisions that our future generations are dependent upon.
as the minister has said, in its spring conclusions the council did undertake to move towards tackling the serious problem of climate change and to take the serious decisions needed.
we do have the rapporteur on the climate here, mrs doyle, who will be listening to all of this.
if we are to weather the storm of climate change and increasing food prices, we must improve agricultural production by targeting agriculture-specific programmes as they can have a powerful impact on poverty reduction.
obviously my colleagues have mentioned many of the challenges that face us, whether it be climate change, the development goals or whatever else.
but most important of all is for us to come together to give leadership to the rest of the world, in particular in the area of climate change, energy and food.
moving now from unsustainable economic pressure to unsustainable environmental pressure, experts report that 75% of fisheries are significantly depleted and over-exploited.
iuu fishing undermines sustainable fisheries, harms and destroys marine habitats and threatens the livelihood of responsible fishermen and communities depending on fishing.
yes, we need a global agreement on this, but we need to start at home and whatever we do, rather than just layer on bureaucracy, which we are very often accused of in this place, we need to make sure that the regulations we put in place are effective and tackle the problem at source, so that we do not destroy both the economics and the environment.
scientists have speculated that as many as 10 million species may inhabit the deep sea, biodiversity comparable to the world’s richest tropical rain forests.
i agree with the rapporteur that the commission must use the powers it has beyond the fisheries sector to promote concerted action to protect vulnerable ecosystems and our approach must be guided by two key principles: the precautionary approach, which requires us to act when there is a lack of scientific information or uncertainty, and, above all else, ecosystem-based management.
as the eu is the main destination of these products, it is up to us to play a significant role in promoting their sustainable development.
− the objective of any waste policy is to minimise the negative effects of waste on human health and the environment.
decoupling waste from our growing economies is vital.
we produce 1.3 billion tonnes of waste annually, some 40 million tonnes of which is hazardous.
parliament has insisted on targets for re-use and recycling of waste.
by 2020 member states need to increase recycling and reuse of household waste by 50%.
we need to reduce amounts of waste in landfill and incineration.
the hierarchy system as a priority order forces legislators in waste prevention and management policy to apply prevention as key, followed by re-use, then recycling, with recovery and disposal at the lower end.
only incineration with high standards of energy efficiency will be defined as recovery.
we need to engage with citizens, producers and consumers regarding reduction, reuse and recycling of waste.
the global challenges we all face in this constantly changing and inter-connected world are clear: climate change, demographic change, migration and energy crisis, hunger and poverty killing millions, human insecurity, international crime, topped by an identity crisis in virtually every one of our member states.
according to some experts, such as thorvaldur gylfason, professor of economics at the university of iceland, a fee-based trading policy, determined by an independent authority, could make every kilo of sustainable fish valuable so that there would be no inducement to discard fish or land it illegally.
would the commission and the council not agree that a tradable quota system, informed by economic and environmental rationale with an ecosystem-based management, could, on the one hand, preserve valuable marine resources for present and future generations while, on the other hand, offering some solace to the productive and efficient fishermen who are crying out for reform?
yes, we need short-term emergency measures for the present marine fuel crisis, together with medium- and long-term restructuring, informed by environmental and economic rationale, instead of making criminals of our most productive and efficient fishermen who lie awake wondering, as one irish fishermen’s spokesman said: ‘will it be the boat or the house that will go first?’
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liomsa fáilte a chur roimh an bpacáiste atá molta ag an gcoimisiún.
firstly, the introduction of a new environmental sheep-maintenance scheme which would allow sheep farmers to be paid under on a per-ewe basis, in recognition of the positive environmental attributes associated with the maintenance of sheep production, to be co-financed by national and european union funding.
i support the idea of an environmental-linked payment but i am a little concerned.
first of all, there is a lack of scientific data on the environmental and health impact of using the substances that are proposed.
it is therefore of the utmost importance that europe continues to be seen to be engaged with the environmental impact of this proposal, and a heavy burden therefore falls on the shoulders of commissioner dimas.
we need to demonstrate that we are capable of safeguarding citizens’ health and the sustainability of our environment.
the absolute need to develop energy resources, and the buying-in of energy resources, has to be based on principles of sustainability.
however, given the problems we face in the light of global climate change and the 2°c target, it would seem irresponsible to exclude the aviation sector, and indeed the maritime sector, from contributing to the urgent solution of the fastest-growing global problem.
we need to move towards a thriving low-carbon economy and to drive innovation and new technologies, and emissions trading is the most cost-effective way of achieving these goals.
since the aviation sector is able to pass on costs to the consumer, it makes sense that allowances should be allocated via auctioning, even in the present fuel price climate, which makes any talk of passing on costs especially sensitive.
the management of airports, air traffic control and a single european sky all have a huge contribution to make in decreasing fuel consumption and thereby reducing costs of fuel and carbon credits for the airlines.
by not effectively addressing this problem at source and by not providing sustainable and alternatives to opium farmers, we are failing not only the citizens of afghanistan but also the citizens of europe.
the european union needs to have a progressive neighbourhood policy in place which will ensure that we can protect and secure our energy needs into the future.
what we should be looking at is the third generation – going beyond the whole issue of biofuels to biomass, bioenergy and by-products from the whole energy sector – which could help us to achieve the reduction in our dependence on fossil fuels as well as assisting the environment.
and for europe and the world, is not the key issue to develop a sustainable land use policy which will give us food, feed, energy and environmental goods?
however i will vote in favour of the report because its objective is to accelerate innovation in cutting edge european low carbon technologies.
it is crucial that europe has an energy research plan to support its ambitious energy policy and climate change goals.
i also welcome very much the partial decommissioning aid to allow fishermen to trade down to smaller, more climate-friendly and energy-efficient vessels.
i would also like to think that the reduced carbon dioxide emissions from such a new contribution to the fleet should be able to be banked by member states to contribute to their effort-sharing under the climate package, which is rapidly coming down the track towards us, and we should connect the climate package with member states’ efforts in relation to energy-efficient vessels, smaller vessels and trading down in this particular area.
article 12(3) states that ‘a fleet adaptation scheme shall concern only fleets where the energy costs represent on average at least 30% of the production costs, based on the turnover in 2007, of the fleet concerned by this scheme.’ could you guarantee to us here and put on the record that the first six months of 2008 will be able to be taken into account in the compilation of those figures too, because they have been a critically bad six months in terms of the actual percentage increase in energy costs for the fleet, particularly the more vulnerable aspects of our fleets?
mr president, i should like to take this time to point out the effect that the implementation of the energy-using products directive will have on a company in my constituency that has expertise in this heating field.
current proposals for boilers will require manufacturers to apply an energy-rating label to the boiler, as well as heating controls, pumps and some renewables.
nor indeed do i deny that commissioner špidla has struggled hard in a hostile environment to get this package approved.
− i abstained on this vote because i am in favour of sustainable fisheries everywhere and i support the coastal communities and fishermen of ireland.
the common fisheries policy, while focusing on both of these ends, has led to the opposite: destruction of the marine environment, decrease of fish and impoverishment of the marine environment.
i may have missed it, but i did not hear the minister’s response to the second part of mr evans’s question in relation to the post-irish referendum climate at council.
first of all, could he indicate exactly what the post-irish referendum climate at council is, and whether it is impacting on the processing of the applications from croatia, turkey and the other european states which are named?
- your very important question was discussed at the european council, particularly at its meeting last march, where it was stated that in a highly competitive global environment, the risk of carbon leakage exists in certain sectors, such as energy-intensive industries, which are particularly exposed to international competition.
the best way to deal with carbon leakage and thus preserve the efficiency of the community's emissions trading system is to have an international agreement, mrs doyle, but it is clear that we must also be prepared to act if we do not have an international agreement and we are currently discussing what measures might be most appropriate to ensure the competitiveness of our industry, while ensuring that the union is the most exemplary in the fight against greenhouse gases.
in the proposal for a directive, the commission undertakes, in the light of the results of the international negotiations, to present an analysis report accompanied by appropriate proposals to deal with possible problems related to the risks of carbon leakage.
there are two possible options: either to adjust the proportion of free allowances and/or to integrate into the community system importers of products manufactured by energy-intensive industries, while ensuring that the system is compatible with world trade organisation standards.
we, as the council presidency, hope that the council, of course, but also your assembly, will be able to clarify these elements so that europe has a clean and competitive industrial base and that we know, as soon as possible, what the applicable mechanisms will be, that is before 2011.
i accept that border adjustment measures must be part of our toolkit, but on the shelf, used as a carrot and not as a stick in facing any international negotiations where, in good faith, we tried to arrive at an international agreement to combat climate change.
will carbon dioxide reduction goals come within that definition as clean air has heretofore?
- madam president, mrs doyle, i think that on the one hand we must study the various possible measures, and you are right, in an incentive spirit, so as to ensure that we are not exempted from the obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and, on the other hand, that we must strike the right balance with industrialists' demands which are not always 'fair' in this respect.
but very objectively, in the context of balancing competitiveness and the fight against greenhouse gases, we must have a good balance with our major partners.
we must both lead by example in the fight against global warming.
their achievement in the context of sustainable development is a shared responsibility of all partners, both donor and recipient countries, who must respect the commitments made.
it contributed to the security of eastern chad and northeastern central african republic by deploying a significant and deterrent force in a few months, away from european bases and in a very hostile environment, by its presence alone, patrolling the entire area and helping to reduce insecurity, providing escorts to humanitarian organisations who requested them, facilitating the opening of routes, protecting desired sites or offering alternative solutions to enable them to carry out their missions, and finally, it also contributed to ensuring that the local police and gendarmerie could take further action and expand their usual range of action.
– madam president, chemicals are a natural and important part of our environment.
we also need to strike a balance between properly implementing the european union’s international obligations signed up to at the united nations economic and social council at the world summit on sustainable development which was held in johannesburg in september 2002, while at the same time avoiding unnecessary burdens on business through impractical and over-demanding labelling.
we must all be aware that chemicals, through the different steps from their production to their handling, transport and use can pose potential risks to human health and the environment.
in this context, the un-eu ghs agreement is expected to be an improvement in human health and environmental protection and will also offer greater clarity to enterprises, particularly those involved in international trade.
an integrated ports policy is necessary to boost trade and investment, while taking advantage of the environmental benefits of maritime transport.
road freight will be taken off already congested motorways and transported over a shorter route by sea, saving time, money and carbon emissions.
the priority concern in terms of new legislation in this house has to be the climate and energy package.
climate change will impact on health in many ways, including malnutrition resulting from food scarcity in parts of the world; deaths and injuries as a result of extreme weather events such as heat waves, floods, storms, and fires and the consequent social problems therefrom; the increased burden of a range of diarrhoeal diseases; increased frequency of cardio-respiratory diseases; serious problems with water scarcity – over 40% of the world will, in part, actually have water scarcity problems within 10 years – and drinking water.
it is very welcome that this resolution on the mid-term review recognises the health impacts of climate change, and i applaud it for that.
mr president, despite our wet irish climate, major flooding was a relatively uncommon occurrence in the past.
mr president, less than two weeks ago the european court of justice found that ireland was in contravention of the water framework directive in regard to some of its waste water treatment systems.
it can do this by granting an extension to the farm waste management scheme.
extending the scheme would be a win-win situation for water quality in ireland, for the environment, for farmers and for commission policy.
in such a tense financial climate, it can be tempting to make scapegoats of certain financial actors or bodies.
it is therefore difficult to assess the nature of hedge funds, and their capacity to contribute to sustainable social cohesion and economic stability cannot be ascertained by citizens.
no less than 65 petitions concerned ireland in the year 2007, and the country has been visited by a committee fact-finding mission due to the breach of eu directives concerning water and the environment.
– mr president, i welcome the fact that this debate is encompassing all energy prices, and not just that of oil – which of course is a major concern.
spikes in energy prices put huge pressure on the budget of the average consumer.
as representatives of the people at policy level, it is up to us to implement policies that will ensure a sustainable fuel supply at a reasonable price.
we should be concentrating to an even greater degree on renewable energy and resources.
we have a duty to the european people, and for the sake of our environment, to turn our words into actions.
environmental protection and consumer financial welfare are not mutually exclusive goals.
by spending more money, time and resources on the area of renewable energy, we can achieve them both and can ensure a sustainable supply of energy for the future.
i would like to ask this in relation to biodiesel, which has the potential to make a significant contribution to enhancing the european union’s security of energy supply.
biodiesel can be produced in accordance with sustainability principles without endangering food supply – which you have referred to – and biodiesel is the only renewable energy where europe holds a strong, wide leadership.
could you comment please and give your views on the whole issue of the life-cycle sustainability for biofuels, or transport fuels generally, in relation to the turmes report?
madam president, the recent publication of the first-ever eurobarometer survey of our citizens’ views on climate change marks the rise of climate change from being a niche environmental issue to being at the heart of european policy.
given the global economic and financial turmoil at the moment, i can fully understand the concerns of colleagues as we as politicians address what is unquestionably the single greatest moral, environmental, social and economic challenge facing the whole of mankind, namely global warming from our greenhouse gas emissions, or climate change.
as rapporteur for one of the four dossiers of the post-2012 climate change regime – namely the ets review – i have full confidence in our governments to resolve, in the shorter term, these major economic and financial issues with which we are presented today, and resolve them long before 2013. so while it is the nature of politics to focus on today’s problems today, we must not be distracted from legislating now for the longer term, for the post-2012 scenario, on this most important of issues, or history will not judge us kindly.
please do not ask me to justify the sustainability of this to you here and now, but please believe me that it is a matter of acute political sensitivity and one, if i may suggest, best handled by irish governments rather than under an eu directive.
we are a wet island off the west of europe but we too are facing shortage as we consider the impact of climate change on water.
mr president, the arctic plays an increasingly important geo-strategic role in the world, and we are now faced with the opening of hitherto closed seaways as a direct result of global climate change.
this highly fragile and vulnerable ecosystem is coming under increasing pressure from resource-hungry nations which wish to exploit its potential.
without any multilateral governance in place, we would have no guarantee that they would have due regard for the sustainable lifestyle of the indigenous peoples or for the arctic’s fundamental importance as a stabilising force for the world’s climate.
the arctic is critical for global climate stability, and i would urge the commission to ensure that this is fully reflected in the forthcoming commission communication on arctic policy, together of course with energy and security policy matters.
and, as paragraph 9 of our resolution says, ‘by virtue of its impact on the world’s climate and its singular natural environment, [the arctic] merits special consideration as the eu develops its position for the 2009 cop 15 framework convention on climate change in ... copenhagen’, and as we discuss a framework for multilateral governance for this unique area.
this should be done in the same way that environmental impact assessments are now taken for granted as a way of informing legislators, and are a prerequisite for the formulation of most eu policies.
in the current climate where the consequences of the lack of regulation of international finance are ever more apparent, food security needs to become a priority in a way which is beneficial to developing and developed countries.
in the current climate where the consequences of the lack of control of international finance are all too apparent this is particularly urgent.
currently, agriculture consumes 64% of water while 20% is used by energy, 12% by the public and 4% by industry.
furthermore, droughts are increasingly affected by climate change causing forest fires which are environmentally destructive.
the eu aims to enhance recycling of waste water and develop desalination, improve water management policies based on the ‘polluter pays’ principle, establish labelling schemes, research and monitor activities to halt desertification, improve crop rotation systems and promote more efficient water usage among the public.
mr president, while any cod recovery plan would need first of all to incentivise those member states and fishermen who contribute to a reduction in cod mortality, and also secondly to reduce by-catch and eliminate discards – eliminate, not reduce, discards – no cod recovery plan has any credibility unless it factors in the whole climate change point in relation to the cod feeding and breeding grounds, as so eloquently put on the record a few moments ago by my colleague, mr stevenson, and that must play a large part in any cod recovery plan if it is to have credibility in this day and age.
without it, fishing is not sustainable ecologically or economically.
many of my fishermen are doing mixed fishing, and for them, discards are more than a waste and a contradiction: they are an abomination.
i would like to invite all actors concerned in the outermost regions to make best use of this package in order to improve the energy efficiency of their fleets and to make the fleets more economically viable through schemes offered in the package, such as restructuring and partial decommissioning.
madam president, in march 2007 under the german presidency, and again in march 2008 under the slovenian, europe’s leaders committed themselves to achieving a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020, an already limited ambition.
let us be under no illusion: in order to secure a post-2012 international agreement on climate change at copenhagen, we will have to make a clear and unambiguous statement through our legislation.
the current international financial liquidity crisis and the economic backdrop has allowed many to grow cautious of setting long-term co2 targets or of committing industry to achieving the necessary greenhouse gas reductions and thus driving europe’s economy forward towards the low-carbon, sustainable economy which we so desperately need and which, i agree, will spark a third industrial revolution with exciting first-mover advantage for europe in the whole area of new technologies.
i believe our governments will be able to resolve that in the shorter term and we must deliver now so that future generations will not bear the brunt – including the economic brunt – of any delay in terms of the climate and energy package.
the european parliament has given me, as one of the rapporteurs on the climate package, a strong mandate to lead negotiations with council in the trialogue, and i take this responsibility seriously.
i believe that together we can and will find an effective and workable agreement on the climate and energy package by this december... (the president cut off the speaker.)
– europe, including ireland, needs the lisbon treaty if we are to develop coherent and effective policies to tackle the global crises of financial system meltdown, climate change, and, under-development of much of the world.
can i assure the minister that we all want to look after the citizens’ health and the environment, but does the council agree with the call for a european commission impact assessment on the effects of food production and food supply because of this legislation in each member state?
after much debate over its first report, the commission submitted a revised proposal last january, the aim of which is to contribute to making the eu a highly energy-efficient and low-greenhouse-gas-emitting economy through the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles.
this policy is in line with several other proposals, including those under the climate and energy package.
it requires the authorities concerned either to include requirements relating to energy consumption, co2 emissions and emissions of other pollutants in the tender specification, or include such impact in the criteria for award of the contract.
furthermore, the directive will sit well with the sustainability agenda, which would demand that the cleanest of vehicles possible always be required.
might i suggest that this directive might be an important addition to the non-trading agenda of member states to reduce co2 emissions in our general thrust in the climate and energy package?
it is estimated that the effective cost, including emissions, would be small in overall cost terms.
but action is needed at every level if we are to transform our economies into the low-carbon economies we so desperately need.
it is right to challenge local authorities and public bodies to lead in sustainable, clean transport.
public procurement should be based on sustainability.
in our cities in particular, choosing efficient, green transport options will benefit citizens’ health, our environment and our climate commitments and can act as a market catalyst for clean transport options.
we know transport is one of the areas where co2 emissions must be reduced, and it is my hope that the revision of this directive can be signed off as soon as possible so that it can be implemented by 2010 as a support for environmentally conscious local authorities and public bodies.
− this directive proposes new measures to promote carbon conscious driving.
with a commitment to reducing18%of emissions in greenhouse gases, ireland faces an enormous challenge.
this eu proposal sets out to develop a new methodology aimed at calculating costs of energy consumption and emissions of vehicles which will encourage people to purchase energy-efficient cars.
the initiative to stimulate the market for more energy-efficient cars at competitive prices will provide irish citizens with a means of cutting down on emissions as well as economic benefits.
it will encourage the development of energy-efficient vehicle technology globally, and this is an extremely positive step.
in that regard, he might have discussions with the oecd, which has carried out a study of the effectiveness of local development in promoting training, education, micro-job creation and an improved environment for people who find themselves unemployed.
a number of alternative policy options, including the ccctb, that could address the obstacles will be analysed and their respective economic, environmental and social impacts assessed.
my final point: does this joint committee have terms of reference to handle trade of various waste products from europe to china for dumping?
could you elaborate further on the content of the appropriate regulatory framework which you indicated was in the pipeline, particularly in relation to economic sustainability of access transport to small island regions?
that is essential for the economic sustainability of these peripheral regions.
when this topic was first reported at committee level, we were experiencing a very different economic climate.
the only thing ‘simple’ about the common agricultural policy, which has been ignored in this debate, is that the budget is fixed and declining, and yet the demands we are making on this policy are expanding, including climate change, biodiversity and water management.
mr president, i strongly agree with minister barnier when he talks about food sovereignty and its importance, and with commissioner fischer boel when she talks about the importance of climate change on the agriculture agenda today.
it is expected that the growing worldwide demand for dairy products – which will be up to a 35% increase by 2020 – will lead to some intensification of irish dairy production, making it most likely that our suckler herd will be affected if a reduction in our cattle numbers has to be considered to meet eu climate change targets under the effort-sharing proposal.
ireland’s food production system is accepted as one of the most efficient in the world in terms of emissions per unit of food produced.
any shortfall of world food markets – if ireland cut its livestock numbers – would be most likely to be filled by countries with less sustainable farming systems and systems that generate far higher levels of emission, due to the less efficient nature of their herd management or the age profile of their herds and deforestation.
new challenges arise, particularly in this economic climate, which need to be identified and solved.
− i supported this report, as it is in line with the amendment i tabled on the financing of large scale ccs (carbon capture and storage) demonstration plants, in my report on the review of the eu’s emissions trading system.
ccs extracts and buries the carbon from any hydrocarbon source rather than allowing emissions to enter the atmosphere.
if implemented without delay and given proper financing ccs could reduce co2 emissions in the eu significantly.
this means that we must pay extremely close attention to the sustainability of pension schemes and continue the reforms undertaken to ensure their sustainability and modernisation, in line with the strategy currently in force in the union.
but it also stressed the need to act in five key areas: promoting demographic renewal in europe, by creating the conditions for our fellow citizens to fulfil their desire to have children, in particular by helping to reconcile work and family and private life; promoting employment in europe, by ensuring that more and better jobs are created and people can work longer, in order to improve the balance between active and inactive people; promoting a more productive and more dynamic europe, by optimising skills at all ages; taking in and integrating migrants into europe, by attracting skilled and unskilled workers from abroad and facilitating their integration in order to alleviate labour shortages; ensuring the sustainability of public finances, by consolidating budgets and reforming social protection systems in order to guarantee adequate social protection and public services in the future.
the solutions are that we must respect life and support the family, in order for that life to find a nurturing environment.
the decline in bee populations and the frightening implications for plant pollination and biodiversity generally deserve our full attention and we must support research and join with scientists worldwide to try and find the causes.
parasitic infections, climate change, pesticides: we can only speculate at this stage.
at the end of the day, putting money into rural development programmes to address climate change, biodiversity and water management is, in theory, a very good idea, but how does one measure these things and assess value for money?
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the review of recommendation 2001/331/ec providing for minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states (b6-0580/2008).
good and even enforcement of community environmental law is essential and anything less falls short of public expectations and undermines the reputation of the community as an effective guardian of the environment.
it is difficult to maintain any shred of hope that a sustainable two-state solution is still possible, given the war of attrition against the palestinian people, which we witnessed on our recent visit and which this eviction is a reflection of.
what this issue brings about more than anything else is a recognition that, yes, we have independence, yes, we can do things individually but, when we act collectively, when we come together and bring the great brains, innovation, talent and energy of the 27 member states together, then you can truly change the world with that individual collective effort.
yes, we must mobilise all european institutions to respond to the crisis and – as the commission’s recovery plan says – this crisis occurs on the eve of a major structural shift towards the low-carbon economy, with major new economic opportunities and, indeed, serious first-mover advantages.
this brings me to the summit discussion on the climate and energy package, on which we will have a long discussion tomorrow, so i will limit myself to just one point.
it must end the collective punishment of the palestinian population by lifting the siege of gaza and demonstrate its commitment to engage seriously with the palestinian leadership to find a workable and sustainable two-state solution.
it is made up of 60 000 companies and the eu has around 50% of the world’s share of the waste and recycling industries.
however, this sector is now in crisis as a result of the collapse in the price of recycled materials on world markets, and it is becoming economically unviable for waste businesses to continue to operate.
given the importance of this sector for sustainable consumption and production in the eu, i would like to urge the commission to implement without delay the recommendations set out in the report by its own taskforce on recycling, which was compiled during the preparation of the communication entitled ‘a lead market initiative for europe’.
on climate legislation we have no choice.
we know what we have to do: it is a year since the commission adopted the climate and energy package, and much work has been done.
investment, jobs, salaries, consumption and saving our planet are all synonymous, and we will depend on our ability to switch from carbon-spewing fossil fuels to more sustainable energy sources, and to bring all our colleagues around the world to the un table with us.
madam president, climate change can no longer be viewed rigidly in environmental terms, but must instead be mainstreamed as a cross-cutting concept through varying policy areas, including development and human rights.
climate change is attacking the natural resource base of poor communities, including their land and water reserves, and people are subsequently being forced to migrate for survival.
climate change will make situations like this worse.
this is based on existing north sea herring agreements currently agreed with norway, to preserve a sustainable fisheries industry by placing upper and lower limits depending on the total stock size.
stecf and ices have advised that a sustainable fishery can be maintained by managing annual mortality (measure of catches) at 0.25 when the stock size is above 75,000 tonnes and at 0.20 when the stock size falls below 75,000 tonnes, but remains above 50,000 tonnes.
mr president, an italian colleague mentioned the extent of food waste in italy as being a big problem, and certainly the issue of food waste and surplus food going back into the food chain is a problem which hit ireland in the last seven days.
if we cannot control what is going into the animal feed chain in terms of food or surplus waste, then we will have to stop it.
− i welcome mep groote's report on the regulation of motor vehicles and engines with respect to curbing emissions as a step forward in ameliorating air quality across europe and combating climate change.
the introduction of community wide technical rules for trucks, lorries and buses will provide an effective means of tackling pollution.
as rapporteur on eu - ets, i am only too aware of the steps we need to take to combat climate change; the combined harmonization and reduction of emissions proposed in the report are issues i fully support.
finally, even though mr sarkozy has left, i want to thank him for his energy, his commitment to the eu and his efforts to find solutions to difficult problems.
i would like to acknowledge and thank the french presidency for its untiring work on the recovery package and the climate and energy package.
− mr president, the cost of reducing carbon emissions and decoupling our economies from our fossil fuel dependency will be about 1% of gdp if we act and act decisively over the next 10 years.
if we postpone the decisions that we as politicians have been told by peer review scientists are essential to reach the 2°c maximum increase in global temperature, the cost will be at least 10% of gdp by 2020 and increase steeply as environmental tipping points will be tracked by financial ones.
yes, energy-efficient and resource-efficient industries are also economically efficient and, yes, revolutionary change in the energy sector is what we need.
the eu is the only region in the world that currently has a functioning emissions trading system and which has put a price on carbon and which is committed to a 20% unilateral reduction in our co2 emissions.
i welcome the resolve and intent of the chinese, the indians and so many other countries in the industrialised and less-developed parts of the world to achieve the target of a serious reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, as opposed to business as usual.
it has been almost a year since the commission adopted the climate and energy package and we have come a long way in those 11 months.
all those involved in the eu institutions have clearly understood the need for europe to drive this process forward and deliver it in time for the 15th meeting of the united nations convention on climate change next year in copenhagen.
the preparations for reaching the all-important international deal have already begun and the signing off of this climate package would restate the eu’s strong commitments to its targets and to living up to its responsibility to the developing world.
as rapporteur of the review of the european union’s emissions trading system i would like to acknowledge the fact that the french presidency and the excellent team led by ambassador léglise-costa understood that from day one.
the issues that went in square brackets to the summit were within the parameters of what would have been acceptable to the european parliament and to myself as rapporteur for the lead committee, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the environmental integrity of the excellent original proposal stands up, especially in a minus 30% scenario.
the ccs agreement on 300 million allowances is possibly transformational in this whole debate on carbon dioxide reductions if the technology is proven through the 12 plants in question.
mr president, the climate and energy package, especially in the reduction of greenhouse gases, is hailed as a triumphant step and i agree that this effort reflects a strong will to tackle the issue of climate change.
however, there is a move to criticise my country and new zealand for the high level of emissions from agriculture.
both have a small human population and a large number of livestock which skew the emissions figures.
talk of forcing these countries to reduce their herds is crazy in terms of food security and climate change.
instead we need to foster r&d to find ways – different feeding, different growth schedules – to reduce animal emissions where we can, not destroy the animals.
as we drive renewable technologies, carbon sequestration technologies must go hand-in-hand.
as we rapidly exhaust our planet’s capacity to absorb co2 through biological sequestration, we look to our own ingenuity with new sequestration technologies, particularly the potentially transforming technology of ccs, if through these 12 projects the environmental integrity and commercial viability of these processes is proven.
mr president, much attention is currently being focused on the technology side of mitigating the effects of climate change through the development of alternative fuels.
it can be considered a win-win type of fuel because it absorbs co2 throughout its production therefore making it a carbon positive source of energy.
it also has the advantage of being a high-energy, low-weight fuel and one of the few that promises to be able to replace rocket fuel and air fuels.
but it is worth remembering that commodity prices have actually plummeted, as have energy prices, so this eur 1 billion should do a great deal more than we had hoped for if it is properly spent.
(applause) while aspects of the climate package were on the agenda at last week’s summit meeting, and a requirement from that summit that any future revisions on amendments to aspects of eu ets be available to be considered by future summits, at the subsequent trialogue on saturday morning in brussels i added, with the full support of all the shadow rapporteurs, a new recital to my report – subsequent to the summit – which was then accepted by coreper on saturday afternoon.
i should like to thank the staff of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety – and allow me to single out virpi köykkä for her trojan work – all our group staff, my personal assistant kavi for her untiring work, but, above all, my fellow shadow rapporteurs and their staff for a very good cooperative body of work.
renewable energy is, of course, central to efforts to reduce our dependency on fossil fuels, but sometimes, as we have discovered, solutions can lead to other problems, and that has certainly been the case in relation to the debate about food versus fuel production.
we need to look for strict sustainability criteria, and in this context we need to look in particular at the production of wood and timber, which is a very much renewable source.
it is very important, here in the european union, that we marry agriculture and energy with concerns about climate change, but also we need to do this, equally, at global level.
mr president, i also support and welcome very much this report, which refines the ets system – and, yes, it does address the concerns about carbon leakage, particularly if there is no agreement in 2009 at a global level.
again, i want to mention the issue of forestry in this whole climate change era.
mr president, as we know, only half of the co2 emissions are covered by the ets.
we need greater research – and it is going on in member states – into how to reduce emissions from agriculture with the cooperation of farmers.
i would, however, just give a warning that whatever we do in the european union it should not lead to a reduction in our food production, because that space will be filled by imports, over whose emissions we have little control.
i know there is a view that, with the economic downturn, investments in the whole energy issue and climate change will actually yield dividends, results and jobs.
mr president, i shall be brief and i shall take this opportunity to say that the reason i am making an explanation of vote on these reports is that there were many of us in the chamber who were denied the opportunity of speaking on the climate change/energy package.
to stick within my time on this particular issue: we know that we have to reduce the emissions from the road transport sector.
incentives to encourage more efficient use of fuel and less emissions from road transport include the ‘disincentive’ of higher taxation on cars with higher emissions and less efficiency.
mr president, we know that road transport accounts for 12% of co2 emissions, so obviously i support this particular report, which deals very clearly with the issue.
i want to repeat my point and stress that, while overall we have supported this energy and climate change package, i think its adoption in a single reading should be regarded as a one-off.
− mep turmes proposes an important piece of legislation covering the essential promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources.
as part of the wide ranging climate and energy package, renewable energy will provide the source of 20% of energy (including electricity, heat and transport) by 2020. this combined with the other measures included in the climate and energy package provide a good basis for combating climate change, providing impetus for investment in renewable energy sources and sourcing, a reemphasised direction for research and development and a means towards achieving energy security and independence.
− this report is concerned with the introduction of differentiated targets across the eu27 for the period 2013-2020 for greenhouse gas reductions in economic sectors outside the eu emissions trading scheme.
these ms targets are in the range +20% to -20% relative to 2005 emissions for these sectors with the irish target -20%.
taken together, ets and effort sharing represent the 100% of the reduction each country has to make in co2 emissions by 2020. ireland welcomes the inclusion of increased carbon capture and storage measures specifically carbon sinks in the - 20% scenario as we are the only country in the eu that has more cattle than people and together with generous cost effective off setting to trading emissions between member states while it will be difficult, we can reach our target of 20% less without reducing our herds.
− sinn féin attaches the highest priority to the fight against climate change.
we fully recognise the profound changes needed to bring about the type of society and economy which will prove to be environmentally sustainable.
therefore, we support measures at local, national, eu and at global level through the un climate talks to set the necessary binding targets for co2 reductions.
specifically on the doyle report on the emissions trading scheme (ets), we voted in favour of this report, as the outcome ensures an improvement of the current eu ets, notwithstanding some serious difficulties with the scheme itself.
on the davies report on ccs and without prejudice to our clear preference for renewable energy, we voted in favour of this report, as it provides important measures on safety, financial security, and liability.
we would also have liked an emissions performance standard; however, this report provides for a review into the possibility.
today's vote clearly demonstrates that all citizens desire a better, safer and more secure working environment.
we must put aside considerations of our fear about energy security that soften our approach to russia and make us tiptoe in their presence, and speak to russia strongly and clearly, reminding them that they are members of the council of europe and signatories to the european convention on human rights and the strasbourg accord, and we must insist that they respect democracy and human rights in russia and beyond.