the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i believe that all this can be achieved through reducing emissions, but i believe that for this real reduction of emissions more attention should have been paid to an integrated approach, such as that proposed by the cars 21 group, which i have the impression, on the contrary, that the commission has slightly missed.
the remarks i quoted were not about the automobile industry at all, but were a very general remark on the link between industrial policy and environmental policy, between economics and ecology.
but it is not worth going so far that industries are leaving and we are exporting pollution and, as a result, importing unemployment.
the few hundred chinese cars currently on the market in europe are extremely dangerous not only from an environmental point of view but also from an environmental point of view.
reducing the administrative burden of eu regulation is one of the most effective measures to improve the regulatory environment for our 24 million businesses in europe.
the agenda includes the report by mr johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals (com (2006) 0745 - c6-0439/2006 - 2006/0246 (cod)) (a6-0406/2007).
i do not support the uen group in saying whether it is important to talk about waste in italy at 9 p.m. tonight or at 5 p.m. this afternoon.
the strategy aims first and foremost at affirming the positive rights of children, including the right to a family, the right to health, education, social inclusion, but also the right to entertainment, play, sport, as well as the right to a clean and protected environment.
the right to a healthy and clean environment must be one of the main rights to be guaranteed to children.
the next item is the commission statement on the alarming waste situation in campania.
- the mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the amount of waste accumulated in the streets of naples and other neighbouring cities since 21 december, as we have been informed by the media, is estimated to have exceeded the enormous amount of 100 000 tonnes.
this, together with the negative - i would say catastrophic - consequences for the health of the inhabitants and the environment, is a matter of grave concern.
it is the culmination of the faulty application of european waste legislation, for which italy has been repeatedly condemned by the court of justice of the european communities over the last 14 years.
apart from the role of organised crime highlighted by the press, a direct cause of the present crisis seems to be the inaction and lack of will to adopt the measures required to solve the chronic problem of waste management.
when the commission was first informed of the critical situation of the waste collection and disposal system in campania in spring 2007, it initiated infringement proceedings against italy for breach of community waste legislation.
for example, an adequate network of waste treatment plants in full compliance with the standards laid down in community legislation.
this should be combined with an integrated long-term waste management strategy aimed at promoting recycling and sorting of waste at collection.
legislative decree no 61, adopted in may 2007 to resolve the waste crisis, has not achieved its objective.
the continuing violations of community environmental legislation in campania must be brought to an end, as community law requires.
although the situation appears to be difficult, it is not impossible for the italian authorities to comply with community waste legislation.
i am sure that useful examples can be drawn not only from other member states but also from other regions of italy where solutions have been found for the controlled disposal of waste by combining various forms of reduction, collection and disposal.
i could end my speech by quoting a judgment from the economist a few days ago: the waste piled up on city streets is not only harmful, but it is a political gamble and a reminder to citizens of the fragility of their civilization, which can lead them to rebel against their political representatives.
the tragedy of the waste in naples and campania did not start overnight, but has been going on for 14 years; the commissioner has reminded us that the real tragedy began on 21 december when the urban cleaning trucks stopped because the landfills were full, there were no incinerators, the health hazard was imminent and the waste was being collected in separate stages.
the campania region is in fact devoid of waste-to-energy plants, and the landfills are in the hands of organized crime, the camorra.
some political forces in the prodi government and all the opposition parties have called for the regional council to be dissolved and for a commissioner with full powers to be appointed to react against the irresponsible presence of the minister for the environment, mr pecoraro scanio.
we are asking for a commission inspection at the end of the month and for a strong position to be taken to enforce the introduction of the waste heaters, and europe can do this and we are asking for an inspection by parliament too, a qualitative leap forward on its part.
we believe that this is precisely the tragedy which calls for serious analysis, both in the specific case and in the wider issue of waste, which is not just a problem in naples and campania, but one which all communities have to face.
italy, we must not forget, was one of the first countries to adopt a modern law in 1997, under the prodi government and minister ronchi, in line with what the european union has been saying for some time: environmental education, separate collection, safe storage, use of advanced recycling and reuse methods which are safe for citizens and the environment.
the italian government is responding immediately, taking important decisions with the intention of giving responsibility back to local authorities, moving away from the logic of commissioning and ensuring self-sufficiency in waste disposal.
it is now time to support these choices, it is now time to restore dignity to a city, a region and a country, italy, in which, to use the words of president napolitano, there is no lack of positive energy, of new realities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must resist the temptation to be instrumental in this matter, allowing objectivity and intellectual honesty to prevail, without ignoring the contextual scenarios in which the problem is framed, namely: the interest of organized crime and its infiltration into waste management and therefore the countless illegal landfills scattered throughout campania; the unfailing acceptance of hazardous and toxic waste from other regions, in particular from northern italy; weaknesses of local ruling classes; the cultural backwardness of populations in the approach to waste as a resource; the cross-border location of the various cycle plants, even by representatives of the local catholic church; the divisions in the political world as well as in the scientific world, for example on disposal techniques; the inadequacy of the technologies chosen for the planned final disposal plants following a european tender held in campania in 1998. but today there is massive state intervention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the waste problem in campania is no longer just a health and environmental disaster, but has become an economic and institutional thriller.
another thriller is that some european political groups close to the prodi government have spoken out against a joint resolution on the environmental and health disaster in campania which should have brought this debate to a close.
i would like to mention the infringements of the landfill directive - there are over 4000 - and a whole series of other issues concerning the definition of waste, etc.
because it is clear that when a member state and a government, which at one time had a majority of 100 members, cannot do anything else with regard to waste legislation than simply violate community directives by trying to make loopholes, it is clear and obvious that situations of bad administration, bad management, crime and outright failure to comply are made even easier.
that is why this debate is important, because it can and must help us to solve the dramatic problems of waste in naples and campania.
the immediate issue is not the controversy, of course, but the removal of the waste that creates a dangerous situation for the citizens.
there's a hierarchy to deal with waste, and the hierarchy says, first reduction, then separate collection, then reuse and recycling and only lastly, if necessary, disposal.
but we have problems elsewhere, as you can see from the infractions: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
too many exceptions to european environmental laws.
we now have to, and i am sure the government wants to, regulate ourselves and the rules are european, from environmental impact assessment to the waste hierarchy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what capacity does the italian left have, and what complicity does it find in the european left, to insist that we talk about the shameful waste emergency in campania, which the centre-left has been governing for decades without voting.
it is the same left that is plaguing us with global warming and is not concerned with ensuring a decent quality of life for millions of citizens of campania; and the good news is that i heard about the national interest to defend!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation in naples is particularly tragic because, instead of remedying the judgment of the court of justice condemning the waste and thus ensuring that waste management is in line with european legislation, time has been lost and we deeply regret this.
if we do not want to risk the emergency situation in campania spreading to other regions, we must intervene by applying european standards, by producing waste heaters - despite the incredible resistance of certain pseudo-environmentalists such as minister pecoraro scanio - and by encouraging separate collection.
but not all of italy is like campania, and fortunately in many regions such as lombardy, decisive steps have been taken which have produced an efficient system of waste collection and disposal.
some facts: the amount of waste is higher than that of naples and campania, 4,500 tonnes of garbage collected every day in rome against 1,000 in naples and 450 kilograms per capita in campania against 617 in lazio, even higher than the national average of 539 kilograms produced by an italian.
but the regional waste plan never got off the ground and there are already two infringement proceedings underway.
(the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the waste emergency in campania today is a tragedy that has been repeatedly announced, and those piles of garbage that you see on the streets are just the tip of an iceberg of inefficiencies, waste and bad business.
to whom should citizens turn for compensation for this environmental disaster, for the damage to their image and for the waste of public resources, and above all what measures does the commission intend to take to actually oblige the italian state to take appropriate measures, since even today children in naples and campania have not gone to school?
in naples and in much of campania the waste situation has deteriorated and the consequences are obvious to everyone, but we also have problems in other areas, as can be seen from the number of environmental infringements that italy has collected in recent years.
i would like to mention the infamous cip6, which for years has equated waste-to-energy with renewable energy, with huge incentives that have been taken away from renewable energy development policies and given to powerful industrial lobbies that have caused serious distortions in waste management.
what makes things even more dramatic in campania is the 14 years of entanglement and irresponsibility that led to the first waste lawsuit against companies and representatives of public institutions, and eventually to the appeal against impregilo to the european court for environmental disaster.
the hierarchy established by europe in the new framework directive on waste is clear.
the left in government in our country, think of a green environment minister, has to appoint the former chief of police as waste manager, it seems like something out of this world.
we are aware of this by the fact that it was the only country to abstain as a government, with a green minister for the environment, on the adoption in the council of the common position on the recent waste directive.
first of all, we congratulate the commissioner on his lucid analysis and hope that it will be followed up by concrete action, action which also involves - and we also ask the president of parliament - parliament, because the problem of waste in naples goes beyond the very essence of disposal, the environment and so on to become a national and european phenomenon as far as we are concerned.
brief notes: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in the same way as the waste that is dumped on the roads.
the mass of waste, the total amount of waste, is increasing by the hour, and the situation is becoming more and more dramatic.
so the citizens think that maybe someone from outside will come and solve this problem and the information does not dwell on the fact that if there is no reduction and differentiation of waste and different civic behavior, there will be no solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the waste heaters are working in italy and in the rest of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i was elected to a political group which, when it was in government in italy, before the present government, had to deploy police forces in order to start the construction of regular waste disposal plants in campania, urgent works then obstructed by opponents, mr frassoni, who are now ministers in the government of romano prodi.
in fact, prodi's recent statements, particularly on the subject of waste in campania, are proof of the total failure of the government he presides over.
- i welcome the implementation of the rotterdam convention as an important step towards europe's awareness of its commitments to third countries, and especially developing countries, in the field of environmental protection and health.
we had to put an end to the discracy that had been created whereby a substance was strictly regulated in the european market to protect the environment and the health of european citizens and, on the other hand, could be freely marketed in third countries without any precautions or any obligation to inform on the risks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, we are quite sentimental about europe and the value it has had as an element of peace and democracy and what it could have in strengthening the freedom and well-being of people and in representing a pole of innovation and coherence in the governance of global environmental challenges.
during his presidency, and this fact has also been mentioned by the president of the commission, the so-called energy package will be presented: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
we believe that a low-carbon economy - and i am also addressing the president of the commission - is not a nuclear economy; the fact that the european union is not yet able to finance and spend time on a new nuclear power plant that does not yet exist, or on expensive and uncertainly applicable techniques such as carbon sequestration and storage, is in direct competition with the real renewable energies that must be promoted and financed: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings.
another important issue during your presidency will be the coordination of territorial and urban development, which will be of great value in the run-up to the spring summit and which refers to the follow-up to the leipzig charter: the protection of the quality of our cities and the strengthening of territorial cohesion are perhaps less fashionable elements than others, but we consider them absolutely crucial for the fight against climate change.
the waste legislation will probably also be completed during your presidency.
we are very concerned, not only about what is happening in my country, in naples, but also because it seems to us that the lip service to the hierarchy, which makes prevention, reuse and reuse the priority, is in fact contradicted by the text of this legislation which once again puts incinerators on the altars, which in our view are certainly not the only way to solve the waste problem.
we need an active policy of social, economic and environmental integration that looks at the whole area and frankly i do not see nuclear as a solution to the energy problems.
i believe that in a caucasian chessboard, which, as we remember, is marked by the escalating war between armenia and azerbaijan, the chechen question, the turkish-armenian conflict and a hundred other problems, having a democratic country and our ally, which also offers an energy alternative to moscow, is a factor of strategic importance.
they concern the excessive weight of biofuels, despite the growing doubts raised by many parties; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of subsidiarity.
they relate to the excessive weight of co2 capture techniques compared to other best practices; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the political will must be to see the climate issue as the real test bed for europe and for a different kind of globalisation.
consistency requires that we move in the direction of 3 and 20% reduction in emissions, energy saving and the use of renewable energy.
it is also crucial to think about new areas, such as the calculation of emissions per capita proposed by mrs merkel, and about adaptation, which particularly concerns those continents such as africa which pollute less and are more dramatically affected by climate change.
the legislature has entered its final phase, much like co2 emissions should be in 2015, when they should peak and then start to decline.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the energy and climate package, which unfortunately we do not know very well, the commission has made a twofold breakthrough: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the kyoto commitments and improve the european energy mix and supply.
we particularly welcome the commitment to promote the spread of renewable energy, greater flexibility in the authorization of state aid granted to promote environmental objectives, and the development of clean sources and technologies for controlling emissions.
i reiterate that europe's leading role in the world in the fight against climate change is unquestionable and indisputable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for presenting this energy and climate change package, on whose priority we are in complete agreement.
the directive on the promotion of renewable energy sources, however, does not seem to me to stress enough the urgency of promoting technologies for the direct conversion of biomass into gas, which allow for many applications, in particular for overall efficiency compared to conventional combustion.
another point i feel i must make is the directive on the storage of carbon dioxide.
this choice is not acceptable, considering that there are different options for carbon capture in energy production processes, such as the use of microalgae in water.
the proposed targets, and in particular the 20% reduction in emissions by 2020, can be achieved despite the many difficulties to be faced.
but what is needed is a common commitment by all countries to an energy policy that can tackle the climate change emergency and finally free europe from its dependence on imports and, consequently, from the continuing rise in energy prices.
the issues of security of supply and renewable energy sources should also be highlighted.
this requires a programme of diversification of energy resources.
greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced by using nuclear power, clean coal and renewable energy sources that are low carbon.
i welcome the energy and climate package that the commission has presented to us.
it is important that the european union continues to play a leading role in the fight against climate change, and therefore it must make a serious commitment to reach the '20, 20, 20 by 2020' target (a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a 20% energy saving target and 20% renewable energy).
however, i would remind the commission that at present the only technology at a mature design stage which can guarantee real energy efficiency and a substantial reduction in co2 emissions is nuclear.
and on the nuclear question, should we overlook or at least doubt the peaceful use of nuclear energy?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in reaffirming the right of peoples to energy self-determination, i welcome the union's attempt to negotiate and i support the synergy of the iaea-iran working plan.
the whole first part of the resolution and the call for the creation of a new multilateral framework for the use of nuclear energy are acceptable.
the recent resolutions on pakistan and china have not had the same energy, nor the same clear support for the domestic opposition.
but we are going to try with all our energy and our best will.
i visited palestine recently and recorded a climate of discouragement, disappointment and resignation among the people, tired of years of broken promises: the situation is deteriorating and there is a serious risk of the palestinian territories being handed over to hamas extremists.
from the outset, our institutions have defined in their discussions the common objective of avoiding populism and demagoguery and focusing on the essential parameters related to this issue, including the social aspects for postal workers and the sustainability of the financing of the universal service.
to sum up, the text in front of you is, on balance, good in substance, and, if you look at its main provisions, you will agree with me that it is faithful to our objective: real market opening not as an end in itself but as the means through which we pursue the broader objective of a high quality, highly efficient and sustainable postal sector adapted to the needs of the 21st century.
the most accurate assessment i have heard since bali is what i read from mr de boer, who as you know is the executive director of the framework convention, who spoke of the fall of the 'berlin climate wall'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, politicians in naples have a habit of sending their waste all over europe.
in accepting the conclusions of the ipcc scientists, all participants recognised at political level that climate change exists, that it is anthropogenic in origin and that action must be taken by 2020 to avoid irreversible damage to the planet's climate.
i hope that copenhagen in 2009 will mark the turning point in the fight against climate change by setting stringent reduction targets by 2020 for all industrialised and developing countries.
non-action, procrastination and exhausting conferences would only lead to irreversible environmental damage.
energy is an urgent issue on which the union is working and we must abandon the false environmentalist approach and look for common solutions to solve the major problems of the energy crisis and development.
the environmental, the economic, the social.
it is to be able to reverse the trend of global warming, to take advantage of this challenge to reorient towards the sustainability of the economy, of work, of competitiveness, which we must absolutely ensure.
we believe that the economic system, democratic stability, the ability to achieve the millennium development goals and to manage migration are all linked to the management of scarce resources and climate change.
finally, mr president, on the important energy package we expect the virtuous sweden to play a positive role and to avoid trying to reduce its commitments and thus to set a bad example for the other member states as well.
we are not protectionists, but it would be blind and a little ideological to think that free trade will solve everything, when we know that without environmental and social rules this is absolutely not possible.
public spending in the member states needs to be re-trained and coordinated towards the priorities of the strategy in order to ensure macroeconomic stability, sustainable growth and the achievement of full employment.
the restructuring of public expenditure, directed in a coordinated manner among the member states towards common investment objectives, including through public-private partnership initiatives, must be linked to research and development, education and training, infrastructure, transport and energy.
there is the issue of poverty eradication and, particularly, education, but also the questions in the general field of human rights and, of course, the big question of energy.
on the other hand, there is the question of energy – both the nabucco pipeline and the odessa-brody-gdańsk pipeline have been mentioned – and, in general, energy security.
i completely agree with you that we want a diversification of our energy policy, even if we have not yet completely reached where we want to go.
on the odessa-brody-gdańsk pipeline, i would like to say that the commission is making every effort to diversify eu energy supplies and routes and, of course, central asia is absolutely crucial here.
apart from that, we also face the issue of energy security regarding the nabucco pipeline.
so we have energy political priorities.
by the way, we are starting to have a sort of memorandum of understanding on energy with turkmenistan too.
i was able to see the considerable progress these countries have made in many areas, from the environment to social issues, largely thanks to the strong impetus of the eu.
firstly, the growing importance of the central asian region in international trade, which is now an important alternative reservoir for energy resources.
to date, there are some 2,518 infringement procedures open in a wide range of areas, in particular in the field of the environment and the internal market.
i would like to mention two concrete examples of the commission's somewhat different approach: the waste crisis in naples and the via baltica motorway in the rospuda valley in poland.
the waste crisis in naples is the direct result of the repeated violations of virtually all community waste rules over the years.
but we must also know that, for example, in environmental matters there are only two or perhaps three officials dealing with all ten new member states and so obviously there is definitely a problem of human resources.
now, did this cataclysm really need to happen, which has been compared to climate change by someone before me?
the removal of barriers, which have always been at the heart of the eu's free trade policy, and the creation of a business-friendly economic climate will reflect a high level of protection for both consumers, through the respect of high standards of health and safety of products, and for businesses, which will finally benefit from a rigorous regulatory and control system for the protection of genuine 'made in'.
in the near future, but perhaps already today, the scenarios will be different and cohesion policy will therefore have to face new and different challenges with a strong territorial impact, such as demographic change, urban concentration and the new dimension, migratory waves, energy supply and climate change.
the regulation that we had in place, which we have in place to this day, was adopted in the emotional climate of the attack on the twin towers on september 11, 2001. it had its own trouble in its formation, but then approved to be applied, and in these years it showed successes, but also gaps and practical inadequacies.
the agenda includes the report by gabriele albertini, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on european sustainable transport policy taking into account european energy and environment policies (2007/2147 (ini)) (a6-0014/2008).
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on european sustainable transport policy is now before the house.
the vast range of topics covered - european transport, energy and environment policies - development and an excessive number of paragraphs would have weakened the text and made parliament's final resolution less clear and incisive.
an own-initiative report cannot deal with and exhaust all the issues related to transport, energy and the environment.
i would like to emphasize two points in particular: the eurovignette is the starting point for calculating all transport costs, including external costs, because lorries are the means of transport which cause the greatest burden not only on transport infrastructure but also on people and the environment.
but it is a fact that co2 emissions from transport in the eu increased by 32.1% between 1990 and 2005, aviation by 90%, while all other sectors were able to reduce the climate killer carbon dioxide by 9.5% in accordance with the kyoto protocol.
we have dealt with pollution and all the problems arising from the means of transport and their use.
we should perhaps take a more general view, particularly with regard to co2 emissions, on the generation of co2 that comes from other sectors of our industrial civilization.
i will just quote a few figures and conclude with this simple observation: while it is true that transport contributes 23% of total co2 emissions in europe, 43% comes from electricity generation, 19% from industry, 15% from residential and commercial use.
and if we want to reduce by 20 percent by 2020 the emissions of these unwanted effects of our civilization, maybe we should act more intensely and more carefully on other sectors as well, as you see, as primary, as co2 emissions, rather than just in transport.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms, and to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
there is certainly something to be said for a sustainable europe.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transport has an impact on the socioeconomic fabric of society and, at the same time, it has a direct impact on environmental issues.
urban transport generates 40% of co2 emissions and makes europe dependent on and hostage to the market for fossil fuels such as oil, which accounts for about 70% of total demand.
the pollution caused by transport must be reduced rapidly by restricting emissions of pollutants, by changing the composition of petrol mixtures and by continuing to encourage the purchase and use of environmentally friendly and non-polluting vehicles.
the eu will therefore have a responsibility to implement an integrated plan to achieve this important objective, committing itself to incentivising rail transport which, when improved as appropriate, can ensure a high level of efficiency with a low environmental impact.
on the other hand, member states must ensure and supervise the construction of such works except in cases of proven environmental or health hazards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to give my favourable vote to mr albertini's excellent report on a european policy for sustainable transport, taking account of european energy and environmental policies.
i believe it is essential that the eu coordinates its policies in order to develop urban public transport and alternative transport systems, while protecting the environment and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in order to reduce gas emissions and improve the efficiency of freight and passenger transport, i reiterate the need for the eu to provide financial support for the implementation of priority projects in the framework of the transeuropean networks.
there are entire supply chains, such as tobacco, which would disappear if total decoupling were applied, creating unemployment and various economic and environmental problems in particularly disadvantaged areas.
but that is precisely why it must be aimed at entrepreneurs, because it creates jobs, it maintains the environment, it guarantees high quality products.
the agenda includes the report by mr csaba sándor tabajdi, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on sustainable agriculture and biogas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world financial disorder must be seriously addressed by the next european council.
the results are not yet the best possible, but we expect that, thanks to the effort and the spirit of compromise shown by mr capoulas and other colleagues in the agri committee, who in some cases went beyond their own national interests, it will be possible in the next stage, with the legislative package to be presented in may and elaborated under the french presidency, to achieve much more ambitious results, especially as regards a fairer redistribution of aid, greater transparency, better rural development policies, an effective safety net as regards the management of risks in the event of natural disasters, the role of agriculture and its contribution to the fight against climate change and in the context of biofuels.
we also share the call for the oil profits to be invested in the welfare of iraq, but we cannot ignore the us-imposed laws which have instead handed over iraq's energy resources to the big us multinationals, allowing them to export all the profits and to make huge profits, such as vice-president cheney's halliburton.
the agenda includes the report by neena gill, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the participation of the community in a research and development programme undertaken by several member states to improve the quality of life of older people through the use of information and communication technologies (ict) (com (2007) 0329 c6-0178/2007 2007/0116 (cod)) (a6-0027/2008).
the vote will take place on thursday 13 march 2008.
the agenda includes the report by mr claude turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the global fund for the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy (2007/2188 (ini)) (a6-0006/2008).
on behalf of the fishermen of the whole adriatic, i can only welcome the decision of this candidate country not to apply the ecological and fisheries protection area (efpa) in the adriatic to the member states of the union.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very clear view of the importance of finally systematically addressing the issue of adaptation to climate change in the european parliament, which, to be honest, we have so far underestimated in its importance.
we are engaged in a very strong battle to do what we can to mitigate global warming and we are discussing a legislative package that should take a very important step forward in this commitment.
and yet we know that the effects of climate change are already being felt in many parts of the world, especially in the poorest areas of the world and also in important parts of our continent and of our europe.
we must therefore react and develop a suitable policy in this direction too, which is not at all incompatible with the priority action that must be taken, i repeat, in the field of emission reduction and the mitigation of global warming.
i think that bali has made a very important step forward in this respect too, when it decided to finance the world environment fund by allocating these cdm quotas specifically to the financing of adaptation projects in developing countries.
i have taken up this aspect of the international dimension because, in drawing up the resolution which we adopted as the clim committee and which we are bringing to the house's attention, this aspect of international cooperation is my top priority: the european union is equipped to develop cooperation and financial and technical-scientific collaboration with the countries that need the most help, having less capacity to cope with the sometimes devastating effects of global warming that have already been produced.
the knowledge available is still insufficient to measure effectively, in the extreme variety of territorial situations, the effects of global warming and it is therefore difficult to set up long-term policies to adapt, to prevent the most worrying aspects.
we have stressed above all the report, the rethinking that needs to be done to take account of climate change in cohesion policies, a rethinking that must also be carried out on the basis of the adaptation of agricultural policies and, more generally, land management.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that this debate is the first outcome of the temporary committee on climate change, which we wanted to have as a venue for developing a system policy, because adaptation and mitigation are intimately linked.
we are talking about adaptation specifically here, but we must not forget how we actually have to make sure that the resources for adaptation also come from trade, from the emissions trading mechanism.
because it is the poorest countries that bear the greatest burden of climate change, we must ensure that the resources that come from the emissions trading complex are originally made available to developing countries.
and so you see, if we think about the poor 1.5 billion people in the world with the quotations that we now have in the current kyoto protocol, which are about 20 euros per ton, giving a carbon right of, say, one ton could make available to the poor people of the world 30 billion euros a year for mitigation measures.
in our area, we have a changing climate which means more intense rain, longer droughts and less snowfall.
i believe that even if we were able to keep global warming within two degrees, this would still mean that europe would be facing a scenario of extreme climate change, with consequences for the local economy, the environment and the population.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy.
finally, i want to conclude by saying that climate change adaptation policies cannot be separated from social equity interventions.
a new model of economic development is needed that includes environmental costs and focuses on sustainability as a factor in employment development and new social policies.
climate change is bound to make this situation worse.
the cost is particularly high for those continents, such as africa, which already suffer from terrible conditions and which, although they are the least polluting, suffer the most from climate change.
desertification must be combated and the role of soil as a factor in climate balance promoted: that's our policy.
adaptation, then, is not about surrendering to climate change but about taking action to combat it.
− the sixth community environment action programme, which has set the guidelines for european policy on climate, biodiversity, environment and health and natural resources, has achieved important results.
however, as commissioner dimas himself has noted, the eu is far behind in achieving its environmental protection targets, especially in the area of air pollution, with its associated greenhouse effect, health and acid rain problems.
the cut in funding for natura 2000 and the life+ programme is also raising serious concerns for small local authorities, who will suffer a significant reduction in their scope for action in relation to the effectiveness of environmental policies in defence of their territory.
moreover, while the climate and energy package, the revision of the waste directive and the revision of the ippc should help us to ensure a more sustainable future for europe, we have an urgent need and responsibility to revise the sixth programme to reshape eu environmental action for the coming decades.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i also expressed my concern at the low rate of utilization of payment appropriations for measures to combat marine pollution, despite parliament's continued support for these measures.
first of all, the question of the three sites, which was raised by the rapporteur, to which we must add the financial cost and the environmental impact.
multiple causes, which have already been mentioned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
i do not think that the price rise is due to climate change or the high cost of fuel, which - although it does affect - does not do so to the extent that it is imputed to it, and it should be stressed that we are still enjoying a favourable euro-dollar ratio.
china's contribution to africa as a donor is great, but in these few seconds i want to highlight two aspects: it is worrying for us europeans - also on the basis of the principles and commitments enshrined in the cotonou agreement and more generally in line with the overall framework of our development policy - that china, alongside aid, is unfortunately exporting some bad domestic practices, including corruption, bad lending, failure to respect workers' rights, a lack of consideration for environmental issues.
i believe that this is beneficial for both continents, partly because of the greater sensitivity to sustainable development which can undoubtedly be attributed to european strategies, compared with those of the united states and china, for example.
to this end, i hope that the eu will develop a coherent strategy to ensure that china respects issues such as governance, the fight against corruption, the protection of human rights, labour and the environment, and to ensure that there are clear and transparent agreements between the two countries.
the experience of frontex must be supported and represents the frontier of european civilization in the face of the onslaught of illegal immigration which is so desirable, which very often represents very painful humanitarian tragedies and represents a great deal for criminal organizations of a mafia nature and for this very reason it must be tackled with the necessary energy.
competition and coordination with other international organizations is absolutely necessary, and we must therefore also strengthen relations with international labour organizations and with certain un agencies, because social and environmental issues of great international importance cannot remain outside the scope of the wto's activities.
i am using this political and technical comfort to remind the commission that we must not waste time, because woe to those who have time and who waste it!
taking global responsibility for the fight against climate change is a crucial task that must be achieved at several levels: the world of business, institutions, but also individuals.
as european citizens, we can reduce our ecological footprint substantially and achieve important results simply by taking small steps that can have a global and significant impact, including through purchasing choices.
in addition to promoting research into new technologies, it is important to ensure that they are made accessible to the consumer and disseminated to the extent that they bring environmental benefits to the community.
we regret that 16 countries representing the world's largest economies, meeting in paris on 16 and 18 april, were unable to agree on a joint resolution to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2050. however, we are confident that the further negotiations in kobe and hokkaido will be more successful in this respect, also because i am convinced that the fight against climate change must be done at global level or else it will only be a heavy burden on european companies, making them less competitive with non-european producers without achieving the objective of global environmental improvement.
the levers of the economy must be acted upon with market instruments and the way forward must be towards eco-friendly and sustainable production systems in the long term; i welcome the commission's green paper in this respect.
the european union must promote the dissemination in the member states of market instruments which make it possible to internalize the environmental costs of products and promote energy efficiency and thermal insulation in buildings.
i think it is essential that the european union reaches the target of 20% renewable energy consumption by 2020.
the debate is closed.
the report by mr ouzky on the european strategy on biodiversity (cop 9) and the prevention of biotechnological risks (cop-mop 4) calls for the protection of biological diversity and the fair sharing of the benefits arising from the exploitation of these resources.
the commission therefore expects a spike in inflation in the near future, driven by the rapid rise in food, energy and raw material prices.
on the contrary, europe and the united states must join forces to create a fairer trading system, putting the issue of enforcing environmental and social standards on the agenda and prioritising development, poverty reduction, environmental protection and cultural diversity rather than imposing deregulation that favours the rapid movement of capital and the profits of multinationals.
the council and the commission must act in accordance with and in defence of community legislation, to guarantee the right of european citizens to safe food and a safe environment.
the european union and the united states must also take a leading role in the development of renewable energy sources by developing technical solutions that are environmentally sustainable.
this strong presence and the absence of effective local legislation in the field of employment oblige us, through the new agreement, to provide for strict regulation not only of an economic nature but, above all, of a social, environmental and human rights nature, thus also limiting the effect of 'dumping'.
the safety of products, the protection of workers and the environment cannot and must not be jeopardized by any kind of purely economic agreement.
i have to say, mr nassauer, that if you had asked me a year ago whether i thought we would have reached a bipartisan agreement on the protection of the environment in criminal matters, with mr nassauer as rapporteur and on first reading, i probably would not have believed it.
it is not just the commission, but also the council, which has been able to achieve this, and the rapporteur, and also the shadow rapporteurs, and of course the very valuable work of the committee on the environment.
we would simply have preferred a system proposed by the commission and approved by the committee on the environment, which made it very clear that a whole range of offences were automatically considered to be punishable by criminal law beyond the reference directives.
there is a climate of intolerance and hostility that is rising in europe and that is already producing, let us think of immigration and the roma, processes of discrimination on ethnic grounds.
however, to achieve an effective consumer protection policy, the eu will need to invest a lot of energy in improving market surveillance, including by strengthening international cooperation, and in information and education campaigns for consumers themselves: the european market will not be able to fulfil its potential until the system gives the consumer the full assurance that his products are safe.
- europe, thanks in part to its strategic geographical location, must be an international example in maritime policy in the use of the economic potential of the sea, a very valuable source of renewable energy.
the establishment of territorial centres of excellence, encouragement of support for university centres in coastal areas and an action plan driven by innovation, research and environmental protection of the seas would allow a further step towards a real eco-sustainable use of marine resources.
the report also suggests that the action plan should make a significant contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through the use of fair emission trading systems, consolidating research efforts in the use of the seas as a source of renewable energy and introducing equal treatment for tax purposes of electricity and marine fuels.
i agree that an integrated maritime policy is necessary not only because the sea is one of the most important economic and trade resources for the european union and therefore needs to be protected, but also because effective and sustainable synergy between member states means better management and development.
i believe it is essential, among other things, that maritime traffic be regulated and improved in line with the objectives of combating climate change and that the marine resource also be given attention as a potential source of clean and alternative energy.
there are events of very different importance and severity: attacks on roma, the degradation and poverty of entire areas controlled by organized crime, where italians and migrants compete for nothing, the tragic waste crisis, and the latest incredible statements on the verge of homophobia by our new and really beautiful italian minister for equal opportunities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the serious economic, energy and security situation of all the citizens of the union should perhaps have led this parliament to take responsible action to try to control the harmonized fear that seems to be creeping up in all the countries of the union.
these types of responses risk fuelling a dangerous climate that can lead to violence and racism.
there is a climate of witch-hunting against romanian and roma citizens with punitive expeditions and burning of nomadic camps.
i think that italy has no chance of tackling this problem, given the very serious problems - think of waste, think of work, think of the housing problem!
as for the problem of waste, as for the problem of non-community and community citizens, it is a directive which can lead to a solution.
i would like to add, in a very informal way, a thank you to all the members and political groups who are working and have worked very hard in this year of commitment by the special committee on climate change, in which - i must tell the truth - a very strong climate of unity has been achieved, a very strong conviction that beyond marginal areas of dissent it is good to be there.
climate change is here, it is happening fast, so we have to act very quickly, and as karl-heinz said, it is not only a problem but also an opportunity.
it is precisely on the basis of this knowledge that the world political climate has changed in the space of a year, commissioner dimas, and not just global warming.
the global political climate has also changed, and it's changed to bali, to a collective acknowledgement of the validity of the ipcc research, and it's changed in the last few months to some really interesting leadership shifts.
as vice-chairman of the temporary committee on climate change, i am pleased with the first results of the joint work and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr florenz, my colleagues and mr sacconi.
i think above all of the catastrophic prospects that climate change projects on already very difficult problems such as poverty, public health, access to natural resources and, foremost among these, water, and i believe that once we have taken the first step on this journey of discovery into the phenomenon with the writing of this first report on the scientific evidence we should take on a mission impossible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr florenz, very much for his good work and, above all, for the way in which he has put to good use the work of the committee on climate change, which has been so well led by mr guido sacconi, for a number of months.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the klaus-heiner lehne report on 'simplifying the corporate environment' because i am convinced of the need for 'further' reforms in the areas of company law, accounting and budgetary control.
at the same time, clear and easily identifiable provisions help to create a positive and active economic environment.
− the latest intergovernmental conference on climate change and the various conferences under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) have shown that man-made greenhouse gases are the cause of climate change and that the rise in global temperature to + 2°c above pre-industrial levels must be stopped.
i therefore agree with the committee on climate change and the rapporteur in calling for more stringent action and more studies on the effects of climate change, monitoring phenomena such as desertification, glacier melting, changes in the marine environment, catastrophic atmospheric events, etc.
the latest reports from the european environment agency indicate that much more needs to be done to meet the kyoto targets and the additional reduction targets set by the eu council in march 2007. in the light of the energy and climate package, the communication on limiting climate change to 2°c, i believe, however, that further measures can be taken to improve 'energy efficiency' which would allow for significant savings in greenhouse gas emissions.
this is also done through a labelling system which indicates the environmental footprint in relation to the greenhouse gas parameter.
i believe that individuals, european citizens and people in third countries, should be more directly involved in promoting awareness and active participation in the fight against climate change through small energy saving actions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the use of depleted uranium for military purposes is contrary to international law, and there is overwhelming evidence of its real toxicity to both man and the environment.
with other colleagues - and i am pleased to see all the political forces - i wanted this debate very much, because it is essential to act against violations of international, humanitarian and environmental law.
a recent bbc study showed that within 24 hours of the massive bombing of the balkans, atmospheric radioactivity detection points in northern england were at an all-time high.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
- mr president, the aarhus convention recognises that everyone has the right to live in an environment that ensures their health and well-being and the duty to protect the environment, and that to assert this right and fulfil this obligation citizens must have access to information, be able to participate in decision-making processes and have access to justice in environmental matters.
it is of great importance that the national and european institutions representing the citizens are more closely involved in this process, not only so that full access to environmental information can be achieved, but also so that the information given is above all correct.
rules must be established to avoid alarms which are sometimes exaggerated and to make environmental protection a duty for all, citizens and institutions.
the report is full of talk about climate change, but it ignores the danger of possible military attacks, of terrorist attacks of a biological or even nuclear nature, a danger that is much more serious and perhaps real, given the explicit threat of islamic terrorism.
yet it is the chessboard on which our energy future, our security, is decided.
this is because, while the economic and environmental damage caused by this illegal activity is serious, the objectives to be achieved in terms of consumer protection with a quality product and the protection of the fishermen's profession, which is now more than ever in crisis due to a number of factors, not only economic but also structural.
among these challenges i would mention security, environmental protection, the sustainability of energy supplies, the fight against organised crime, the control of migration flows and intercultural dialogue.
the commission proposes, as an indication, the promotion of motorways of the sea, the interconnection of the arab maghreb motorway, the promotion of solar energy and the cleanup of the mediterranean.
to this end the commission has identified four projects, which our commissioner mentioned here this morning, which are in addition to the activities already planned: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, including the creation of a highway of the sea, the clean-up of the mediterranean, environmental governance, cooperation in civil protection to deal with natural disasters and, finally, a plan for solar energy in the mediterranean.
the union for the mediterranean will facilitate the implementation of important crossborder projects throughout the area, which will improve sea highways, tackle marine pollution, improve civil protection, create greater integration of the energy market and develop new renewable technologies.
illegal fishing is one of the biggest threats to the sustainability of fish stocks and marine biodiversity.
the community's policy on the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and the community's policy on the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
- the madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs jackson, for her excellent contribution to the revision of the waste framework directive, and the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment for their positive and constructive contribution.
the directive introduces a modern approach to waste management.
it treats waste as exploitable raw materials.
by incorporating the provisions of the hazardous waste directive and the spent mineral oils directive, the directive contributes to the wider effort to improve legislation and simplify the community acquis.
among these are the hierarchy of waste into 5 categories, new provisions on the separate collection of bio-waste and hazardous waste, and many useful clarifications.
the directive establishes a new framework for waste management and provides a solid foundation for other community policy initiatives.
and i say this to my friends in the green group and the gue, but i also say this to my friend florenz, who saw an amendment from the committee on the environment bearing my signature being reintroduced and which i cannot but share.
i say this to you sincerely, by analysing the texts, the compromise text and the text from the committee on the environment, we have really achieved something.
it is also of great importance that we have finally set in motion a political and legal process to oblige the states to give themselves real plans for the prevention of waste, and that we have finally incorporated into european legislation, with a legally binding character, a hierarchy of waste treatment which respects the environment, such that waste is not only a problem but a resource.
i also agree with the insistence on a precise waste hierarchy and its articulation.
it is also essential to have statistically reliable and comparable data in order to be able to reason both in terms of the prevention and recycling of industrial waste.
i agree with the rapporteur that energy recovery plants play an important role in the treatment of waste and that today, given the european union's dependence on unsafe imported energy from many other parts of the world, we are faced with an important choice in this area as well.
i would like to conclude by saying that i also welcome the amendments relating to the regeneration of waste oils, which were removed at an earlier stage.
italy is unfortunately the bad example here of waste management which has not respected either the spirit or the letter of european legislation, which has long been consolidated in a virtuous hierarchy ranging from reduction to recycling.
this hierarchy must be strengthened with quantified and certain reduction and recycling targets, including for industrial waste, and not weakened, as is sometimes the case, leaving room for disposal policies that betray its philosophy.
italy, for example, has spent billions of euros in recent years to encourage the practice of incinerating waste, with results that are obvious to everyone and are certainly not positive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise reached is a step backwards compared with the text adopted by the committee on the environment.
the original text stipulated that from 2012 waste generation should be reduced to 2009 levels, establishing a real prevention policy with measures graduated over time.
envi had set minimum targets for the recycling of domestic and industrial waste which were to be achieved in a certain but distant time.
these targets have also been watered down, limiting them to only certain types of material and excluding industrial waste.
i believe that specific measures are needed to combat water pollution caused by individual pollutants, or groups of pollutants, which pose a significant risk to the aquatic environment.
this proposal aims to ensure a high level of protection in view of the risks posed by these priority substances (and certain other pollutants) to the aquatic environment and sets environmental quality standards to this end.
i refer to the conclusions reached by the council, which leave little room for a concrete breakthrough in the creation of a competitive and competitive energy market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this package comes to parliament in the midst of the great challenge that energy represents for the future of our society.
the unsustainable, unstoppable rise in oil prices, the perverse effects of the use of biofuels on food availability and the great energy hunger of the developing countries tell us that action by the european union is no longer just a necessity but an indispensable one.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that in a europe which is being hit day by day by inflation and by a galloping cost of living due in large part to the price of energy, it is absolutely incumbent on us to speak of a european charter of consumer rights, and i share the report and i thank both the honourable member and, of course, the commission for this.
it is right to stress that energy supply is an indispensable precondition for participation in economic and social life.
i would like to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
as if that were not enough, the european union continues to approve wrong, weak policies, such as yesterday's jackson directive, today's weber directive, which are incapable of offering a positive and hopeful perspective, where everything from workers' rights to environmental rights to those of migrants is finding ever more restricted spaces, where industrial lobbies have more say than citizens, where the european interest is nowhere to be found, buried by the cries of this or that government, where the right to choose and individual freedoms or the arrival of new europeans is experienced as an intolerable attack on the identity of peoples who, like the italian and the irish, have migrants scattered throughout the world.
we will discuss the problem of food and oil prices, we will discuss economic, social and environmental issues, we will discuss international development challenges, we will discuss the question of the western balkans.
it has taken a long time and a lot of energy to discuss the underlying issues and the problems behind the need for a new treaty to design a new machinery for a european union that has changed so dramatically in a short period of time.
we would like to stand up on the international scene, to fight for sustainable development, to discuss oil prices, conflict prevention and other important issues.
assessing that the reasons for the increase in oil prices are structural and that this trend is likely to continue, we need to look for long-term solutions within the union: promoting competitiveness in energy markets, increasing the transparency of the oil market and, above all, improving energy efficiency and diversifying the energy supply.
on energy efficiency, the european council in march last year set a target of 20% energy savings by 2020. the directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services, adopted in 2006, also contributes to this objective.
the second measure mentioned concerns the diversification of energy supply.
i would remind you that in this context the spring european council last year adopted an action plan for an energy policy for europe.
for the eu, with a 37% share in energy consumption coming from oil, it is easy to understand the actual and potential impact of the high oil prices on our economies and citizens.
a continuing increase in imports consequently makes our oil dependency high and the amount that we are paying for buying energy resources is increasing all the time.
the contribution of energy to the increase in the price index in the fourth quarter of 2007 averaged 0.8% in the euro area.
this means direct, tangible impacts on households and on a lot of economic sectors, not least those who cannot pass on the price of energy to the final consumer.
since then we have been working out a whole series of new proposals to begin to reply to the challenge of high and growing oil prices: on energy efficiency, on cars, on fuel quality, on renewable energy.
we now have roughly more or less stable consumption in the last three years and the beginning of the switch to cleaner, more efficient transport that uses renewable energy sources.
whilst more needs to be done, and certainly we should not underestimate the problems resulting from high energy prices for our citizens, particularly the most vulnerable households as well as many businesses, this already provides a good basis on which to further develop the best possible policy response to the challenge.
i am convinced that without our ambitious climate and energy goals the situation would be even more difficult.
put simply, we are leaving the era of cheap oil, and cheap energy in general.
global energy demand is growing and the international energy agency estimates that it could increase by more than 50% by 2030. in particular, emerging economies are consuming more and more energy.
as the international energy agency has stated, it is far from certain whether the producing countries have the ability or willingness to step up production to meet seemingly inevitable and long-term continued increases in global oil demand.
the era of cheap energy is over, at a time when in any event we have an absolute obligation to future generations to move to clean, carbon-free energy sources for heat, power and transport due to climate change.
experience has shown that such measures, whilst in many ways politically very attractive, in fact only make the longer-term transition to dealing with high energy prices and saving carbon more difficult.
in terms of further developing the eu’s long-term approach to meeting the challenge, our existing energy policies are viewed by many as a ‘world leader’.
the commission has always insisted that its recent climate and energy package had the combined objectives of sustainability, security of supply and competitiveness, a fact becoming clearer by the day.
let me recall in more detail the most important elements of these policies, already in place or under examination in this house: the draft directive guaranteeing 20% renewables in our final energy consumption by 2020; the new rules to expand and strengthen the eu’s emissions trading system (ets), ensuring that we meet our target of a 20% greenhouse gas reduction by 2020 and establishing the ets as driver for change; the proposal for reducing co2 emissions from cars and the fuel quality directive that will oblige oil suppliers to progressively reduce their co2 and energy consumption in the products they sell; and, most importantly, the energy efficiency action plan, covering all sectors, at all levels, from the international partnership for energy efficiency cooperation to the covenant of mayors at the local level, to specific measures such as labelling of consumer goods or requirements for the energy efficiency of buildings.
practically all the measures mentioned in the energy efficiency action plan are cost effective at usd 60 per barrel of oil.
it will scrutinise the functioning of the oil and petroleum markets in the european union and make suggestions for possible further policy action in the second strategic energy review later this year.
it will assist oil-importing developing countries to mitigate short-term impacts of high fuel and food prices and to bring about structural improvements in their energy efficiency performance and the use of alternatives fuels.
it will lead efforts in an increased drive for energy efficiency.
it also means pushing for a more effective international energy efficiency partnership, which was adopted last week at the g8 energy ministerial in japan on the initiative of the european union.
the existing legislation on energy efficiency and the improvements that i will table over the coming months on buildings, labelling and minimum product standards are truly important, but have to be seen as only one of many measures needed.
the real challenge is the effective implementation of energy efficiency policies at national, regional and local level throughout the european union.
in the draft renewables directive we translate the commitment of the european council to ensure that 10% of eu transport is powered by renewable fuel by 2020 into practice.
it should be noted that this 10% can be covered by biofuels or electricity from renewable sources, or by increasing energy efficiency in the transport fleet.
i am convinced that the eu can and must generate the biofuels that it uses in a sustainable and responsible manner and not affect global food-production levels.
this can be done in a sustainable way by using previous set-aside land in the eu, improving land yields in a sustainable way, investing in technology for second generation biofuels, and working together with developing countries to ensure that biofuels complement food production and not replace it.
with such an approach, the development of alternative clean transport fuels must be part of the eu’s response to the challenges of oil prices and climate change.
we should use the credibility we are building and lead international action to exploit energy efficiency potentials and clean energy production around the globe, and enable the functioning of global efficient and trustworthy commodity markets.
however, action starts at home, and a renewed push for renewable energy and energy efficiency is beneficial not only for the climate but also for our economy.
there is an energy future for all of us.
as with climate change, action is needed now and the commission is fully involved in this.
i believe that the commissioner has outlined the line on which the european union can seriously focus, namely our development model, renewable energy and therefore the need and urgency to revise the objectives that have been set - 20% on energy, 10% on transport - to make them even more ambitious, to deal with them in even shorter time.
unfortunately, as the gas policies on which we voted today show, it is the national states that are opposed to a genuine european policy of competition and a mix of energy sources.
renewable energy, long-term strategic plans: that's what we're asking for, faster than it's planned.
european fisheries commissioner joe borg believes that rapid aid is possible but also argues that the long-term solution to the sector's crisis lies in restructuring the fleet: it's smaller and less energy-intensive.
in the explanatory memorandum to her report, ms gurmai writes: 'the ever-increasing volume of road traffic is leading to serious social and environmental problems: congestion of road networks and cities, environmental damage, impairment of public health, waste of energy, accidents and, above all, unnecessary loss of human life.'
but we are only doing a very limited job of solving the real social and environmental problems.
if rising fuel prices are a problem, if energy consumption as a whole must be reduced urgently, if we want to reduce the irresponsibly high level of co2 emissions, and if we want to do something about climate change, we will not achieve this with the philosophy of always more, always higher, always faster, always more refined, always more mobile, but rather with a different lifestyle, with slower, more modest, more economical!
the institute for environmental and climate change research in heidelberg calculated a few years ago that an average car in germany receives about 3,000 euros a year in state or taxpayer support, when all direct and indirect transport costs are taken into account.
it is not possible to support environmental damage and health risks, but on the contrary, in accordance with the principle of cost-effectiveness, those who cause damage must pay.
the agenda for the joint debate includes the following recommendations for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety: on the uniform procedure for the authorisation of food additives, enzymes and flavourings (16673/2/2007 - c6-0138/2008 - 2006/0143 ((cod)) (rapporteur: åsa westlund) (a6-0179/2008) on food additives (16675/2/2007 - c6-0141/2008 - 2006/0145 ((cod)) (rapporteur: åsa westlund) (a6-0180/2008); on the common organisation of the market in food and feed products (com (2004) 0147 - c6-0138/2008 - c6-0148/2008)) (rapporteur: mr j. on flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties for use in and on foods and amending council regulation (eec) no 1576/89, council regulation (eec) no 1601/91, regulation (ec) no 2232/96 and directive 2000/13/ec (16677/3/2007 - c6-0139/2008 - 2006/0147 (cod)) (rapporteur: dr mojca murčarko) (a6-0177/2008); on food enzymes and amending council directive 83/417/eec, council regulation (ec) no 1493/1999, directive 2000/13/ec and council directive 2001/112/ec (16676/1/2007 - c6-0140/2008 - 2006/0144 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs avril doyle) (a6-0176/2008) the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a report on the use of food enzymes in food and the use of food additives in food.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on amending directive 2003/87/ec to integrate aviation activities into the community greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme (05058/3/2008 - c6-0177/2008 - 2006/0304) (peter liese) (a6-0220/2008).
the aim of reducing energy dependence requires a single energy market and a single integrated network.
it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to decide whether we want tomorrow to be remembered as a key moment in the creation of an integrated single energy market, which europe needs to face the challenges of the next millennium, or whether, on the contrary, it will mark yet another downward compromise, the result of a timid and timid attempt at reform to be postponed substantially to the next legislature.
with the imminent completion of the legislative work on this technical but economically very important legislative package, railway undertakings will be able to play their full role in ensuring sustainable transport in a market open to competition between them and with other modes of transport.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro zone is suffering from energy prices which neither the ecb, nor the union, nor governments are able to control.
i believe that erasmus mundus is an essential tool for sustainable development because, as my report emphasizes, it will have to encourage students to return to their home countries and, with the wealth of ideas, knowledge and international contacts they have acquired, contribute to the growth of the economies of origin.
i believe it is essential to ensure that the financial allocations in the 2008 annual programmes for argentina and brazil, specifically intended to promote economic development and well-being, are actually used both for education and for concrete interventions on the ground and that they provide infrastructure and means of production for sustainable development.
other measures are aimed at improving energy efficiency and reducing emissions from fishing vessels, and at promoting the abandonment of environmentally harmful fishing techniques such as trawling.
there is no economic future without respect for the environment and there is no respect for rights without the recognition of the respective duties.
we must harmonize the laws of our countries, from immigration to child protection, from energy to compatible progress.
that is why i very much appreciated the energy you put into a speech which, as mrs lulling has just said on television for example, we found clear, we found precise and we found, i say, stripped of all fashions, convincing.
volunteering will probably need your energy in this area of culture as well.
we are witnessing a war where the nationalist aspirations of local leaderships are overlaid by the clash between the great powers for control of energy resources: the gas and oil pipelines that run from central asia to the west are the real reason for the conflict.
but it is equally good that someone like italian president berlusconi has kept an open channel of dialogue with moscow, to explain europe's reasons and to warn that the prospect of the reopening of a cold war climate - not only from a political point of view, not only from an economic and political point of view, but also and above all from a historical point of view - from the point of view of the prospects of a europe which will naturally be able to understand russia as well as historical developments or which may be closed down for good.
they should therefore be managed in such a way as to ensure both sustainable fisheries exploitation and the increasing demand for fishery products.
to this end, eu states need to implement a series of measures to safeguard coastal zones and promote a clean marine environment.
tourism which interacts with policies to protect the landscape and the environment.
- i am voting in favour of the gklavakis report which stresses the need for a european strategy to take care of coastal areas in the context of sustainable development.
a strategy for integrated coastal zone management can provide the appropriate framework for the sustainable exploitation of coastal zones and activities.
it is commendable that the report not only meets the united nations harmonisation programme but also appears to be consistent, taking into account the needs of producers and consumers and, of course, i would say the environment as far as is objectively possible.
as usual, some of my colleagues are not satisfied, and i have the impression that this is due to an ideological radicalisation of technological and scientific progress which all too often, in the name of protecting the environment, seeks to coerce man.
this certainly contributes to improving safety and preventing hazards to the health and safety of consumers, workers and the environment.
we have succeeded in achieving our stated objective of starting the new system on time and in compliance with the reach regulation, while ensuring a high level of protection of the environment and health, as well as the commercial needs of companies that will be able to access foreign markets more easily.
i share the opposition of those who say that ghs is also an ongoing process and therefore, on the other hand, it is a way of working that we have set up; i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
i believe that, while there is a need for dialogue with russia, we must ensure that we do not become totally dependent on russia in energy policy or remain largely dependent on russia, because this also significantly reduces the possibility of discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, on a small island in sardinia, some separatists from the sardinian independence party, using peaceful methods and ecological intentions, proclaimed a republic with the poetic and polynesian-sounding name of the 'republic of maluventu'.
this report adds interesting new elements, new approaches to the subject, (seeing the environmental issue as a sufficient reason to adopt restrictive measures).
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment.
i would like to stress one specific point which is contained in paragraph 6 of the report and which concerns crimes and environmental destruction.
i would like to take this opportunity of the french presidency to remind you that in the face of a regime like burma it is clear that excluding energy from the list of sanctions makes those sanctions very ineffective.
the new road of liberalization must therefore be pursued with the understanding that governments must adapt to the needs of their citizens and not - as has unfortunately sometimes happened in africa - when they are unable to provide basic services such as water or energy, then sell these possibilities to provide services to economic companies linked to governments in other countries, because there is obviously the risk of economic and political problems and security, also at international level.
i also welcome the calls for the green paper to be timely and for pollution of confined spaces to be avoided, and i would stress the sensitivity shown by the rapporteur to the health impact of electromagnetic fields on humans.
an area that is much more affected by climate change, for example, in the alps than in the lowlands.
the old, well-established methods must therefore be maintained, but new and old methods must be combined to preserve agriculture as the lifeblood of mountain areas, and other important areas must also be included: the sustainable use of nature in its various forms, the creation and improvement of transport networks, not only physical transport but also data transfer, i.e.
the new needs to be integrated, such as training and continuing training, sensitivity to the richness of species in the natural environment, adaptation to climate change, which has already been mentioned.
i hope that the approval of the plenary will be similar to that of the committee on agriculture, and i ask the commissioner to intervene in the commission accordingly and to point out that the achievement of the mountain population is an achievement for the whole population which must bear fruit and be rewarded accordingly, an achievement in ecological and touristic terms which must be taken into account because it guarantees that there is no depopulation, as for example in piedmont, in lombardy, in parts of spain or france.
a truly sustainable economic and nutritional approach must be at the heart of a sustainable european agricultural policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the ecological farming industry must get out of its niche.
this form of management is also the best protection for the cultural landscape and the environment.
so i thank, of course, mrs roure, who has defended with great energy this balance and data protection.
anyway, the point is very simple: i think we cannot be in a position to regret that we have not taken the necessary decisions in the face of recurring accidents - and i insist - not only those which have concerned the protection of the environment, the coastlines and the seas, such as erika and prestige, but also human lives, such as the serious ones which have fortunately fallen into the sea far away from us so far - recently - but also those which are apparently smaller.
my report also contains a strategy which i believe should be common to all of us: the commission's proposal is to make the best use of all the european expertise in environmental protection and consumer protection.
we expect strong proposals on judicial, criminal and police cooperation which are based on mutual recognition of procedural guarantees; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
beyond this, we need to keep in mind what our challenges are for the medium to long term, and we need to preserve, in this very difficult environment, the stability and growth pact, the lisbon strategy, and the energy and climate change strategies, which are extremely important now.
the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the council on energy price control, by hannes swoboda, on behalf of the pse group (o-0082/2008 - b6-0460/2008), the oral question to the commission on energy price control, by hannes swoboda, on behalf of the pse group (o-0083/2008 - b6-0461/2008), the oral question to the council on energy price control, by giles chichester, anne laperrouze, sophia in 't veld, eugenijus maldeikis, on behalf of the ppe-de, alde and uen groups (o-0089/2008 - b6-0463/2008), the oral question to the commission on energy price control, by giles chichester, anne laperrouze, sophia in 't veld, eugenijus maldeikis, on behalf of the ppe-de, alde and uen groups (o-0090/2008 - b6-0465/2008), the oral question to the commission on energy price control, by rebecca harms, claude turmes, on behalf of the green group (o-0091/2008 - b6-0466/2008), the oral question to the council on energy price control, by esko seppänen, ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-0093/2008 - b6-0468/2008), the oral question to the commission on energy price control, by seppänen, ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-0094/2008 - b6-069/2008),
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a ceiling on energy prices, to say it in a little more than a minute, i dare say it is impossible.
a strategy that therefore rewards energy efficiency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the trend in energy prices is choking the economy and eroding the purchasing power of households, whose energy bills are rising.
in this new context, the link between energy prices and foreign policy is evident and hence the increased political weight of the producing countries.
it is clear that europe must pursue a short-term strategy based on accelerating the use of renewable energy sources, promoting and researching new forms of natural and clean energy and building new pipelines, and therefore also increasing oil and gas stocks.
unfortunately, the capacity is only 50%, so the energy which can be taken up is only 50%.
under council regulation no 1 of 15 april 1958, as amended by article 1 of council regulation no 920/2005 of 13 june 2005, irish acquired the status of an official language and working language of the institutions of the european union with effect from 1 january 2007. however, articles 2 and 3 of the regulation provide for a partial derogation, renewable every five years, concerning the use of the irish language by the institutions of the european union.
the problem is simple: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, now senator of the italian republic, adriana poli bortone, from whom i inherited the draft report and an already careful and thorough study of the problem; i would like to thank my colleagues who have worked with me in carrying out the in-depth study and analysis of the phenomenon with enthusiasm and dedication, and the shadow rapporteurs, who have undoubtedly contributed with their commitment to the implementation of the text in the committee on the environment, with political and practically unanimous agreement.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
and this investment is a shared responsibility of the individual who must activate healthy lifestyles by holding their own behaviours accountable, of the healthcare staff who must preserve their sense of professional ethics, of the national and regional governments who must pay particular attention to the sustainability of healthcare systems.
− the problems of water scarcity and drought, which are directly related, affect many regions of southern europe in particular, with catastrophic effects on the environment and on indigenous peoples.
the protection of ecosystems, water resources, drinking and bathing waters are the foundations on which the protection of the environmental system is based.
i also welcome the work done by my colleague, who has highlighted the main issues that the union should be dealing with: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
this is why a specific eu policy for this region is needed, which respects the indigenous peoples and the environment.
i support the initiative of my colleague, because the environment is a particularly important issue and requires a political or legal structure across borders, capable of mediating political conflicts over natural resources.
as from 1 january 2009. the new programme for minors using the internet and other communication technologies, as it is known, will be structured around four main lines of action: reducing illegal or harmful content and countering harmful behaviour online; promoting a safer online environment, including through ad hoc technological tools; information, participation and prevention to raise public awareness of the opportunities and risks associated with the use of online technologies and to create a knowledge base to foster international collaboration, exchange of good practice and information.
i have had the opportunity to speak to some of the country's most senior officials during my recent visit to new zealand, and they have reiterated their interest in strengthening this cooperation through the framework programme on food, agriculture and biotechnology, information and communication technologies, health, the environment and the mobility of researchers.
since the fund is intended to provide additional support to workers who are threatened by the new competitive environment and the business models in today's world trade, i believe that the request to mobilise the fund can be accepted without any doubt.
− i voted in favour of the report by anders wijkman on the need for a global alliance against climate change between the eu, the least developed countries (ldcs) and small island developing states (sids), because i believe it is imperative to strengthen the eu's external action on the common challenges of climate change and poverty reduction as a step towards the implementation of the eu action plan on climate change and development (2004), based on a greater awareness that climate change must transform the way development aid is conceived.
as a member of the development committee, i am particularly sensitive to this decision which has the potential to complement the international climate change negotiations in poznan 2008 and copenhagen 2009. the distrust between industrialised and developing countries, which has been one of the main obstacles to a post-2012 climate change agreement, must be overcome.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr wijkman's report on the creation of a world alliance against climate change.
the climate issue has been on the agenda for some years: a lot has been done, but it's still not enough.
the aim is to strengthen the eu's external action on climate change by: therefore, policy dialogue between the eu and the pvs needs to be promoted to facilitate the integration of climate change considerations into poverty reduction plans at local and national level.
i also welcome the inclusion in the text of the question of the management of the structural funds: member states should be reminded that, in order to benefit from the funds under the 2007-2013 financial framework, they must bring their legislation into line with european legislation, especially as regards environmental protection, in order to promote economic and social development at regional level in an appropriate way.
the best way to defend rights is not to be subjected to energy blackmail; but to change our situation of dependence on russia, they need not only to diversify their energy supplies but also to invest in clean alternative energy.
the agenda calls for the report by dan jørgensen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the revised proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport (com (2007) 0817 final) (a6-0291/2008)
on behalf of the alde group.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr jørgensen for the document and i believe that it is really a coherent action with the whole energy and environment package we are discussing and precisely to act on public procurement to guide the choice of the institutions, of course, but i would first of all say, upstream of this, to guide the choice of the manufacturers.
this is really a coherent framework of specifications that vehicles must meet, both in terms of the parameters relating to the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions and other parameters directly related to pollution and health.
it would also be a little worrying to have a monetary valuation, which, as far as carbon dioxide is concerned, is already something of a current issue for the kyoto protocol in the context of emissions trading.
however, it is clear that the aim is specifically to find comparative elements, not to encourage - indeed, to reduce - emissions, including health effects.
so, technical specifications for energy and environmental performance.
this commitment will support actions to raise public awareness, combat illegal content and harmful behaviour to promote a safer environment.
finally, we would like the commission to report to us and to quantify, also from an economic point of view, the measures taken to make our institutions greener and more sustainable.
since the conditions for a decision are not in place, since essential information is still lacking, i reiterate the need to ask the commission, before the expiry of the three-month deadline, to carry out an impact assessment on fundamental rights and to draw up an opinion on body scanners as a matter of urgency by the beginning of november 2008.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you may have heard that there is no longer a waste crisis in campania.
a few days ago in chiariano, which is one of the places where one of berlusconi's famous dumps was to be placed, 12,000 tons of asbestos and toxic waste were found, whose origin is not known.
we have asked the commission to intervene, we think it should do so because having 10,000 tonnes of asbestos and toxic waste out there in the open is a danger to everyone and we hope that commissioner dimas will do so and do so publicly.
i believe that a strong commitment is needed, a major programme for the union's energy infrastructure and energy saving.
we would like to stress, madam commissioner, that policies to support individual cmos must continue to be implemented wherever necessary, and in particular we believe that: (a) in the tobacco sector, decoupling of aid should provide for the possibility of maintaining partial coupled aid until 2013, in order to avoid total abandonment of production, since this would put entire supply chains at risk, creating unemployment and various economic and environmental problems in particularly disadvantaged areas.
- i am voting in favour of mr ehler's report on the promotion of the rapid demonstration of sustainable energy production from fossil fuels.
it is clear that the european union will only achieve the ambitious objectives of its climate policy if it can ensure that ccs technologies are widely used in power stations.
the strategic importance of coal should not prevent the climate-friendly use of this valuable resource.
we are talking about a common long-term investment strategy to achieve the objectives of energy efficiency and the green conversion of the economy, of reducing co2, with a strengthened role for the european investment bank, which must, however, be consistent in its decisions about who and what to finance.
the second is the ecological and energy dimension of the crisis, which calls for choices that are much clearer and more precise than the babble of the g20, but which it is very difficult for the very people who created the crisis to solve.
targeted and temporary measures to support european producers could be useful, in particular to further improve the technological and ecological performance of the european car fleet, whose regulatory environment, as we know, remains the most demanding in the world in terms of environmental legislation.
this has led european manufacturers to invest more heavily than their main us competitors in research and development to meet these environmental challenges.
we can only welcome the fact that our industry has thus gained a head start in the environmental field, but we must be vigilant and ensure that it does maintain it.
it is in no one's interest to take advantage of the crisis to create distortions in the car market, and this support must, of course, be firmly in line with the environmental objectives that the union has set itself in the framework of the energy-climate package.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
the older the fleet that drives on europe's roads, the greater the pollution load, and this is a very important point to bear in mind.
if we really want to reduce the pollution load, especially co2 - and this is our common priority - the key is to renew the fleet currently on europe's roads as quickly as possible.
the fleet is getting older and older, and the pollution is getting worse.
because we recognised the seriousness of the situation very early on, i organized a so-called car summit in brussels a few weeks ago as part of this process with the manufacturers, the member states where cars are produced, the trade unions, the environmental associations and all the parties involved.
i think tax incentives are a good instrument, but only if they are carbon-based tax incentives.
i say from a european point of view that we will do our utmost to help european manufacturers get through this difficult period and to continue to play their role as a real engine for sustainable growth and good jobs in europe.
but our intervention, i conclude, must be selective, must reconcile strategy with emergency, must support, both through credit facilities and demand support, a selective orientation towards more environmentally sustainable production.
the cap we are examining with the health check was designed to reduce agricultural production in favour of environmental protection, because that was the context in which it was created.
we hope that this will also help the issues and the actions taken when it comes to the energy and climate change package, because we will need money for investments.
this will also back the position of the eu in its leading role in the international fora for combating climate change.
with the european strategic energy technology (set) plan, we are strongly endorsed by parliament and the council.
the commission has initiated a process that will enhance the effectiveness of research & development spending in energy research.
it calls for the implementation of six new priority european industrial initiatives (industry-led programmes: wind, solar, ccs, grids, bioenergy and sustainable fission) and the establishment of the european energy research alliance (research-led programmes).
the fp7 energy community programme is the main instrument available in the short term to support the implementation of these actions.
in order to be able to monitor the contribution of fp7 to sustainable development, in general, and to green technology, in particular, the commission is setting in place a monitoring system that should be operational in the first semester of next year.
in more general terms it should be noted that, in addition to fp7 funds and activities, there is a wide range of policy initiatives and supporting programmes related to environmental technologies in the eu like the environmental technologies action plan, the competitiveness and innovation plan and more recently, the lead market initiative and action plan on sustainable production and consumption.
we discussed only yesterday in the committee on industry, research and energy this specific activity which is devoted to marine and maritime matters.
at present it is clear that the apiculture sector and its activities are irreplaceable and represent the only solution for maintaining the biodiversity target.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the review of recommendation 2001/331/ec laying down minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states, by miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0085/2008 - b6-0479/2008).
but beware: supporting incomes and raising consumer questions must be done with a real focus on environmental and social sustainability, avoiding uncritically reproducing models and systems that have proven to be weak.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new 20 x 20 x 20 formula used to summarise europe's objectives to tackle climate change expresses an ambitious commitment that would put europe in a position of absolute leadership in this global battle.
it is obvious that we all share the goal of protecting the environment: but to do that, we need to find tools that are more effective and more widely shared.
i simply believe that the instruments which make up the energy and climate package, first and foremost the revision of the ets directive, must also be carefully assessed in terms of the economic or bureaucratic burdens on our companies and public budgets, as well as in terms of the competitiveness of european production, with particular attention to small and medium-sized producers.
i would like to conclude by reiterating that it is more necessary than ever to avoid instrumental conflicts between the defenders of industry and the defenders of the environment.
however, such positions underestimate the future price of fossil fuels and ignore the huge benefits of the rapid spread of renewable energy: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures, such as security of supply, but above all the creation of new jobs, at a time of recession when thousands of workers are being thrown out of the productive processes.
increased energy efficiency and the widespread use of renewable sources are the recipe for overcoming the economic crisis.
the eu directive is about innovation and above all about tackling the disruption caused by climate change in time.
that is why public investment must not, once again, go to support traditional sectors but must concentrate on activities that bring innovation in the energy and environmental fields.
key factors for the growth of the renewable energy sector are the development of distribution networks and priority access to these networks.
this must also be the case if we are to secure the future of the renewable energy system.
renewable energy generation plants must therefore be operated using new technologies: that is why we need investment, research and technology development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a brief report a few days ago, the ipcc, the un panel of scientists fighting climate change, said that co2 emissions have started to accelerate more than expected.
parliament has worked with intelligence, competence and, i would say, even passion, and has already approved important texts in its committee on the environment.
to say that the economic crisis makes climate action impossible is nonsense.
on the contrary, it is precisely the fight against climate change that must be the reference point for an industrial conversion to a green economy, which must be the focal point of the intervention in this dramatic crisis.
the environment is not a problem for the economy but it is the key to the solution, together with a different social approach to a crisis that is born precisely from a sick economy that is bad for the environment and for work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues, starting with my president, mr martin schulz, who rightly highlighted the result achieved last monday with the agreement on the regulation imposing an obligation to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicles.
for two reasons: the first one was because i thought it was important to unlock the package, at least for a dossier, to show that it is really possible - it is difficult but it is possible - to reconcile different needs: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change, and the economic dimension of competitiveness and employment.
- madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for organising this debate, which was absolutely necessary for us, who are in poznań at the same time, at the same time, and at the european environment council, and next monday at the energy council, before the council of heads of state and government of 11 and 12. it was important that each and every one of them could express their views on one of the most difficult issues we have to deal with, since it is a question of fundamentally changing a number of elements of our economic and social policies, since energy is present in all this, with its moral dimension, its ethical dimension, its nature-related dimension, this respect for nature and, of course, climate change.
i would just like to say on a first point to those who have expressed doubts about climate change that in any case the need for the eventual detoxification of oil would in itself make the whole of this directive absolutely necessary.
whether it is for reasons of climate change or for reasons of changing the energy mix and their territorialisation, the package is globally relevant in both cases.
in the same way it would be irresponsible to support carbon leakage and i think we are coming up with solutions that are, at the end of the day, quite reasonable.
− madam president, today’s debate has mostly concentrated on the challenge of climate change.
it is true that it is a huge challenge, but the same is also true of the energy challenge that we are facing.
we have seen the recent volatility of prices, bringing challenges for the security of supply that is particularly important for the european union, where energy import dependence is growing.
this package also provides a basis for the solution to energy security, not only for the european union but also for other parts of the world.
if we make the technological change, it will provide for very different and secure energy sources that could be used across the world.
i would also like to thank the french presidency for working tirelessly with the european parliament and the commission to find solutions which are compatible with the environmental objectives we have set ourselves and with various other situations and problems facing member states or various sectors of european industry and business.
the council and the european parliament have shown their willingness to reach an agreement at first reading, and i think that by the next plenary session of the european parliament in two weeks' time the various outstanding cases will have been resolved in the right way and we will have an agreement which will achieve the environmental objectives, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union, which is necessary for the european union to contribute to the proper fight against climate change, but will also not allow other problems to be created, such as for example the relocation of companies to countries outside the european union where they would continue to emit carbon dioxide without restrictions.
protecting the environment and combating climate change are key priorities for the entire international community.
as i have always argued in recent years, the progress of research allows us to develop objective reasoning, even in relation to energy sources which are too often demonized.
in the light of current technological advances, in order to promote a process of geopolitical stabilization and to ensure greater international security, energy sources must be diversified, reducing dependence on supplies.
in this context, and after overcoming certain backward positions such as that of italy, i think it would be good to start a serious debate on nuclear energy production, with specific reference to third generation plants.
given the differences between the european economic system and that of the countries with which it has trade relations, including korea, and, specifically, the differences between production costs and internal consumer protection regulations in those countries, an agreement between competition authorities is a step towards protecting our companies and products from the dangers of today's globalised environment.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled on improving the environment for smes in europe - small business act.
the italian government minister luca zaia raised the issue at the last agriculture council: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is important that the new emissions regulation is voted on, that the commission says that the environment and innovation must be the guiding principles of the crisis response and that the same car is mentioned, but more is needed.
i agree with the honourable member that integrated action and a coherent approach in environmental, energy, maritime and transport policy strategies are needed to ensure that the various measures to promote tourism are in the same direction, to the benefit of the population living in coastal areas of the european economy in general.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs prets on media literacy in a digital environment.
we are in a particularly difficult economic environment where the economic and financial crisis that is affecting us seems destined to last throughout 2009. the european commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the definition of the 'climate-energy package' by overcoming the national problematic resources is a great success and a hope for the future, together with the union for the mediterranean, the main road to peace and development.
i think this is an important lesson that has come from the french presidency, which has also opened up a very interesting horizon for us, namely that we have understood that european integrationism is not an opportunity, and the balanced way in which the 'climate package' has been handled tells us that integration is not a value in itself, but for the vision that is capable of bringing us all back to common objectives.
the text on renewable energy produced by the trilogue contains a clear definition of the objectives and, above all, of their mandatory nature.
the mandatory 10% target for biofuels should be qualified by demands for efficiency in the processing processes by noting environmental and social sustainability criteria.
the package which this parliament is called upon to adopt, although watered down by the selfishness of the member states, is aimed at providing innovative responses to mitigate the impact of climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating myself on the fact that one of the keys to european policies on climate change and energy has recently been discussed with interesting arguments.
at a time of serious crisis for our economies, i can only appreciate the extent to which the french presidency has agreed, also in concert with president berlusconi - and i should like to thank him and emphasize this - to reach a conclusion on the question of contributing to the destruction and pollution of the planet, but also on reasonable terms for the survival of our industries.
the turmes report is, in fact, a positive contribution to the outlook, since renewable energy is clearly an inescapable frontier.
i agree with the general thrust of the report and the amendments, in particular 1, 2, 4, 5 and 7, which i shall be voting for, although i would like to see a different assessment of some of the instruments for the production of renewable energy, the impact of which has actually yet to be assessed and discussed.
the objectives proposed cannot, however, ignore not only environmental sustainability but also social sustainability and, if you will allow, all the factors involved in our production.
i think that the adoption of the climate and energy package and this directive is a very positive development.
i believe that europe can now claim to be at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the agreement reached on the climate and energy package is an ambitious agreement, because on the one hand it respects the objectives set in terms of environmental protection, but at the same time it indicates the ways in which these objectives can be combined with economic sustainability.
the clause, for example, which provides for a review in 2010, also in the light of the results of the copenhagen conference, agreed on a proposal from president berlusconi, is a qualifying point and the fact that it was unanimously adopted i believe is a good sign of sensitivity to the industrial system, just as it is important that the gradual introduction of the auction system in industrial sectors not exposed to international competition has been accepted, allowing and allowing instead sectors at risk of "carbon leakage" to benefit from the allocation of free allowances.
i must also stress again that the environmental targets for a 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions in the european union by 2020 will be met by the package and of course this decision will contribute to the success of our objective.
we can distinguish them into environmental objectives - and there was no change there; we are not going to be able to achieve the same results as we had planned - and on all other issues, including the auction or whether investments can be made in countries outside the european union.
there are also some changes which do not change either the basic architecture of the package or the environmental objectives.
member states will be asked to reduce their emissions over the period 2013-2020 according to a linear function with binding annual targets.
this will ensure that member states across all sectors of the economy contribute their fair share to achieving the european union's 20% emissions reduction target by 2020. one of the main problems in the discussions on the sharing of efforts between member states was the need to balance the achievement of the member states' objectives with the adoption of effective monitoring and compliance measures to ensure that these objectives are met.
the employment committee welcomes the objectives and measures that help to reduce climate change and mitigate its effects.
i shall confine myself to a social aspect: the wealth of the so-called first world, overproduction and excessive consumption - particularly transport, which consumes enormous amounts of fossil fuels - are the main causes of the increase in greenhouse gases which are harmful to the climate.
on the other hand, the most vulnerable and poorest are the ones most affected by the consequences of the impending climate catastrophe.
energy and food prices are hitting them much, much harder than the rich.
our demand: the burden of reducing greenhouse gas emissions must be shared in a socially acceptable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the house today president sarkozy has honestly reconstructed the nature of the compromise on the climate package.
if we see the scale of the environmental and economic crisis, we cannot help but be concerned about too much irrigation.
we shall therefore also stress in the votes our loyalty to the texts of this parliament and i would like to say that the committee on the environment has done a very good job in building up an advanced point and that on this matter, contrary to what mr goebbels has said, the rapporteur, mrs hassi, has been particularly clever and effective.
the agenda includes the report by chris davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the geological storage of carbon dioxide and amending council directives 85/337/eec and 96/61/ec and directives 2000/60/ec, 2001/80/ec, 2004/35/ec, 2006/12/ec and regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 (com (2008) 0018 - c6-0040/2008 - 2008/0015 (cod)) (a6-0414/2008).
the agenda includes the report by dorette corbey, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 98/70/ec as regards the specifications for petrol, diesel fuel and diesel oil and the introduction of a mechanism to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the use of road transport fuels and amending council directive 1999/32/ec as regards the specifications for fuel used by inland waterway vessels and repealing directive 93/12/eec (com (2007) 0018 - c6-0061/2007 - 2007/0019 cod)) (a6-049/2007).
the vote will take place on wednesday 17 december 2008.
the agenda includes the report by guido sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down emission performance standards for new passenger cars as part of the integrated community approach to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles (com (2007) 0856 - c6-0022/2008 - 2007/0297 (cod)) (a6-0419/2008).
it is a pity that we do not have the competence, we do not have the complete toolbox to be able to intervene with other instruments, with other levers, and i hope that under the coordination of the commission, all the member states will adopt intelligent policies to stimulate demand, for example by using forms of ecological taxation - as the french government has decided in this case - in such a way as to avoid distortions of competition.
this would be a very useful accompaniment to the replacement of the existing, obsolete vehicle fleet, allowing instead for large-scale emissions in the market of more efficient cars.
the report on the reduction of co2 emissions from light vehicles added an important piece: the fight against climate change.
we consider the method chosen by the commission to determine the reduction targets, based on the average vehicle weight, to be questionable and not justified from an environmental point of view.
for these reasons i welcome the dossier on the reduction of co2 emissions from cars as an important achievement and i will therefore support its approval.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too wanted to take the opportunity to thank mr sacconi for the work he has done, first of all because he has now gained experience which has led him to solve even the most difficult cases, but also certainly the french presidency, the council and the commission, which have allowed us, in all seriousness and with a strong commitment, to close all these dossiers on the climate and in particular the one relating to the car sector, which, as many have mentioned, also had concerns linked to the economic situation we are experiencing.
all these things have come out of the interinstitutional trilogue and i believe that they have enabled us to find solutions which, without affecting the general objectives, reduce the economic cost to manufacturers at this delicate time: the introduction of supercredits for cars with emissions of less than 50 grams of co2 per kilometre.
but i also want to emphasize that the approach that increases the weight of vehicles also increases the limit value for emissions, forces the smaller cars probably to a non-compliance with that general rule of "the more polluters the more they pay".
the average co2 emissions of cars sold in 2005 were 159 grams per kilometre.
in 2020, on the basis of this regulation, which introduces a binding target for 2020 of 95 grams per kilometre, we will have a 38% reduction in the average emissions of the fleet sold.
a month later, it was being hailed on their websites as a major environmental success for the union, putting it in the first place in the world in the control of chemicals, so to speak.
the agenda includes the council and commission conclusions on climate change and energy.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the council on the continuation and timely conclusion of the legislative process of the third energy package, by hannes swoboda, reino paasilinna, eluned morgan, atanas paparizov, giles chichester, alejo vidal-quadras, herbert reul, angelika niebler, gunnar hökmark, jerzy buzek, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament and the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats (o-0120/2008 - b6-0493/2008).
i would remind you that, despite the extraordinary work of the slovenian presidency, two major issues remained open and had not been dealt with by any of the institutions other than the commission: free and fair access to the market and investment by third countries in the union's energy sector.
− mr president, i would like to thank the french presidency again, which has also done a good job on our internal market energy package, because we really have had some difficult moments in the energy council.
as mr paparizov rightly said about consumers, we launched our citizens’ energy forum with consumer organisations in the autumn, which brings all the consumer organisations together to discuss the energy market package, so we need to broaden the scope of the agreement not only because of parliament and the council but also to achieve greater acceptance of the energy market in general by european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the text of which was coordinated by mr claude turmes.
this directive is a key opportunity for the future of the european union, as it represents the entry into the third industrial revolution and an opportunity to create millions of jobs, making environmental protection a reality and at the same time promoting economic growth and competitiveness.
as regards biofuels, i hope that the commission will be able to enforce sustainability criteria in europe and the rest of the world, by promoting international trade in cleaner and more competitive biofuels.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the review of the ets and the compromise reached between the objectives of combating climate change and strengthening the competitiveness of european industries and protecting jobs.
nevertheless, i am very satisfied with mrs doyle's proposal for flexibility in sectors at risk of carbon leakage, since we must avoid job losses due to the relocation of industries to regions less sensitive to the reduction of emissions, without, however, undermining the purpose of the directive.
the next item is the debate on: - the report by mr giusto catania, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2004-2008) [2007/2145 (ini) ] (a6-0479/2008); the oral question to the council on the european area of freedom, security and justice (easj): the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.