the document presented reduces the risk of monopolistic behaviour of large airports and will thus mitigate the environmental, infrastructural or transport problems of large airports and the metropolitan areas adjacent to them.
the commission has no powers under the treaty to substitute member states’ authorities in their planning activities and in their decisions, for example on whether or not to construct waste-disposal installations and where those installations will be.
we are concerned that the waste situation in campania is worsening, despite the actions taken by the italian authorities in 2007. it is essential that the italian authorities, besides taking immediate measures to tackle the current crisis, intensify their efforts for putting in place a structure enabling the campania region to ensure long-term sustainable waste management that is fully in line with european waste legislation.
i am convinced that, this time, crisis management must lead to a real turnaround in waste management policy in order to avoid further risks to human health and the environment.
therefore, any action to be taken for the future will have to lead to an effectively implemented strategy focusing not only on establishing a sufficient network of waste-treatment facilities.
it is of equal importance to provide the necessary structures for separate waste collection, recycling and the avoidance of waste, fully respecting the waste hierarchy within which the dumping of waste remains the least-desired option.
any new waste-management plan in that sense must not remain on paper, as we have seen in the past, but needs to be strictly implemented.
the present waste disaster could be taken as an opportunity to demonstrate italy’s capacity of turning the campania region into a best practice example of proper waste management, and other italian regions, such as the area of milan, have shown that this is possible.
the commission, as the guardian of the treaty, will continue the infringement procedure against italy – started in june 2007 – for a breach of community waste legislation.
apart from this, however, my services are ready to assist italy in any manner deemed necessary and helpful for finding and implementing a long-term sustainable solution to the current waste-management problem.
the different policy options are examined in terms of their likely social, economic and environmental impact.
the government programme provides for the expansion of the provision of non-formal adult education services in municipal educational institutions, efforts to ensure that the buildings of adult education institutions, the learning environment are modern and attractive, and the centres are equipped with modern teaching facilities.
firstly, we fully agree with the assessment that the black sea basin is a very important region from the point of view of the european union's energy policy and, above all, its external dimension, and secondly, the answer to your question as to whether it is possible to institutionalize relations with this area in the future is yes, it is possible.
perhaps in a similar way as was done with the western balkan countries, with the energy community treaty, perhaps in some other way, but in any case the slovenian presidency has identified the black sea basin, the black sea area, the black sea synergy as one of the important priorities within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy.
as you know, this pipeline will connect russia with germany and some other european states; as you know, there are some problems concerning the environment, among others.
the european union's policy in the south caucasus has traditionally focused on the energy and transport sectors in economic terms.
i would like to emphasise more the importance of an effective trade policy in the european union's policy in this region, because energy projects do not always bring benefits to the country, helping to restructure the economy faster, develop business and reduce poverty.
we are on the threshold of the third industrial revolution, which will result in a significant reduction in our dependence on fossil fuels and a transition to a low-carbon economy.
these four areas express, first, europe's concern for the environment, second, europe's concern for man and his social position, third, the efforts to make europe more entrepreneurial and, fourth, the efforts to make europe more innovative and creative, on which everything else is based.
and finally, we europeans care about nature, we care about the environment.
europe must take the lead in what some call the third industrial revolution, the core of which is the shift towards a low-carbon economy.
political agreement on the energy-climate package is needed by the end of this year.
ladies and gentlemen, we need a decisive start to the new cycle of the lisbon strategy to make europe a more dynamic, creative, knowledge-based, enterprising society that cares, cares for people and cares for the environment.
we also need to consider as soon as possible the strategic framework for european development beyond 2010 and the possible convergence of the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy.
it is about our response to the economic, social and environmental challenges of our time.
it is also the imperative of the hour to push forward vigorously with the integration of energy and climate objectives into our growth and employment policies.
we are committed to demonstrating that environmental challenges can be turned into economic opportunities and social progress.
we need a strong european industry to take the lead, because we firmly believe that european leadership in energy efficiency, new technologies and the conservation of resources is not only good for the environment but also for jobs.
a responsible climate policy does not rely on the deindustrialisation of europe, but on the capacity of the industrial base of europe, on industries that produce in an environmentally friendly way in europe and export environmental protection.
we therefore propose the new emphases i have described, for example in the social and environmental dimensions, which have also been incorporated in the guidelines.
for us, this policy is at the top of our priority list, because it is about more jobs, more prosperity and more protection of the environment.
reforms to improve the sustainability of social protection systems and public accounts have been introduced in many european countries and there has undoubtedly been increased awareness of the need for us to commit to the environment in our growth model.
however, of course, we must take into account the changes in the environment - major changes in the energy and environmental environment, the need to make the fight against climate change our first priority, the new challenges, the experience and, of course, the economic situation, the economic moment we are experiencing in recent months.
an environment that leads to an increase in uncertainty, to tensions in the financial markets, and that requires us in this more volatile, more uncertain, more difficult situation to accelerate the pace of reforms, to accelerate the degree of implementation, the speed of implementation of the lisbon strategy.
we agree that this implementation should be carried out - as the integrated guidelines themselves indicate - in a framework of macroeconomic stability, in a framework that reinforces the sustainability of our public accounts, our welfare and social protection systems, environmental sustainability, and in a framework of trust and commitment of economic actors.
on the business environment, some argue for the internal market, for non-protectionism, or that it is a functioning market that gives europe a competitive edge.
i would not agree that the lisbon strategy is neoliberal, on the contrary, europe's concern for people and the environment is actually two of the four essential pillars of the lisbon strategy.
there was some discussion about flexicurity, mr goebbels and mrs vălean, but the fact is that if we do not introduce it, employers will, as someone has also pointed out, flee to other forms of employment which are very flexible but much less pleasant for the worker, because the economic environment is not even set up to promote the security that the flexible security system brings.
there's been a lot of talk about the environment.
the challenge will be how to get the rest of the world to join our efforts to transition to a low-carbon economy, but we can certainly do that by setting an example.
that means a high standard of living for all our citizens, a high level of social security for all our citizens, a high standard of living for the environment throughout europe and the realisation of our global responsibilities.
there are more jobs, there is more productivity, there are healthier tax positions, there are more sustainable social protection systems and there are many actions under way.
the second key issue is climate change.
yet, to allow a person to express himself, he needs a favorable environment.
we are talking about creating a social environment in europe where people can work, find their place and express themselves.
firstly, central asia has an obvious growing importance for the european union and the world as a whole, no doubt owing to its rich energy resources.
despite a rocky start, with deep divisions over the lebanon crisis and a negotiating environment which continues to be difficult for the european union, important results have been achieved.
i want to stress the importance of a common energy policy.
since 2006, we have been talking about the need for a common energy policy for the european union and the external dimension of the common energy external policy has been proposed to parliament.
it is also important for us in the future, when it comes to new energy sources, the arctic, which is already being discussed, and the european union should not be the last to exploit resources and to seek new sources, as it always is.
we have estimated in our updated forecasts for february the impact of the financial turbulence and the more difficult international economic environment on european economies and we have estimated that there will be somewhat less growth, five tenths less growth in the european union, four tenths less growth in the euro area, compared to the forecasts we had presented in november 2007. and also half a point more inflation as a result basically of the shock of the increase in the prices of oil, of raw materials and, very particularly, of food raw materials.
if some initiatives are not being implemented properly, it is simply because their economic sustainability in a global world has not been assessed.
now we are talking again about climate change, energy strategy, but all these measures, as already mentioned, need to be coordinated and their economic consequences assessed.
only then will they be sustainable.
we started discussing the common energy policy and energy security in 2006 after the gas crisis in ukraine and russia, which had repercussions in europe.
unfortunately, we do not yet have a common energy policy or an external energy policy.
i hope that the council will give serious consideration to the issue of eu energy security, including lithuania's energy security, in connection with the planned closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant in 2009. the closure of the nuclear power plant makes lithuania's energy sector completely dependent on the only source of gas imported from russia.
we are also all aware of russia's tendency to use energy for political purposes.
i think that the rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, has done a very good job in completing the commission's timely green paper on climate change.
some countries, especially scandinavian countries, have already prepared a long-term strategy for how they will respond to climate change by protecting coastal zones, by fighting floods, by building houses of special design, without waiting for calls from brussels.
the recent eu summit declared that climate change issues must be at the forefront of the eu's preventive security policy.
this is relevant for the world's poorest countries, which have contributed the least to climate change.
the eu must continue to set an example for other continents and countries in how to tackle climate change while adapting to new conditions, and how to change the behaviour and habits of citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, china's policies in africa pose a serious threat to the sustainable development of african countries.
china is illegally importing timber and ivory from africa, damaging africa's environment.
the energy interests of the big countries have now so overshadowed all the eu's values that the small countries will seem to remain energy islands forever.
the eu does not see that gazprom's pipelines have already been installed in virtually all eu countries and will soon show who is the master of energy in europe.
this approach also avoids the need to define certain terms, such as water or waste, in the directive.
the honourable member asks whether the sustainability scheme proposed by the commission in its proposal for the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, adopted by the commission this january, will solve the problem created by the trading practice referred to in the question.
the sustainability scheme provided for by the renewable energy directive is about ensuring the sustainability of biofuels.
the sustainability scheme would therefore not be able to address trading practices such as the one referred to in the question from the honourable member.
− the method of the calculation of greenhouse gas emission from biofuels compared to fossil fuel emission contained in the renewable energy directive follows what we call the life cycle approach, which also takes into account the level of emission produced during transport of biofuels both within and outside the european union.
in this respect let me reiterate once more that reducing greenhouse gas emission from transport is one of the guiding objectives of the biofuel policy.
we have had higher energy costs.
that development mainly resulted from a combination of structural drivers: a steady rise in global food demand, the emergence of the biofuel market – only for a very small part – and more short-term factors such as adverse climate conditions, which provoked a decrease in the output volume of cereals in most of the eu member states in 2007 and the restrictive export policy of some key world market suppliers and in general an increasing engagement of investment funds in agricultural commodity markets.
thus some other components of the sale price, and i am thinking of energy and labour margins, have also influenced recent increases in food prices in the european union.
i will mention a few: regulation, sustainable development.
i therefore call on the european commission and the member states to simplify substantially the regulatory environment for small and medium-sized enterprises.
sustainable development is a horizontal requirement for all eu policies.
we must work towards the european union's swift transition to a low-carbon and resource-efficient industry, thereby reducing environmental pollution, exports of pollutants to third countries and the impact of climate change.
sustainable development should be based on new technologies, which means increasing research funding, which we are lagging behind the us and japan, and reducing patent costs, thereby increasing the diffusion of innovation.
the response of the commission and the council was timely – given the threat of climate change – calling this a central issue.
for small eu countries bordering on the eu's external borders, water pollution from neighbouring eu countries is a particularly sensitive issue.
the union does not want to and cannot become an iron curtain, either in the environment or elsewhere, and reducing pollution is therefore important both within the eu and in the neighbourhood.
amendment no 26 emphasises that the commission is to present a report on the situation regarding pollution from third countries no later than one year after the entry into force of this directive.
the commission should further promote the adoption and implementation of enhanced environmental commitments in its negotiations with neighbouring countries.
this document is a step towards the creation of a single and competitive energy market in the european union.
the revised document seems to me to be largely in line with the strategic energy policy aspirations of many member states, namely to create an efficient and integrated internal market in the european union.
first, the issue of security of energy supply remains important in the context of the directive.
electricity interconnections between declining energy islands such as lithuania and other baltic states and other regions require both political will and a common european union policy based on common financing.
thirdly, the establishment of a european agency will facilitate cooperation between national regulators and contribute to the consolidation of the internal energy market.
step by step we will create both a single market and a common energy policy, guaranteeing security of supply and the best price for all consumers.
the third principle which has not been disclosed and which, in my view, has remained very vague and raises many questions is the principle of isolation from third-party investment in transmission networks in europe, which may in principle... have failed to provide clear answers as to how the commission sees the future, what political, financial, economic risks may arise, how the application of this principle may affect the future of both energy and the policy of the european union as a whole.
i would like to emphasize one more point: market impulses and the principle of separation of activities are not sufficient to change the nature of natural monopolies in the energy market, because there are still isolated markets, regional markets, and this requires broad political agreements alongside this document ... (the president interrupted the member)
i would like to congratulate the commission for initiating the package of documents on the realisation of the internal energy market in the eu and the rapporteur, mrs morgan, for her report which gives a qualified assessment of the situation on the electricity market and proposes solutions.
i am glad that the existence of the energy islands has been brought to the attention of the public.
proposed implementation of ownership as the only way to ensure the independence of the transmission system operator, prohibition of third parties from controlling transmission systems or the transmission system operator, priority of consumer interests and protection are measures that will help to ensure the eu's energy security and the well-being of citizens.
on behalf of the uen group the european union's policy on the taxation of energy products was adopted in 1993. at that time, oil was $16 a barrel.
today, with oil prices at $140, the question arises as to whether such a european union policy of taxing energy products is justified.
do the commission and the council not think that the time has come to review the european union's policy on the taxation of energy products, in particular excise duties, vat and import duties?
excise duty was introduced on fuel, mineral fuel, in 1992 all energy was taxed in 2004. does this mean that taxes have no effect?
and another moment -- i haven't heard of a new resource (or renewable resource) like hydrogen.
if parliament votes against a truly independent environmental impact assessment and dislikes the prevention of real dangers because big money says bluntly ‘there is no risk of a disaster’ after such positions are proposed as a matter of urgency by one national team, the eu itself as a european idea risks being dumped to a poisoned bottom.
(applause)
eu countries continue to implement projects with potentially catastrophic environmental consequences when it comes to the impact of human activities on the environment.
independent environmental impact studies are required.
i call on europe to speak with one voice, to look for alternatives to the gas pipeline and to see nuclear energy as a green and secure energy source for the future of the eu.
the eu's environmental policy is based on the principle of sustainable development.
you promised that even if it did not ratify this document, it would abide by its provisions, which is unconvincing, because we know very well the experience with the energy charter.
we are well aware of the need for an independent environmental impact assessment and the fact that some have named a particular company as the only one who can do this is completely unacceptable.
as we know, more than six months ago several tens of thousands of citizens of the european union countries petitioned our parliament about the environmental impact of the nord stream gas pipeline, and now, more than six months later, they have received the european parliament's reply today, its position on this important issue.
dependence on a single supplier, which is inclined to use energy for political purposes, is a threat to both the energy and political security of the eu as a whole.
the elimination of energy islands, by creating links between countries and regions, must be a top priority of eu energy policy, backed by community finance and political will.
the proposals for the gas market in the third energy package can only be implemented in time with eu support and are the instrument that will make the eu more secure.
the third path is a five-year period during which the eu and the member states must find the political will and finance to phase out the eu's energy islands from the gas market.
the way to counteract this dictate is to act in solidarity and to create a common european system and to support and develop projects in the field of alternative energy, including nuclear energy, which requires political will and common finances.
the rapid adoption of this law will allow the aviation industry to adapt to the improved regulatory environment, with the number of relevant regulations reduced from three to one.
with the green paper the commission has launched the process for action at european level in the field of urban mobility and transport and our green paper puts urban mobility at the heart of european discussions on how to achieve sustainable mobility for today's society and for future generations.
the main reasons for our debate are concerns about climate change, congestion, the health consequences, in particular of air pollution, the security of energy supplies and road safety.
the many amendments tabled by the members of the committee on transport during the debate on the draft report and the important contributions made by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on regional development demonstrate the great interest with which the european parliament is following the question of urban mobility, a subject which affects the vast majority of the citizens of the european union.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
bangladesh is the country most at risk from climate change.
the commission proposal on the type-approval of hydrogen-powered vehicles is of great importance in addressing the challenges of the search for alternative transport fuels, environmental protection and climate change, and human health.
secondly, hydrogen is only a carrier of energy, not an energy source, and it is therefore important that hydrogen fuel is produced in a sustainable and environmentally friendly way.
many eu countries are dependent on russian energy imports, fear gas pipeline jams and this allows russia to start dictating conditions to the eu as a whole in a truly disproportionate way.
the port sector is of crucial importance to the european union from economic, commercial, social, environmental and strategic points of view.
hedge funds, in the current environment, are not sustainable any more, and i do think that we just need the same rules for all investment funds rather than specific rules for hedge funds.
this is a waste of community taxpayers' money, which could and should be used in a targeted way to create added value for people.
i want to draw attention to energy policy.
three years ago we decided to develop a common energy policy.
i do not see any mention of any action on energy this time.
the legislation adopted does not in itself create or implement an energy policy, a common energy policy.
so there is no long-term common energy perspective, and we could have the same situation as the financial crisis.
we'll be surprised if something happens to the energy, then we'll take action.
i voted in favour of the amendments to the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) which propose to extend the functions of the existing european telecommunications regulators authority (etri) and to give the european commission additional powers.
it will also help to avoid the waste of taxpayers' money by creating yet another bureaucratic machine.
i regret that the commission will not be entrusted with the task of verifying what has been done in the member states in the field of the construction of transeuropean energy networks, and that it may take some time to complete the single energy market and to ensure energy security throughout the community.
this is a vital issue for lithuania, latvia and estonia, and the institutions of the european union, and in particular the commission, must take concrete action to end as soon as possible the energy isolation of these member states and their dependence on russia, the sole supplier of gas and oil.
to solve energy problems, we need a common energy policy with both domestic and foreign policy aspects.
the third energy package is the foundation for this.
we need to support this financially and actually to build connections, both in gas and electricity, and that will ensure our energy security.
the commission must have the power to negotiate energy prices.
we need to look at the big picture: who are our energy suppliers?
do we see the arctic as a potential energy source?
problems in the international financial market remain acute – you have already discussed these issues today – driven partly by developments in the financial sector itself and partly by the implications of the deteriorating economic environment.
− russia is also part of the international atomic energy agency, and russian nuclear technology corresponds to international standards.
it is perhaps hard to imagine a parallel between obesity and climate change but, indeed, such dependency exists.
today, other aspects of climate change, of melting ice, are emerging: environmental protection, energy sources, human health.
unfortunately, however, economic interests, and particularly energy interests, are most pronounced: the opening up of new shipping routes for trade and passenger transport and energy resources.
i support the idea of the declaration to develop an eu policy for the arctic region covering both economic and environmental aspects and the adaptation of local populations to climate change.
as regards energy, the arctic issue should be part of the eu's overall energy policy, but we should finally move from talk to action.
we will not be able to achieve the objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy if we continue to waste a large part of our single most precious resource: human capital.
− developing countries have contributed the least to climate change, but will suffer the most from its effects and have the least capacity to deal with them.
the industrial countries have historical responsibility for climate change and a moral obligation to contribute to the efforts of developing countries to adapt to the effects of climate change.
the 2007 review of the eu action plan on climate change and development shows that climate change is not being integrated sufficiently into eu development policy and is taking place at a very slow pace.
i support the commission's initiative to establish a global climate change alliance.
however, the €60 million for the global climate change alliance is far from sufficient, and it is important that the commission sets out long-term funding and allocates at least €2 billion annually until 2010 and €5 billion by 2020. at present, developing countries are severely underfunded in terms of adaptation to climate change.
mr president, i believe the colleagues from the ppe-de group will be standing up to speak shortly, but, before they do, i would ask them to consider whether it would harm their principles to support my oral amendment by adding two words which highlight the isolation of the baltic region in the energy sector and its 100% dependence on russia.
we would like to highlight and to welcome the commission’s, and specifically the council’s, initiative to help put an end to the baltic region’s isolation in the energy sector.
− the resolution on the european council held on 15-16 october 2008 addresses a number of important issues, such as the impact of the global financial crisis on the economic exit strategy from the financial crisis, the improvement of regulations to strengthen the eu regulatory and supervisory framework, energy and climate change and energy security issues.
however, i believe that we failed to comprehensively address energy security issues in the light of the latest commitments made by the commission and the conclusions of the french presidency.
the european commission has undertaken to elaborate the baltic interconnection plan and to present it to the eu energy ministers in december.
i believe that the european parliament has failed to demonstrate solidarity with the baltic states, which are already the most isolated energy islands in the community and are at the mercy of russia in terms of gas.
the aim is to create a safe online environment and to promote crime prevention measures.
if the euro area members do not meet the price stability criterion, what kind of inflation sustainability can we talk about?
the concept of sustainability of inflation was introduced in 2006 with the start of the euro area's expansion.
− the commission communication 'supporting demonstration projects for sustainable production of electricity from fossil fuels' is a crucial step in the further discussion on policy and financial instruments.
it is now clear that the european union will only be able to achieve its ambitious climate policy goals beyond 2020 if it can ensure the widespread use of co2 capture and storage technologies in power plants.
economic operators, institutions, policy makers, markets and citizens rely heavily on statistics to describe economic, social, ecological, cultural and other developments as well as possible.
i think it is also worth mentioning, among the principles which have guided the commission's proposal and which are reflected in mr schwab's report, the objective that the best regulatory environment proposed for european statistics responds to the need to minimise the response burden on businesses and contribute to the more general objective of reducing administrative burdens at european level.
− the european action plan on environment and health 2004-2010 recognises the need to improve the quality, comparability and accessibility of health status data on environmental diseases and disorders through the community statistical programme.
statistics will have to include the information necessary for community action in the field of public health to support national strategies for the development of high-quality, accessible and sustainable health care.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
i mean the energy problems.
the commission proposal allows lithuania to increase its greenhouse gas emissions somewhat compared to 2005 but does not take into account the consequences of the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant, which will result in almost double the amount of greenhouse gases emitted by lithuanian power plants.
increased use of fossil fuels will increase emissions by 5 million tonnes per year.
therefore, lithuania expects to receive a rebate of approximately this amount under the rules of the emissions trading scheme for annual unsold allowances until the new power plant is built.
the climate change package is extremely important and sensitive.
legislation on the regulation of sustainable coastal tourism is therefore necessary.
the compromise now gives a sense of how much individual eu countries will have to contribute to the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by one fifth in specific areas.
so let's remember that the cheapest and cleanest energy is the energy saved.
the directives on sustainable energy sources, fuel quality and the environmentally friendly use of cars need to be implemented as precisely and qualitatively as possible.
it is also essential, especially for the 21st century eu member states, to increase the union's funding for energy efficiency improvements in multi-apartment buildings.
the establishment of a harmonised legal framework for the use of credit claims as collateral in cross-border transactions will further enhance market liquidity, so badly needed in the present environment.
energy security and the economy, but above all climate change, require a fundamental change in our energy and transport systems.
for many years, climate change was seen as primarily an environmental issue.
however, it is now widely recognised that climate change affects all sectors of society and that if we do not act quickly, it could have devastating consequences for society.
but these results should not obscure the growing difficulty for the european union to play its role as a bridge builder in a un environment increasingly polarized by a logic of blocs.
we all attended an exciting ceremony a few hours ago, which hu jia himself was unable to attend, but his work and efforts to defend the rights of people with aids and fight for the environment in china will be heard by people all over the world today.
a few weeks ago, i was in china and i saw how right hu jia is in fighting for the environment.
the enormous pollution makes it scary to see the sun in the sky.