how can i, as an automotive manager, know where i want to go if european policy does not set a framework for me to be energy efficient in 2020?
it is not right that we should position europe as the market with the most demanding legislation in the automobile sector, and thus create a lead market for efficient cars, also in the light of the climate and oil problems.
armenia, azerbaijan and georgia, all three of which emerged from the breakup of the ussr, are still suffering the legacy of those times, especially with the unresolved conflicts in nagorno-karabakh, abkhazia and ossetia, which have inflamed the climate between them and their neighbours and triggered a deadly arms race.
in summary, we call on the three countries to guarantee freedom of expression, assembly and the media, as well as balanced and honest access to the media by the opposition, and we call on them to step up the fight against corruption and to create a favourable investment climate.
finally, as regards cooperation in the fields of energy and transport, while it is clear that the new initiatives increase the possibilities for opening up, it is becoming increasingly evident that the isolation of armenia is only getting worse.
you have spoken about energy, about transport, about climate change, as i have myself.
i shall now move on to energy.
of course, it is a very important region for energy, and we need coordinated decisions by many – by state and by private players – for long-distance pipelines.
this is, of course, a much more difficult area, because every one is very different, but we are at least trying with our projects to help and to get the right environment in order to facilitate settlements.
madam president, this parliament has a vision of 21 different renewable energy technologies for the 21st century.
this is millions of jobs for europe; this is technology leadership; this is co2 reduction, less dependency on gas and oil imports, more competition in an energy market which is dominated by the happy few and, therefore, i thank mr piebalgs for not having given in to the electricity lobby by killing the guaranteed price systems, because it is only guaranteed price systems that will allow small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in this market.
we, as greens, are in favour of protecting european industry against environmental dumping, but, mr barroso, there is a contradiction in what you have announced.
if the european energy-intensive industry gets the allowances completely for free, how can you justify the fact that the chinese steel company will have to pay for imports?
we are in the middle of sustainable energy week and, however positive this event is, it should not divert attention from the fact that what governments, in particular, have achieved over the last two or three years on energy efficiency is extremely disappointing.
not implementing legislation, sending energy efficiency action plans which are not action plans but just a compilation of some sort – that is ridiculous!
you come to brussels in march one year after the historic summit where you prime ministers have given a lot of speeches about the priority of priorities being energy efficiency, and then you come one year later and you have achieved almost nothing as governments!
13% of employees work on the basis of unstable contracts and without sustainable social protection.
the fight against climate change will reinforce this trend towards the impoverishment of many europeans.
in britain, the government is fighting energy poverty.
nevertheless, the commission explains to us that the union has not sufficiently liberalised its energy market, as if, in a world where 90% of energy resources depend on sovereign states, consumers could freely choose their suppliers.
then we have to create the environment that motivates them.
would that not bring us many advantages in terms of passenger safety, environmental protection and aviation as a whole?
i think it is extremely important that an analysis of the economic, social and environmental impact of the increase in milk quotas be called for in the short term, as well as a report on consumer behaviour, with a specific request to take account of the specific circumstances of milk production in disadvantaged regions, such as luxembourg, with difficult production conditions.
it is a storable form of energy, so is complementary to other intermittent sources of renewables.
i think we have a real problem in europe concerning authorisation, especially for energy production which is not dangerous, and biogas is not dangerous.
- madam president, last year was a year of crucial decisions on climate change and energy policy.
the european union is determined, it is committed to tackling climate change and to responding to the challenge of ensuring secure, sustainable and competitive energy.
the european council of march 2007, one year ago, set precise and binding targets with an ambitious approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing renewable energy in our energy consumption.
all these aspirations require a constant and high-quality, detailed monitoring of the evolution of our energy situation, since energy consumption is responsible for more than 80% of our greenhouse gas emissions.
the member states must also monitor their energy dependence closely, particularly with regard to natural gas and oil.
the proposal for a regulation on energy statistics is part of the energy package adopted by the commission last year.
the collection of statistical data on energy has traditionally been based on voluntary agreements with member states and has been for many years.
this proposal for a regulation is in response to a request from the european parliament to the commission to undertake a legal commitment to provide regular and timely european union-wide energy data to european citizens.
moreover, energy statistics are a very dynamic field and the proposal for a regulation reflects the european parliament's wish that statistics on energy efficiency and renewable energy continue to evolve.
so let me conclude this presentation by thanking the people involved in this process and, in particular, the rapporteur of the european parliament for his support in the development of this legal basis which will make it possible to have transparent energy data in the european union in the future.
- madam president, energy is back on the political agenda.
today it is $105 and so, more than ever, to face the energy challenge - be it climate change, the oil shortage, all our geopolitical dependence which is the basis of this situation, but also our economic vulnerability to the volatility of oil prices, not to mention gas prices - i believe that it is more urgent than ever to put in place a european energy policy.
but to develop a good european energy policy, we need a good database.
it's a success because the statistics that, until now, were mostly very detailed fossil energy statistics on coal, on oil, on gas, we're going to adapt them to the 21st century.
and the energy of the 21st century will be directed towards renewable energy.
by 2020, renewables will be the largest source of energy in europe, with 20%.
so we have to adapt these statistics, and we're going to adapt them to the demand for energy.
europe imports 98% of its uranium, and in the statistics, in the statistical directories of europe, nuclear energy appears as a native energy, because the statistics have not been adapted.
today they will be put in a more favourable position because the finance ministers will now be obliged to take energy statistics much more seriously.
with regard to peat – and unfortunately ms korhola has already left – it is very clear from our definition that peat is classified under fossil energy.
we have taken up the ipcc definition of peat, which makes it very clear that peat is not a renewable.
our oil price in europe is defined by the us department of energy’s weekly bulletin.
the commission has set up an energy market observatory in dg tren, so it is important that eurostat and this new observatory work closely together.
finally, i would like to wish the eurostat civil service and to civil servants in the member states considerable energy and courage, as they will now have to meet often in comitology and to transform this into real statistics.
europe had returned to growth; unemployment was falling; employment was rising; government deficits were falling; the european council agreed on visionary objectives for the fight against climate change; the european union is a major player in the world economy.
the ecb is urging employees to exercise restraint, while their purchasing power is continually being squeezed by rising energy and food prices.
the roadmap to the 2009 copenhagen climate summit is very thin.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market.
for industries such as steel and aluminium and many other energy-intensive industries operating in a global market, the additional cost will not be reflected in prices but will affect the only remaining adjustment variable, employment.
such an option would quickly lead to relocations to countries where social and climate rules are less strict than in europe.
the global climate gain would obviously be zero, while the social cost for europe would become unbearable.
the achievement of the biofuel target would, in itself, do more harm than good to the environment and would certainly harm consumers.
the next summit will have to adjust these decisions to the new global economic realities and define an environmental policy that is no longer under the illusion that the european union can carry the burden of combating climate change alone.
but i warn against playing the social question against the ecological question, as the social democrats and others in this parliament are now trying again.
it is not possible that the industries which pollute the most are now exempt from the pollution tax - and the auctioning of co2 residues is nothing else.
secondly, these funds must be earmarked so that, as in denmark in the early 1990s, money from a carbon tax on industry is reinvested in the modernisation of the steel industry and other energy-intensive businesses in europe.
thirdly - and i think we must work with the french presidency on this - we need, of course, a punitive tax on environmental dumping outside the internal market on other continents.
but it is a pity that every steelworks outside europe has lower environmental and energy standards than the steelworks that are in europe today.
− to prevent high-quality food from becoming scarce and very expensive in europe, many people today need to understand that we need to maintain a competitive, sustainable, multifunctional and comprehensive agriculture in the eu, which is also internationally competitive.
the problem here is to find a compromise with the policies on the problems we know about oil resources and climate change, as well as the balance between countries and regions.
i just wanted to inform you that this tuesday there was a debate in the chamber of deputies in luxembourg on climate change.
on the contrary: economic rationale speaks against the extra millions of kilometres and also the extra tons of co2 and other greenhouse gases which are the result of fuel tourism.
i have to take into consideration – and we all have to take into consideration – the growing threat of what climate change and global warming mean for mankind.
a positive opinion from parliament will be an important signal of the increasing awareness of the growing negative impact on the environment of transport, which we have to address through fuel taxation.
europe today has a dream, or rather a vision: the vision of developing the energy of the future, not only in europe but beyond europe, the vision that renewable energy sources will play a major role in the middle of this century, helping to avoid conflicts over the last oil and gas resources, limiting climate change and ensuring that billions of people in the world have access to energy that they cannot have today.
i think that the commission - represented today by its environmental conscience, mr dimas - can be proud of this geeref, this global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund.
we expect that in four or five years this fund will be worth 500 million euros, making it the largest fund for investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency in the world.
financial analysts who study in detail which renewable energy and energy efficiency projects are invested in have found that it is difficult to find risk capital for investments below eur 10 million and the fund being set up is specifically targeted at these medium-sized projects in the range of eur 10 million and below.
not only would the environmental record be poor, but it would also be a problem for the image of the fund if it were to be discredited by such investments.
the second thing that was important to us as parliamentarians - and i think that came very strongly from the development policy angle - is that we want this fund to make a significant contribution to reducing energy poverty.
− mr president, of course geothermal energy is covered.
we are very much interested in geothermal energy, as well as in other renewable sources of energy.
concerning poland and the allocation of allowances: for the first trading period, they had plenty, far more than were necessary for the needs of energy and industry, and this over-allocation caused the problem with the allowances price.
for the third trading period there is a new system, which will be based on what industry or the energy plants require to cover their needs, involving auctioning to the extent that we shall agree.
concerning deforestation, of course it is a great issue and linked both to biodiversity and climate change – equally important.
tackling deforestation contributes both to halting of the loss of biodiversity and fighting climate change, so it is very important.
as you mentioned today, some 1.6 billion people in the poorer countries of the world still have no regular access to reliable energy services.
i believe that with the geeref we have an opportunity to contribute to access to clean and affordable energy, a necessary prerequisite for reducing global poverty and promoting sustainable development.
thank you very much for your support for what i call the fan community of a renewable and better world.
i am grateful to the rapporteur, mr rübig, and also to the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for the good cooperation and the improvements they are proposing to the commission proposal.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i noticed that none of the political interlocutors we had had any concern about climate change, that they were talking about increasing the area for soya cultivation and deforestation to gain more arable land, and that even our delegation had not properly discussed the subject.
should we not coordinate our discourse everywhere, knowing that climate change policy is a policy of redistribution of resources?
we need to go from a unidimensional agrofuel policy to a holistic policy for energy from biomass, and concentrate biomass where it is most efficient, which is in electricity and heat production.
i am pleased to read in the explanatory statement of the report that china's rush into africa is a plunder of africa's natural resources which undermines sustainable development.
this commitment is made without preconditions, either for human rights or for social and environmental conditions.
this situation should be a challenge to europe, which must try to find a strategic partnership with both africa and china to ensure the sustainable development of the african continent.
i support the report by mr florenz on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change as it analyses the impacts and effects of climate change, provided that they are supported by scientific evidence.
the cost of climate change could reach between 5 and 20% of gdp by 2050 unless ambitious action is taken.
although all member states have made considerable progress so far, we will have to be more ambitious in reducing emissions.
i voted in favour of the report on a new animal health strategy for the eu because i am clearly in favour of sustainable agriculture and can only support the policy initiatives and practices to promote it.
when europe needs energy, it turns to africa for the benefit of sunshine and sand.
for many reasons, however, such as food security, the supply of quality products, the environment and the preservation of our beautiful mountain and vineyard landscapes, positive action is needed to encourage young people to work in agriculture, to take over the family farm.
i voted in favour of mr veraldi's report because i can only support initiatives to ensure the future of sustainable, competitive and productive agriculture in the eu.
to enable young farmers to meet the many challenges and expectations of producing quality food, safeguarding food security, protecting the environment, safeguarding biodiversity and maintaining the landscape, it is essential to review the amount of the set-up premium, which has remained unchanged for years.
the european parliament also expressed its concern about the sustainability of the inflation rate in slovakia over the long and medium term, as identified in the ecb's latest convergence report.
it would therefore be unjustified to punish slovakia for its difficulties in meeting criteria that euro area members will not be able to meet in 2009.
madam president, this market is not a market, but a hold-up: one costing eu consumers something like eur 70 billion a year in undue windfall profits going to 10 or 12 big energy oligopolies in europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i voted against the morgan report and the energy package because i think we are going the wrong way.
the energy market is a global market.
not by subsidizing energy directly, but by helping them have money to pay for it and, most importantly, by linking it to energy efficiency.
this economic model has a systemic problem because it doesn't integrate resources and environmental pollution.
so, commissioner, we need to be more ambitious on energy efficiency and my question to you is this: should the council not instruct the commission to present a whole package of measures in september for a major european energy efficiency investment initiative?
in the current climate of soaring energy prices, i believe it is essential to enable member states to counteract excessive increases in energy prices by lowering indirect taxes.
i would also like to stress that member states wishing to reduce their vat rates on the supply of energy are free to do so within the framework of the existing directives, particularly as regards minimum rates.
while there is some reason to consider the climate impact of the two most important sectors for international trade, the european union cannot unilaterally change a multilateral agreement, while for example asking the united states to ratify kyoto.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am not a great expert on monetary matters, but i am trying to understand what is behind the energy and food crisis that is raging at the moment, and my analysis is that we are entering another era.
mr trichet, you and i both have salaries high enough to be unaffected by energy and food prices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten nations account for 60% of the world's carbon dioxide emissions.
the 27 member states of the european union account for only 14% of global emissions.
the united states, 17%; brazil, russia, india and china have cumulative emissions of over a third of the world's carbon dioxide emissions.
all of this shows that european initiatives to combat climate change will remain futile if there are no comparable efforts from the us, china and other industrialised nations.
until such an agreement is reached, europe must fight against carbon leakage.
this idea, dear mr sarkozy, will be clearly rejected by parliament tomorrow and we are rather on the side of mr borloo, who supports the idea of encouraging the bonus-malus and giving citizens access to low-energy services and appliances.
two final remarks: the allocation fund: we will only deal with this issue if we make progress on the road to energy control and renewable energy.
mr commissioner, is the commission trying to be ridiculous again by presenting a strategy paper on energy, on energy security, without addressing the question of transport?
lastly, mr borloo, coreper has discussed renewable energy today, and i no longer understand the french presidency.
this is not the time to change our environmental ambitions, but it is also not the time to unilaterally change the only european industrial sector exposed to international competition.
providing the legal basis for the new excise movement control system will allow the member states to speed up their preparation for the introduction of the system, foreseen by april 2010. the commission will take all necessary steps to ensure that all central systems will be operational by that date, as well as provide support to allow a smooth transition to the new paperless environment.
cars produced in europe must become cleaner and less energy-intensive and we cannot foresee the foreseeable future without this indispensable mode of individual transport.
the commission clearly recognises the importance that bees play in the eu’s ecology and its ecosystem.
concerning ecological pollen zones, despite the fact that it seems difficult to set up zones as such, i would like to remind you that financial support is already granted for the efficiency of moving of beehives.
this directive provides that pesticides may only be used if it has been demonstrated that they pose no significant risk of unacceptable effects to human and animal health, and the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
− madam president, i wish to thank the honourable members for their remarks and observations concerning environmental issues, which are so sensitive, as we are all in favour of improving the environment.
the commission shares the view that legally binding requirements for environmental inspections are really needed and are valuable.
however, since it quotes word for word the text voted in the committee on the environment on the placing of these products on the market, i had considered, with my group, that this text should not be plagiarized and that the committee on the environment should have priority.
i would like to thank you, commissioners, for agreeing to this debate and thank you for the intensive work of collaboration which began in bali under the slovenian presidency and then at the informal council in saint-cloud last august on the energy-climate package and which has continued throughout these five months of the presidency.
i would like to hear you in this debate before i join the european environment council, which is taking place at the same time all day.
the coordination of our work cannot be more optimal and i thank you for this invitation, which proves our common desire to reach a comprehensive agreement on what is agreed to be called the energy-climate package.
the energy and climate package is the 'how-to' package, the package of a massive and controlled energy, economic and technological transition, with a shared operating mode, solidarity mechanisms and methodology, all in a union of 27 countries democratically committed to each other.
economic development has never been more closely linked to these energy conditions.
the energy-climate package is the world's largest economy 450 million consumers, 15% of greenhouse gas emissions trying to demonstrate that sustainable development is possible across 27 states, despite such different industrial, climate, geographical and economic histories.
so the three times 20: reduction of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 90 percent, 20 percent renewable energy and 20 percent improvement in energy efficiency.
the commission has translated these objectives into five major regulatory projects: the eds directive or co2 emissions trading scheme for industry and energy suppliers, which aims to reduce emissions from industry by 21% by 2020; the so-called effort sharing directive, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% by 2020 in sectors not covered by the eds, such as construction, transport or agriculture; the renewable energy directive, which aims to increase the share of renewable energy from just over 8% in 2006 to 20% and to reduce transport by 10%; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
finally, the regulation of co2 emissions from motor vehicles, the objective of which is to reduce co2 emissions from 160 to 120 grams between 2006 and 2008. before going into the details of the negotiations, which are by their nature volatile, i would like to make four general remarks.
firstly, this complex package forms a coherent, independent and equitable whole, in which everyone must be able to find his place and make his contribution according to his industrial, energy or geographical characteristics.
this reaction, this wish, was a tremendous accelerator, tremendous pressure, at a time when the worry was pointing to this climate, and it had an absolutely beneficial effect.
in the run-up to the council meeting on 11 and 12 december, the council of environment ministers will be discussing the issues on which it still seems possible to reach agreement between member states.
i will also present your agreement on the proposal for a regulation on co2 emissions from light vehicles and fuel quality.
the fight against deforestation and forest degradation and the conservation and sustainable management of forests are essential elements of a future international climate agreement.
we can see that in the framework of the ets directive, which is probably the most difficult, we must find systems of progressivity and financial solidarity to ensure the energy transition of the countries with the most carbon-intensive economies.
the energy performance of industry in europe varies from one to three times that of the rest of the world.
carbon emissions from one to four times, even five times, depending on the sector.
as regards the risks of carbon leakage, we are working on two hypotheses which are not mutually exclusive: the one of a progressive auctioning and the one of a carbon inclusion mechanism as envisaged by the united states in its own package.
the first is the baltic states, which under the terms of the treaty have committed themselves, one or two at any rate, to dismantling nuclear power stations which, because of their particular geographical situation, constitute a veritable energy island.
the second block includes countries whose industries are significantly less energy efficient, as they are highly carbon-intensive.
we would have failed in the eyes of countries that need our success to believe in their sustainable development.
on the other hand, if our 27 countries, which still have wide disparities in wealth and a priori divergent industrial and energy histories, and also different climates, manage to agree on a public process that can be evaluated, controlled and financed, thus initiating a change in historical trends, i believe that this will be a great hope for copenhagen and for the future of our planet.
obama will make green technologies, renewable energy and efficient cars the centerpiece of rebuilding the american economy.
at the very moment when we have this huge historic opportunity, we here in europe - we who have always led internationally, we who have always set the standards in international climate policy - risk being held back in our vision by the dirtiest corporations and their minions.
this is a political issue, and i am proud that last night we, together with the liberals, the social democrats and the very hesitant conservatives, advanced renewable energy.
this climate package is also about the political future.
mr president, few issues dealt with by the european parliament have such a major impact on the people of europe, and indeed the world, as the energy-climate package.
while it was decided to strengthen cooperation between the environment and industry committees, negotiations took place in an informal trilogue on the basis of a vote in a single committee.
an ambitious climate policy, mr president, cannot be decided behind closed doors and without the knowledge of the citizens.
the renewable energy directive is a milestone in european energy policy.
this directive will not only make electricity, heat and transport in europe more environmentally friendly, it will also make energy locally so that jobs and money stay in europe!
the italian renewable energy industry thanks me today for the fact that we are now making progress in renewable energy in a country like italy, across europe.
we want cooperation and not speculation in the renewable energy market!
the infrastructure is also renewable.
we've made sure that electricity grids are open, gas pipelines are open, that we're investing heavily in heating networks, and that buildings, like the roofs of public buildings, will be used for renewable energy in the future.
the point on which i, as rapporteur, am personally less satisfied is the part on renewable energy in transport.
we will focus on electric mobility, and we will put biomass much more in opposition to sustainability.
the greens will continue to fight with the environmental and development movement to stop nonsensical agrofuels from entering the market!
i'm sure that by 2020, we'll do better than 20 percent, because the costs for technology will go down, because the whole system and the whole economy will be built around renewable energy.
so this directive is starting tomorrow the green energy revolution and i think that it will have to be accompanied by two measures next year.
secondly, when the commission presents the renewable energy action plan next year, i would like it to give serious thought to regional cooperation: north sea - baltic sea cooperation, regional cooperation around the solar plan launched by france and also regional cooperation on biomass.
what we can focus on now is energy efficiency.
the 20% energy efficiency has not been talked about enough in recent months.
but so energy efficiency, buildings, transport logistics, electronics, electric motors, all of these things must now, in 2009 and 2010, be the focus of our attention.
and it will take sweden, spain and belgium, which will hold the eu presidency, together with parliament and the commission, to make energy efficiency the european union's other success story if we are to be on the right track.
- mr president, the procedure chosen to discuss the energy and climate package has prevented parliament from doing its job in a truly democratic way.
the report of the committee on the environment was unreasonable in many respects and was a manifestation of the fundamentalism denounced by president sarkozy.
the energy-climate package ultimately leaves a bitter taste because it was negotiated behind the scenes and in the absence of a real public debate.
mr president, there is a risk that carbon sequestration will become a sort of poltergeist in regaining public acceptance of the building of dirty coal power stations.
secondly – and, mr davies, that is really what you have to judge for yourself – in parliament’s position we had a cap on co2 emissions, which we lost.
so now we are in the situation that we lost the cap and we have a 15% subsidy under the ets regime for new coal power stations, for example in germany, between 2013 and 2016. thus the economics of building conventional coal power stations remain acceptable and i do not know how that fits in with aggressively combating climate change.
it was crucial for me, as rapporteur for the renewables directive, that we work closely together to get the sustainability criteria well enshrined, and enshrined in the same manner, in the two directives.
thanks to mrs corbey’s combativeness, we in the end ensured that in the fuel quality directive there is full duplication now of all the details of the sustainability criteria and that is important for the readability and the visibility of eu legislation.
on this issue of sustainability criteria, i think we now have major improvements on what the commission proposed.
the carbon footprint is now very well defined, not only for direct but also for indirect land use.
i think we have also made sure that environment and energy experts – dg tran and dg envi at commission level, but also at the national level experts from the environmental and energy sectors – will work together on these sustainability criteria, and that too is crucial.