the commitment of the slovenian presidency to strengthen the eu's role as a global leader in climate change mitigation and renewable energy is welcome.
climate change and energy have been at the forefront of public and political attention for many years.
i believe that climate change and energy issues should be among these priorities, including devoting a greater share of the eu structural and cohesion funds to energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energy sources.
while it is logical to formally include emissions reduction and renewable energy in a single document, i believe that it artificially increases the political tension on each of the issues and obscures the debate.
so i'm just going to talk about the renewable resource issue.
it is a choice between security of supply, economic competitiveness and climate protection by the national governments concerned.
energy security is now of particular importance, as oil and gas prices and security of supply make them particularly risky.
if the european union's common targets for increasing the share of renewable resources are to be supported, then setting them at the level of the member states is not, in my view, the task of the moment.
the role of the european institutions should not be underestimated, which can add substantial value, for example in the area of the liberalisation of gas and electricity, but the issue of renewable energy production must be left to the member states, where many of them have long understood it.
and also, as a whole, the european institutions have to show the european citizens that they are capable of showing genuine european solidarity in economically sensitive areas, so that we do not end up with a new energy solidarity clause just like the introduction of the free market principle in the european territory with the services directive.
i think it is very good that a common foreign and security policy has been formulated, as has the need for a common energy policy.
the possibilities for limiting waste paper and energy consumption in the european parliament are still not fully explored.
the policy priorities for 2009 proposed by the european commission promoting economic growth and employment, combating climate change and sustainable development are welcome, but they must also receive the necessary support from the eu budget.
for example, the current limitation for the structural funds to only 3% of the resources of the relevant operational programme for energy efficiency measures prevents new member states from reviewing their priorities for the acquisition of structural funds in line with the new european energy strategy and climate change priorities.
now, some practical things: latin america as a whole is rich in energy resources, but its demand will increase and will require massive investment.
the european union, on the other hand, must lend a helping hand in the field of renewable energy technologies, because climate change is a shared issue.
a stable and secure region with sustainable socioeconomic development is in our interest.
strong international support and cooperation with georgia is needed to resolve this conflict, but i would also like to call on the georgian government to make its utmost contribution to improving the internal political climate within the republic of georgia itself.
all political parties, the government and its opposition, must do everything possible to improve the current highly polarized climate in georgia and to introduce a genuine democratic political culture.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her clear and unequivocal position that, based on the results of scientific research, she recognizes that global warming is real and that it is caused by humans.
the report goes one step further and rejects as scientifically unfounded the claims that global warming is not happening and that it is just natural temperature fluctuations.
with this report, the eu is once again showing that it is the world leader in the fight against global warming.
to keep global warming to 2%, co2 emissions need to be cut by at least half by 2050, according to current estimates.
between 1990 and 2005, the eu-15 reduced their emissions by only 2%, and it is unlikely that they will reduce their emissions by a further 6% in the remaining 5 years to meet their collective kyoto target.
the fact that the new eu member states have reduced emissions much faster than the eu as a whole makes it possible to claim the status of global leader in this area.
the new eu member states are expected to reduce their co2 emissions by 21% by 2010. this fact alone allows eu leaders to talk about the 20% emission reduction target for 2020 as ambitious.
attempts to build eu climate change policy on the achievements of the new member states and some of the old ones, imposing additional burdens on them while giving concessions to the biggest polluters, must not be allowed.
but whatever the distribution of emissions reductions among eu member states, we will achieve nothing unless there is a global agreement and countries like the us, china, india, russia and others are involved in tackling the problem.
this issue must be a priority in the eu's foreign and climate change policy.
first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner and most of my colleagues for the really liberal approach to the electricity market, which together with energy efficiency measures will actually allow us to reduce prices in the future.
the two theses property separation and transmission are and will remain the basic model for truly decentralised generation and the guarantor of access to the electricity networks produced from renewable resources.
however, the pragmatism of the resolution has made us forget our principles, even though virtually all economic growth in russia is based on our payments for energy resources.
as regards the eu's new priorities eu common energy policy and the fight against climate change the current eu budget allocation for these objectives is clearly insufficient.
while it is true that major changes to the structure of the eu budget will only be possible in the context of the medium-term review of the eu financial perspective, some changes can be introduced more quickly, for example by allowing the new member states to allocate a larger share of eu funds to energy efficiency objectives and home heating programmes.
and it's clear that energy resources are needed both for germany and for europe, and from this point of view, this pipeline from russia is needed because russia has these gas resources.
secondly, as we know, the european union's energy strategy provides for interconnection of energy lines.
and there is nothing of that kind here, so it does not really fit in with the european union's strategy for energy solidarity, energy security, which we have already accepted.
and thirdly, there is the environmental aspect, which is the specific subject of mr libicki's report.
as we know, according to a report by the world environment fund, seven of the ten most polluted places in the world's oceans are in the baltic sea.
consequently, it would also be much easier to solve the connectivity problem, and in fact the two aspects environmental and political strategic would be excluded.
the inclusion of aviation in the eu greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme is a logical step.
it gives us the opportunity to tackle climate change.
the european parliament is developing a quality environmental policy which also covers a responsible transport policy.
responsible and quality tourism is the cornerstone of european tourism policy, an economic engine that does much less damage to the environment, infrastructure and culture.
unfortunately, the european vertical and the influence of energy companies politically integrated at the national level in europe on the energy sector remains considerable.
in other words, there are a number of energy-rich and highly developed countries and companies that are moving the needle in their direction, which will inevitably change the center of political influence and the balance of power in the world.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution from industrial sources.
on climate change, i really supported this thesis on flexibility in waste policy, because, for example, my country has long since reached and exceeded the 20% level of renewable energy use.
following the council's agreement on the climate package, 2008 proved to be the most significant year in the fight against climate change since the adoption of the kyoto protocol in 2001. the adoption of the climate package also marks a shift towards new economic thinking, which will reduce the european union's dependence on imported energy resources and the economic and political risks associated with supply insecurity.
it is true that additional aid is granted to countries which have reduced their co2 emissions by more than 20% since 1990. the presidency.
i think the compromise on the renewable energy directive is important because we have not deviated from the objectives and commitments that were expressed earlier, and this despite the financial and economic crisis, despite the fact that fossil fuel prices are falling in the short term.
on transport, i really want to say that it's good that these sustainability criteria have been put forward and that a scheme to promote next generation biofuels has also been found, which i think is a good compromise for this crisis between food production and biofuels.
finally, i am also pleased that the opinion of a small european country like latvia, which has a particularly high share of renewable resources and is already the highest in the european union, was heard that its target was reached and lowered, which shows confidence in europe's understanding of the situation of even small countries.
i think it's a great honor that the agreement on the climate change package was unanimous, because it's clear that we can only move forward effectively if there is consensus.
first, i note that the compromise text contains a solution for those member states whose emissions have fallen by at least 20% between 1990 and 2005. however, the solution needs to be even bolder, because, for example, in the case of my country latvia , the reduction in 2005 compared to 1990 is already 57%, and the total funding available from auctions to implement the package has been significantly reduced.
second, in order to achieve the 2020 target, an effective incentive system at european union level is needed to support businesses and individuals that use or deploy renewable energy sources.
the european commission should also do more to find ways of developing more efficient and cheaper renewable energy technologies.
to improve the world's climate, these technologies must be made available at affordable prices...
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: as regards the draft budget of the european union for 2009, i would like to emphasise that the most important thing in this budget is not what has been done but what has not yet been done.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.