regarding solar energy very few private, commercial and public buildings make use of this alternative energy.
wind energy was more popular in the past in agricultural areas.
not only but it has made it known to a major developer, who waited to set up four wind mills generating energy, that the permission would not be given because of aesthetic reasons.
the key objectives of the fund should be the promotion of energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energies, reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases and the improvement of access to energy services in the poorest countries, not to mention diversification of energy sources in the developing world.
statistics (which are already outdated) indicate that 1.6 billion people do not have access to basic energy services.
the international energy agency estimates that by 2010 usd 241 billion will be needed to be invested into renewable energy generation.
i think the main theme or the goal is to bring these contexts into the picture, into the spotlight, and create a conducive environment for creativity, for innovation, for culture as such, for the place of culture in our societies, in our relationships.
with regard to emissions by ships i would like to recall the very significant agreement that has just been reached within imo on sox and on nox.
i do not have time to outline the actions already taken or envisaged in the short term on fisheries like ieu, the structural fishing practices, the ecosystem approach, discards, port strategy, maritime transport, marine maritime research, the marine environment, energy, governance, surveillance or the social exclusion of seafarers, all of which we are dealing with.
on the other hand, it is clear that the action plan contains 'too few concrete measures', and that it must be admitted that european maritime policy is not prepared for the consequences of climate change, in particular sea-level rise and the increased risks of flooding in ports and coastal regions.
it is important that member states take the lead in making a european maritime policy a major contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases.
we needed this new start, we needed this new energy for the mediterranean policy which is so important for the mediterranean and for europe.
so the country we are talking about today has a responsibility to remain sustainable in terms of convergence, especially the rate of inflation that we talked a lot about even in my report.
it is important to control emissions but it is also important to distinguish between the different aspirations and realities of the component countries within the eu.
this will create a new poverty, a poverty that will be known as energy poverty.
the policy of alternative energy is non-existent despite the fact that in countries we have a lot of sun and wind, even with regard to cleaner energy such as the use of gas so much that the government has not even started to think about it.
should the use of natural gas become more widespread, it will no doubt change the policy on energy in both malta and gozo.
this can take place if gas is used in the production of energy itself.
they cover a wide range of policy areas, although land-use planning and environmental issues crop up very often; they cover practically all member states, and they cover a broad cross-section of civil society, from the individual citizen right up to the multi-national non-governmental organisation.
they are also essential in the fight against climate change in terms of co2 emissions.
– water scarcity is a growing concern for all nations, but the impacts are generally more strongly felt by the poorest regions, leading to great environmental and economic misfortunes.
protecting water as a scarce resource is fundamental for environmental protection and economic development.
the creation of a more cohesive policy with regard to water consumption, education and policy integration is necessary at european level to ensure effective and responsible protection of water supply and the environment in member states.
in addition, in the eu itself – at least in number of member states – we need to have better and tougher legislation to curb abuse and pollution of water tables.
the purchasing power of many households is being eroded by sharp increases in costs in general, and especially those relating to food, health and energy.
among the risks faced by children is the risk of being exposed to child-abuse material or being contacted by people who will befriend them in order to commit sexual abuse (grooming), or becoming victims of bullying in the online environment (cyber bullying).
the question is whether the eu has sufficient resources and will create enough funds to adequately implement measures on mitigation, stabilization and adaptation on emissions.
generally speaking, the eu budget - in its present format - cannot deal efficiently and effectively with issues related to climate change.
with the exception of a number of initiatives and programmes the eu budget does not have a clear and integrated strategy to address climate change issues.
in this respect, therefore, i am arguing that the creation of a specific 'climate change fund' or a dedicated budget line would significantly improve the eu's capability to effectively address climate change issues from a budgetary and financial perspective.
the main source of funding should be coming from the auctioning of emissions under the european emissions trading scheme.
cross border pollution is best managed at supranational level, especially when it comes to allocation of resources and support, which should be based on needs and highest impact, not pre-allocated to countries or regions.
you mentioned energy policy, and i think you were right to do so.
mrs ţicǎu, i believe that one of the acquis of the commission's proposals for the revival of activity is concrete, specific, but also sustainable and structural investment, and i fully agree with you on this point.
i fully agree with those who have spoken about investment, about the need to link the necessary investment, the medium-term vision, with the energy and climate change package.
in the recovery process we must give priority to solutions that protect jobs, growth and the most vulnerable, promote economic energy and stability, while ensuring that parties with vested interests in maintaining the status quo are kept at a distance.
the development of sustainable tourism as opposed to seasonal tourism has to be encouraged.
dumping sand on existing beaches or creating new sandy beaches without undertaking the necessary infrastructural works is just a waste of resources.
and in this context one additional and important aspect which appears to be lacking in relation to current proposals to malta's largest sandy beach l-ghadira - is respect and sensitivity to the immediate environment.
the two types of water transport are inland and sea transport and both are energy efficient.
transporting a product on water produces about one percent (1%) of the carbon dioxide that would be produced by carrying the same item the same distance by air.
all other alternatives leave a larger carbon footprint.
in the end, instead of reducing greenhouse gas emissions we would have put in place a set of rules and regulations which will ultimately defeat the general scope of our proposals.