(applause)
mr president, transport emissions account for one fifth of greenhouse gas emissions.
so cars really need to become sustainable.
but the link between the two is not being made, when it is clear that sustainable and fuel-efficient cars are the future.
so it is a pity for the environment, but also for employment in the european union.
the cars 21 high-level group is a missed opportunity to put forward a vision of a sustainable automotive industry, a vision that responds to the real challenges.
mr president, i think the car lobby's frantic efforts to delay the most necessary environmental measures for as long as possible are succeeding.
waiting until 2015 to substantially reduce co2 emissions from cars is really irresponsible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce emissions.
we expect the european citizens to make sacrifices to save our climate.
the aim must be to protect the environment as much as possible against the ever-growing expansion of aviation and to protect safety as much as possible.
given the negative environmental impacts of aviation at and around airports, the differentiation tool could provide an incentive to use cleaner and quieter aircraft.
- the madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i should first like to thank and congratulate the european parliament and in particular the rapporteur, mr blokland, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, as well as mrs mann and the committee on industry, research and energy for their excellent reports and the opinion delivered at the first reading.
over the last 30 years, european union policies and legislation to protect public health and the environment have made significant progress in reducing the risks from chemicals, not only in the european union but also on a global scale.
i am thinking in particular of the secretariat of the committee on the environment and the shadow rapporteurs and their staff who have been very good to me.
it was a technically complicated proposal, sometimes with heated debate about what was best for the environment.
i fully recognize and share parliament's desire for a high level of protection of human health and the environment, particularly in those countries which do not have the necessary infrastructure and capacity to properly manage hazardous chemicals.
the european parliament consulted the legal service of the parliament, and our legal service was also absolutely convinced that the legal basis should not be 'trade' but 'environment'.
we also raised this issue with commissioner dimas when he had his briefing with parliament's committee on the environment.
satellites can be used to monitor the use and condition of the soil, to study the effects of climate change, and even to predict our harvests.
the data provided by mars and lucas can be of great use, especially in the field of climate research.
the rapporteur proposes a target of 125 grams of co2 per km by 2015. the commission proposal sets a maximum of 120 grams of co2 emissions in 2012, and i have had this brought back as an amendment.
for years voluntary agreements between the commission and the automobile industry have been in place to reduce co2 emissions.
the rapporteur proposes a target of 125 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2015. the commission proposal called for a maximum of 120 grams of co2 emissions in 2012. my group has brought this back as an amendment today, but it has not succeeded.
voluntary agreements between the commission and the automotive industry to reduce co2 emissions have existed for many years.
we believe that the whole issue of energy transparency is particularly important in the negotiations in preparation for the new agreement.
the importance of the south caucasus as an energy corridor for the european union cannot be underestimated.
what else will happen to our goal of energy diversification?
add to this the necessary energy supplies to azerbaijan to carry out the nabucco project.
if the european union is to make the most of the southern caucasus as an energy corridor, internal political stability in georgia, armenia and azerbaijan is essential.
and then we talk about security, energy, trade, transport, in fact, if you take it all together, about the stability and development of the regions bordering the european union, regions where we have great interests.
i was not present in rio, mr president, but i was at the first conference in athens and i saw the importance of this formula of the forum: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
i would like to thank the european commission for the energy package which has just been presented.
building on the decisions taken last year to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we now have the legislative package.
the amendment of the emissions trading directive will indeed hurt several sectors.
i am also looking forward to the directive on carbon capture and storage.
it would also be great if there were more renewable energy sources; 20% until 2020, as proposed.
the sustainability criteria should be clearly set out in this directive.
for most of the proposals the environment committee in this house will be designated as the committee responsible.
we must keep our backs straight to ensure, within the framework of accountability and justice, legislation that benefits everyone and everything, but above all the environment.
president, today we are seeing the impact of europe's climate ambitions.
in bali, it was determined that 25-40% less is needed by 2020 to save the climate.
that is a wrong signal to the rest of the world, and furthermore, bulgaria and romania, among others, are allowed to increase their emissions considerably.
so there's little reason for china and india to start reducing their emissions.
it would be better if the richer countries in the european union helped countries like bulgaria and romania to reduce their emissions.
unfortunately, the renewal of the emissions trading system has been watered down by pressure from the industrial lobby.
it is a pity that the commission has fallen on deaf ears and reduced the share of auctioning rights for energy-intensive industries.
- the debate on iran is about more than nuclear energy, the threat of war and human rights violations.
it is also good that western countries continue to support developing countries in the use of sustainable technology.
finally, a problem that has not been solved is the greenhouse gas emissions from shipping.
president, bali was just the beginning; it's a good first step towards an international climate agreement in 2009. bali was a close-run success thanks to european leadership, and my sincere congratulations to commissioner dimas and his team.
europe wants to reduce greenhouse gases by 30% by 2020. that remains the aim of negotiations.
the strong lobbying by some governments and captains of industry against the energy and climate package was also a wrong signal.
we must show that this can be done without sacrificing jobs, and i have every confidence that a historic climate agreement can be signed in 2009. however, a good european climate policy is a necessary condition for this.
there are so many opportunities in energy efficiency.
in the committee on regional policy we have seen - and mr buzek has already spoken about this - that in the period up to 2006 it was possible to give priority to energy and energy efficiency in the objectives of the structural funds.
we have just had a discussion here in this room about energy efficiency in the built environment.
it is good that we are finally moving from abstract theories to concrete proposals for greater energy efficiency in the european union.
i am pleased that this report maintains the objective of 20% energy efficiency improvement by 2020. i do not agree with paragraph 16 of this report, which calls for the removal from the market of the least energy-efficient appliances.
the vvd euro group believes that it would be strange if, in the context of the fight against climate change, we did not also look at how to make terrace heaters more efficient.
the group therefore agreed with the call in mrs hall's report to the european commission to phase out energy-inefficient appliances and replace them with more efficient ones.
the report should be seen as an incentive for industry to develop more energy-efficient appliances - such as terrace heaters.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
there is a need to discuss transparency in the system, the need for greater flexibility, a better definition of what constitutes a european company, and social and environmental aspects in relation to determining the european community's interest.
this can only be done if everyone who can is actively involved and we take care of a good living environment.
the promotion of employment and sustainable development are therefore rightly the main objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy.
turkmenistan is a country of importance for the energy diversification of the european union, that is beyond doubt.
as our eu representative, pierre morel, has said on numerous occasions, developing an energy dialogue is not possible at all without our help in building functioning states.
it is about globalisation and its effects, about climate change, about energy issues and the demographic challenges.
and that is why we must ensure that we have a sustainable agriculture, where maximum investment is made in protecting and improving the rural environment and the environment, so that not only we but also our children can enjoy it.
i have one very important concern, however, and that is that we are still exporting the old technology, which is not efficient and also leads to emissions, to developing countries.
the environmental argument plays a part, but i think that the increase in fuel prices is already a sufficient driving factor in this.
i hope that my next annual report, early 2009, will be able to deal fully with the normal internal developments in macedonia, including concern for the environment, independence of the media, improvement of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, modernisation of the railways, equality of the various church bodies and freedom of negotiation for the trade union movement.
president, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, coal and steel were at the heart of the european union when it was created and they are still at the heart of it, albeit on a very different agenda of globalisation, climate change and energy issues.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european commission and commissioner dimas for the green paper 'adaptation to climate change in europe - opportunities for eu action'.
adaptation to climate change can be integrated into many existing legislative frameworks in areas such as water, energy, agriculture and fisheries, and industry.
it is also important to assist developing countries in adapting to a changing climate, for example in the field of environmental technology transfer.
the eu will then be able to speak with one voice to the other partners in the international climate debate at the forthcoming poznan and copenhagen climate conferences.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, adaptation to climate change needs to be given much more attention very quickly, because whatever we do to combat climate change, it requires investment to adapt societies to rising sea levels, more water in rivers, or less water and drought.
it is up to the member states themselves to plan and analyse the effects of climate change and prepare for them.
many african and asian countries have contributed little to climate change themselves, but are experiencing its harms.
the position of regions in the union is also changing as a result of climate change.
we see in the structural funds that more than 15 billion is already being spent on energy efficiency, biofuels, etc.
♪ that's the way we want to go ♪ ♪ we want to go on ♪ we will also be revising the regulation on the structural funds to improve energy efficiency.
the food and energy policy remains important and perhaps we can solve it within the 5% margin that the interinstitutional agreement offers us.
it is of the utmost importance that diplomatic chatter does not overshadow the impending environmental disaster off the spanish coast.
the first priority must always be to protect the environment.
increasing prosperity in china and india with a growing demand for meat products, the biofuel targets of europe and the united states, rising energy prices, you name it.
for example, we have already started a dialogue on peace, stability and sustainable development in africa.
the people's republic of china's commercial presence on african soil has environmental effects which china must deal with responsibly.
- the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97).
president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, two weeks ago i represented the committee on the environment and the committee on climate change at the informal environment council in slovenia in the autumn.
most of the emphasis was on biodiversity, biomass and biofuels in relation to forest biodiversity.
the possibilities of forest biomass for energy supply, in particular for second generation biofuels, and sustainability criteria for the use of forest biomass were discussed.
they are experiencing a profound change in their environment and as a result cannot survive.
it is therefore essential, in the context of the protection of biodiversity, to halt deforestation wherever possible.
deforestation also leads to serious soil erosion, especially in mountainous areas, and to a disruption of water management, which further seriously affects biodiversity.
global warming can also affect the diversity of species.
however, studies published in recent years in nature and science, among others, show that increasing forest cover also leads to higher emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas 23 times more potent than co2.
the emissions of methane are much higher in tropical areas.
additional forest planting leads to additional co2 capture capacity, but some of that co2 capture is thus offset by an increase in methane emissions.
finally, the negative effects on biodiversity of the factors mentioned are unfortunately exacerbated by the current production of biofuels, which is destroying mainly tropical rainforests.
the species-rich forests are being replaced by plantations with low species cover, which also have negative effects on greenhouse gas emissions, absorption capacity and food prices.
in the context of climate change, there is an increasing emphasis on the use of biofuels.
the eu's climate change package includes a number of environmental criteria that biofuels should meet.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of genetically modified organisms.
i really put public health, the environment and biodiversity first.
we are more concerned with public health, the environment and biodiversity than with corporate profits.
i would like to thank mrs anne ferreira for her report on market-compliant instruments for environmental objectives.
that is one reason why i am in favour of a full accounting of all external costs, including environmental costs, in manufactured and consumer goods.
in practice, social and environmental factors play a role alongside economic ones.
you may be financially strapped, but when you live in a crowded city with an excess of air pollution, the level of prosperity is still limited.
overdevelopment of the economy, rising unemployment, major complaints about, for example, high energy prices, all of which lead to a certain uncertainty, which of course will also have its effect on the leading actors in the country.
it is also important to look at how we can jointly develop a trade agenda which also includes social and environmental aspects.
i would like to mention a number of priorities for the short term, in addition to the development of this market, and i think that the food crisis should also be on the agenda, as well as secure and sustainable energy supplies - we are both mainly energy consumers and dependent on producing countries - and of course the stability of the financial markets.
we must ensure that professional players from a young age are well protected and trained in a stable environment.
− eu policy is strongly shaped by the interests of large companies, which seek to strengthen their international competitiveness by cutting costs in the areas of environment, labour, safety and consumer protection.
this gives the trade union movement, the environmental movement and the consumer organizations the opportunity to do something about it.
confidence in that environment which, indeed, with the great tensions that have been in northern ireland, was so much needed.
now, the european commission is frantically looking for excuses to avoid a general ban on discrimination, such as that more study is needed – as if we cannot all see that there is discrimination all around – or that there is no consensus in the council – well, that never stopped the european commission from pushing its proposals in other areas such as energy policy.
we support mr piecyk’s proposals, which are focused on useful elements like the environment, the protection of coastal regions, education and the quality of labour.
this is totally contrary to the principles of the internal market and indirectly pollutes the environment.
the arguments in favour of road safety, the environment and the reduction of administrative burdens mentioned in the european commission's argument are not relevant here.
the substances then end up in the environment, with disastrous consequences for fisheries and tourism.
the high steel prices, low wages, poor safety standards and lack of environmental measures are apparently financially attractive.
the committee on the environment makes it clear that these practices are ethically unacceptable and that the dehumanizing and environmentally devastating situations surrounding the dismantling of ships must no longer continue.
the main objective we want to achieve is the protection of the environment and public health without shifting the burden of the problems to other countries.
the committee on the environment has put forward the following specific proposals.
in order to avoid circumventing the regulation on shipments of waste, there should be guidelines for determining when a ship is a ship and when it is waste.
the waste shipment regulation should be better implemented and enforced through stricter controls and supervision by port authorities in the member states, with the understanding that port states should have the power to declare a ship to be derelict.
the development aid should transfer know-how and technology to south asian scrapyards to meet safety and environmental standards.
i am glad to see that there is a great deal of agreement on this subject in the committee on the environment and the two joint committees.
last thursday, the otopan left the netherlands for turkey after authorities had the ship cleaned, removing all the hazardous waste.
this is possible under the waste shipment regulation.
the consequences, both in terms of working conditions and the environment, are often dramatic and the eu must not shirk its responsibility in this regard.
the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
it is then waste and should be treated as such.
we simply cannot allow other hazardous waste to leave the eu without guarantees as to how it will be treated, and there is no reason not to do the same with scrap vessels.
in addition, as in the whole of european waste policy, the emphasis should be on processing within the union itself.
firstly, you call on the member states and the commission to implement the waste shipment regulation more effectively and, in particular, you call on the commission to draw up a list of vessels likely to be sent to the smelters in the coming years.
we also agree that the waste shipment regulation should be applied more strictly to end-of-life ships.
moreover, since most european ships will be broken up and become waste outside community waters, it is necessary to establish a binding international regime.
dismantling is also often carried out in contravention of local legislation and against the wishes of ministries of social affairs and the environment.
the point is that this amendment suggests that environmental degradation in ship dismantling should no longer continue in developing countries.
today, there is clear evidence that major changes in the climate system are man-made and that these changes are already having a negative impact on nature and human society.
it is also certain that unless we act quickly to reduce greenhouse gas emissions substantially, global temperatures will continue to rise during this century, leading to widespread damage and disruption.
the fourth assessment report of the intergovernmental forum on climate change, adopted in spain in november 2007, is the most comprehensive and credible scientific assessment of climate change to date.
the report says that the warming of the climate system is undeniable, that the increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gas concentrations is very likely the main contributor to the increase in global average temperature over the past 50 years.
the ipcc assessment reports published since 1990 show that the science of climate change and its consequences has advanced considerably in recent years.
this can be attributed to a number of factors, including the growing evidence of perceived climate change, the hard work of scientists and better communication of scientific knowledge.
as stated in the florence interim report, which we believe provides some very important fresh formulations on the problems described, what we know today is sufficient to start immediately designing and implementing policies that will contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
this is why, as we all know, european heads of state or government decided last march to send a strong message to the international community by adopting commitments to reduce emissions.
the european union is determined to deliver on these commitments through a comprehensive climate and energy policy.
it will then pay particular attention to energy efficiency, renewable energy, biofuels, carbon capture and storage and the transition to a low-carbon economy in general.
as mentioned, the european union made a strong and ambitious commitment to climate and energy policy last year.
the bali climate change conference last december was a major breakthrough in the international negotiation process involving both developed and developing countries.
the european union is determined to continue to maintain its leading international role in the field of climate change and energy and to maintain the necessary momentum in the negotiations under the united nations framework convention, in particular at the next session, to be held in poznań this year.
the aim is to ensure that an ambitious, global and comprehensive agreement on climate change for the period after 2012 is reached in copenhagen in 2009, in line with the european union's objective of limiting global temperature rise to a maximum of two degrees.
and the key challenge is to make the transition to a safe and sustainable low-carbon economy in a way that is compatible with the european union's sustainable development, competitiveness, security of energy supply, security of supply and sound and resilient public finances.
- the mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss today the interim report of the interim committee on climate change, which was presented by mr florenz, whom i congratulate on his excellent work.
the report confirms the european parliament's support for an ambitious european community policy to combat climate change and i take this opportunity, mr president, to thank all the members of the european parliament for their continued support and such a significant contribution to promoting our climate policy and to raising awareness among the general public and to informing members from other countries.
i also want to underline, mr president, the important role you have played in promoting the european union's climate change policy, and i am sure that you and the members of the european parliament will continue to do so with the same zeal so that we can use these two years - because there are less than two years left - to achieve an agreement in copenhagen at the end of 2009 to deal effectively with this great threat to the planet.
both within the european union, where the debate on the climate and energy package is intensifying, and in the international negotiations, we need to mobilise all our forces and work together as best we can to build on the lead the european union has gained in the run-up to the copenhagen conference in december 2009. the important decisions taken in bali were driven by a combination of two factors: europe's global leadership in the fight against climate change; and the fact that the eu is a global leader in the fight against climate change.
on the other hand, the scientific findings of the ipcc, the intergovernmental panel on climate change, have led many of the world's leaders to admit that there is indeed an urgent need for action.
thanks to this series of scientific reports, citizens and policy-makers, including members of parliament in various countries, are now better aware of the scale of the challenge and the serious risks we face if we do not act to stop climate change.
i think we can almost all agree that there is indeed scientific evidence of the need for urgent and bold action to tackle climate change, which the interim report before us summarises.
the scientific debate over whether climate change is caused by human activities has dragged on for decades because of skeptics and has prevented decisive action.
but we now know enough to conclude that taking ambitious action quickly is in our interest in terms of energy security and in terms of economic, environmental and social interests.
if we limit the increase in global temperature to two degrees celsius - a limit beyond which we lose control of limiting or reversing environmental impacts - greenhouse gas emissions could peak within the next ten to fifteen years at the most.
in the long run, to have a good chance of not exceeding two degrees celsius, global emissions in 2050 would have to be reduced by 50% compared to the 1990 level.
to do this requires a radical change in the way we produce and use energy.
what is needed is a global transition to a low-carbon economy, small but significant changes in many aspects of our daily lives.
it has become clear from the ipcc reports that even with ambitious measures to reduce emissions, some serious impacts of climate change will be rather unavoidable.
one of the challenges in this direction will be to ensure that developed countries participate in the effort to reduce emissions to levels corresponding to the two degrees celsius target.
this is a reduction of their emissions by 25%-40% by 2020 compared to 1990. i would like to be absolutely clear on this point.
there are many opportunities for reducing emissions, opportunities that have significant added benefits, both for energy security and human health and for development in general.
there is a growing awareness of the need to take action to tackle climate change.
at the same time, the additional benefits are beginning to be realised, whether in terms of energy security, human health or economic development, which will not only not be jeopardised but rather enhanced.
one of these will be the g8 and g8 sim5 summits, where the japanese presidency has turned its attention to climate change.
another will be the un-led initiative for the world's major economies, as well as the various bilateral partnerships of the european union on climate change.
we will use all these opportunities to convince our partners that urgent action is needed and that sound and sustainable policies on energy and climate change must be put in place.
it is good that all the relevant scientific information on climate change has been gathered in this report.
that can then serve as a good stepping stone to the final report of the interim committee on climate change.
much is already known about climate change, but much more research is needed because many parameters are still unknown.
the debate on climate change is very emotional, and rightly so.
we will be working intensively on climate change in the coming months and there are very ambitious measures on the agenda.
it is of the utmost importance that europe shows its credibility before copenhagen and reaches agreement on the climate package.
to limit climate change, we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60% to 80% by 2050. colleagues, that is not an easy task.
of course, there is a lot of profit and employment to be made from clean production and it is also good that we are ending our dependence on oil and entering the world of renewable energy in this way.
but the transition to a low-carbon economy is not easy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the environment, health and the environment.
du is waste, and is an extremely cheap material for making arms.
everyone here is talking about not just talking about terrorism, about classic security issues, but also looking at how issues related to energy security and climate threat are relevant to our security agenda.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/91 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
i am thinking in particular of the prominence of the waste hierarchy, the elimination of the by-product category, the prudent handling of the end-of-waste concept, the protective rules on hazardous waste and the objectives for prevention, reuse and recycling.
the only negative thing in the report by the committee on the environment was the amendment to encourage waste incineration by considering it as a useful application if sufficient energy is recovered.
the negotiating result, which was reached after two months, leaves little of the recommendation of the committee on the environment, and that was not the fault of the rapporteur but, above all, of the council's rigid position.
the article on by-products has not been amended and member states can decide on their own when waste is no longer waste, with all the distortions of competition that come with it.
i hope, however, that we will adopt the better elements of the committee on the environment in tomorrow's vote, and i am referring in particular to the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group and the greens.
the environment is worth going through another conciliation procedure to get the council to make the necessary improvements.
it is an important concept from the point of view of feasibility, provided, of course, that the environment is not significantly affected.
that is unhealthy for people and the environment and we certainly need to do something about it.
the result now is a good balance between environmental protection on the one hand and cost-effectiveness for businesses, for water boards and for public authorities on the other.
for example, mixing zones near discharge points where higher levels of pollution are allowed should be clearly demarcated and member states should indicate how the mixing zones can be reduced in the future.
the task, as the rapporteur, mr schmidt, makes very clear, is to show solidarity with all citizens in europe and in the developing countries, while respecting the environment.
clearly the current political climate in most member states will not be of any help.
the other point is energy poverty, and that is why we also think this is a very strong report from parliament and we hope that it will be passed.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
fortunately, the energy council has recognised that there is no such level playing field in the current situation.
the reports on the health and environmental effects of this technique still raise the necessary questions.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
that takes up a lot of space, a lot of energy, affects air quality and causes a lot of unnecessary noise.
it must be delivered to all interested parties without interruption and with the lowest possible environmental impact.
electricity will continue to be a scarce and fragile commodity, especially as fossil fuels are depleted and global warming continues.
in fact, all vessels should be replaced by smaller multi-purpose vessels with sustainable fishing methods.
the dutch fishing fleet is responsible for about 1% of total co2 emissions.
especially when you consider that with a cleanup that fleet disappears and there's a complete reduction in co2 emissions.
we also have to work on creating a secure and transparent framework for energy relations, including, of course, trade, but also improving the investment climate in russia, where admittance and entry into the wto could be very helpful.
that is why good binding agreements on energy, but also on climate change, are necessary for both.
firstly, the development of the intelligent car must serve the interests of a clean environment.
firstly, i believe it is important that the development of the intelligent car should be in line with the environmental objectives of the european union.
the report mentions the european commission's objective of limiting the co2 emissions of new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles to an average of 120 grams per kilometre.
certainly, in the sustainable development of energy sources for the car there are still many intelligent possibilities to achieve the co2 emission targets.
it is of the utmost importance that the development of intelligent cars is not seen in isolation from the development of an intelligent car environment.
it is precisely in this cooperation that there are many opportunities to reduce environmental pollution and to make traffic safer.
we must, however, accept that transport is detrimental to the environment and will continue to be associated with accidents.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
they are concerned about the environmental situation in the sensitive baltic sea region.
everyone agrees that all international and environmental conventions must be respected, especially when it comes to the sensitive baltic sea area.
we must recognize that we need energy, that domestic production, for example in the netherlands, is falling more and more and that we therefore need the gas of others.
so my first point is respect for all international and environmental conventions.
the second point is - and i hope not everyone has been deaf - that if there is sufficient environmental impact assessment, then permits must be issued.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs.
the aviation sector also needs to become a cleaner sector and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
in our fight against environmental pollution and climate change, this agreement is an important step in the right direction, especially in the light of the progress made in the climate package which we as parliament are now actively studying.
the energy market must be able to operate at european level, in particular to ensure that final consumers are supplied with energy at market prices.
they had failed to ensure the quality and continuity of the service on a sustainable basis.
the commission has also taken the view that the community's transport policy should be based on a balanced approach to the problems of the environment and the environment.
the report by mrs rack has succeeded in making it clear that a safe, sustainable and well-functioning urban mobility structure is a matter for european cities and municipalities, and i think this is the great merit of the report.
they also have a responsibility to contribute to the objective of urban mobility plans: sustainable, safe and well-functioning urban transport.
the scarcity of space does not allow for heavy traffic, and noise and air pollution are reasons for striving to reduce the number of cars in the city.
despite the energy and the wonderful proposals we are going to discuss here today, and which i am in favour of, we still have not got through that proposal, which has been on the table for years and which is a crucial element in creating trust between member states and thus also in facilitating extradition.
the current situation in georgia is also an acute stimulus for the member states to take a real serious and urgent approach to a common external energy policy, with energy diversification.
i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, mrs niebler, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, for the good cooperation.
growth brings opportunities, but also challenges: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
it is important that the european commission should speed up the process of drawing up guidelines on unclear and sometimes even contradictory environmental legislation.
i would also urge the european commission to publish guidelines on the implementation of community environmental legislation before 2008. the lack of clarity and transparency in this area is currently hampering the development of european ports.
it is not good for the environment, for safety, for working conditions and for animal welfare.
firstly, in the field of soil, we already have a lot of directives that affect soil health and the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not used for the production of waste water.
in addition, more money must be made available for the effects of climate change with a share of the auctions of co2 allowances.
the polluter pays, the poor countries are not responsible for global warming.
the aid will also have to be directed towards renewable energy.
they are a danger to the crew and to others and can be a serious threat to the environment.
operating costs can also be reduced by dumping ship's waste and cargo residues on board.
unfortunately, the trade in waste wood is still widespread in europe.
responsible timber importers are therefore literally and figuratively paying a high price for complying with environmental and safety standards, as much cheaper illegal timber is still widely traded.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/91 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
what would be possible, for example, is that we set a limit of, say, 2% of trans fatty acids in total energy intake.
the use of pesticides must also be reduced, the impact of intensive livestock farming on the water supply must be considered and measures against climate change must be taken.
the question is not whether there is enough drinking water, the problem is the distribution of clean drinking water, unnecessary pollution and the urge to privatize.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation.
the commission has also proposed that the directive on the protection of the environment be amended to include the possibility of the member states to impose a minimum level of protection on the environment.
our own environmental ambitions can only be achieved if we reach agreement with other important partners in the world.
the cold figures may be the only sign of a strategic, indeed indispensable, partnership between the european union and russia in the energy sector: today, the eu27 depend on russia for some 70% of its oil and gas exports.
finally, moscow itself indicates that its energy reserves will be exhausted in ten to fifteen years.
the council and the commission, where is your strategy for energy diversification?
- in the climate and energy debate currently taking place in this house, we have repeatedly stressed the importance of a sustainable society.
one part of this is a sustainable transport sector.
but other stages can also be taken to make transport more sustainable, through green procurement, as proposed in the proposal we are discussing.
i wholeheartedly support the principle of including energy and environmental impacts in vehicle procurement.
this will stimulate sustainable vehicle development by promoting demand for sustainable vehicles and thereby encouraging manufacturers to innovate more.
important aspects to be taken into account are fuel consumption and related co2 emissions, but also the emissions of toxic and otherwise harmful particles and substances such as nitrogen oxides and fine dust.
−we welcome the report aimed at creating a safer online environment for children.
i support the new priorities on climate change and energy.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
- the environment committee believes it is important to be a reliable public authority.
the aim was to cut direct subsidies sharply and to increase returns in terms of environmental protection and employment.
the environment committee wants this to be done for the public services they provide, such as biodiversity enhancement and water management, and for their work on the environment, animal welfare and food safety that goes beyond the legal obligations.
to reverse this, less spraying will be required and biodiversity will have to be promoted by buffer zones, and in this context, genetic engineering and also intensive one-sided agriculture are a problem.
but a lot has changed in the last 50 years: rapidly growing world population, climate change, globalisation, unfair trade and food price speculation, see the recent food crisis.
it is high time for fair trade and more attention to sustainability, health and innovative solutions to the challenges we really face.
food security must therefore be at the forefront of this debate, but especially in the debate on agricultural policy after 2013. because the last thing i think we need is to find ourselves as dependent on the far-away world for our daily bread as we are for energy.
this is a matter of targeted investment, both in the lisbon - knowledge - and gothenburg - energy and ecology - lines.
yes, we have a short-term responsibility for jobs that are on the way, but we also have a long-term responsibility to leave to future generations a healthy economy, a healthy environment, but also healthy public finances.
i think it is a bit bittersweet, mr president, that for years there has been no money for health care, no money for education, no money for childcare and no money for the environment and that we are now being asked to put billions into saving the car industry.
the car industry has done nothing to innovate to produce lower co2 and still the lobby continues to weaken the carbon requirements of the car industry.
the sustainability of the pension system, adapted to demographic and economic developments and based on risk-averse long-term investment strategies, should be given high priority.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the environment is rightly high on the agenda.
the implementation of environmental policy is already failing, as the information from the european commission shows.
the current policy on environmental inspection is contained in the recommendation, which is interpreted quite differently in different member states.
information also indicates that environmental inspections are not carried out in full.
all this means that despite existing environmental legislation, the environment does not always benefit from it.
if we want the quality of the environment to improve, we must ensure that the implementation of the legislation is properly monitored.
commissioner, you said you were offering your credentials in the environmental field.
i myself was rapporteur for a regulation on shipments of waste in 2007 and before that.
in the context of better implementation of environmental policy, do you wish to make the existing recommendation binding?
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
unlike somalia, whose waste was discussed in the previous item, nigeria is a functioning state.
- i think it is a bit cynical that in recent years there has never been enough money for education, health care, innovation and the environment, but now it is raining billions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in the past few weeks, we have been very busy with the negotiations on the climate and energy package.
that could damage the ambitions of the climate package.
however, i am fully aware of the difficult task of the presidency in reaching consensus within the council, especially as a number of member states are taking advantage of the financial crisis to relax efforts on climate and energy.
i therefore call on the presidency to stick to the promising efforts agreed at the european council in the spring of 2007 and 2008. in the light of the poznan climate conference, which started this week and which we will be attending next week with an eu delegation, it is very important to maintain ambition.
in bali, we promised the rest of the world that we would come up with a comprehensive climate package, and we should not be ashamed of those expectations.
if those expectations are disappointed, the european union will lose its confidence, and this will disrupt the progress of the negotiations for a new climate treaty.
mr. president, emotions are running high as the climate package nears completion.
some argue that the climate can wait, at least until the crisis is over.
first, it is absolutely essential that we act quickly against global warming.
we really need to move to a sustainable energy supply.
and thirdly, effective climate policy is a good weapon against recession.
investments in renewable energy, green energy infrastructure and energy efficiency in buildings are creating millions of jobs, and we cannot afford to let that go.
that is a good and powerful signal, especially at a time when oil companies are increasingly using energy to produce gasoline and diesel.
the fuel directive thus provides a major impetus for global reductions in emissions from flares, accelerated deployment of electricity in road transport and the shift towards more efficient biofuels that also meet stringent sustainability requirements.
the committee on transport voted more greenly than the committee on the environment, for example in bringing forward the dates.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i also hope very much that the member states will actually spend a substantial part of the auction proceeds on climate objectives.
- president, we are pleased with the outcome of the climate package.
so it is not just the climate that is suffering, but also the conditions of competition for firms and industries between the different member states.
the question is whether the outcome of the negotiations is good for the environment.
but now that he wanted to play the board game of carbon emissions, he was willing to sacrifice many pawns, and eventually even the king, on his own chessboard.
and that's a very bizarre part of the climate package, because this process naturally leads to more co2 being emitted.
- mr shell can be satisfied, but the environment cannot be.
these are wonderful results, and they set europe on a sustainable path.
the fuel directive has two objectives: air quality and reduction of co2 emissions.
but it is in the southern countries that the problem of harmful ozone is also at play.
now i come to the second main objective: the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
the oil industry will have to report in the coming years how much greenhouse gas emissions are caused by oil extraction, transportation, distribution, refining and the use of diesel or petrol.
then the whole chain must reduce emissions by 10% by 2020. we have, of course, spoken at length about this 10% target.
so there are strict sustainability requirements.
it is about co2 efficiency, it is about biodiversity, but it is also about social criteria.
reducing flaring of gas is one of the most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gases, but it is not always traceable to the petrol or diesel that comes onto the market in europe.
the low carbon fuel standard from california is being emulated across the united states.
it is very important to see the fuel directive in the context of the whole climate package.
first of all, the report by claude turmes is of course of interest in this context: the renewable energy directive.
we share the sustainability criteria, and i believe that sustainability criteria have made a very significant contribution worldwide.
in the context of the climate package, it is also very important to move on to the next report, the sacconi report on new passenger cars.
i hope that with these elements of the transport climate package we will at least make a good contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
these agreements should have already achieved a substantial reduction in emissions.
the average co2 emissions of cars are not much different from those of ten years ago.
what is ultimately at stake is a sustainable solution.
it is bad for road safety and the environment if motorists can conclude that in a foreign country they can break all the rules with impunity.
the chaotic period under president yeltsin in the 1990s created the climate for a return to a strong central state authority without much room for opposition or critical investigative journalism.