the european commission granted poland an emission allowance of only 208 million tonnes of carbon dioxide for the years 2008-2012, almost 30% less than the polish government had requested.
it is expected to fall by about 10% this year and by 20% in four years, as emissions reductions have also affected the electricity generation industry to a significant extent.
such a limitation of emissions, an unfair distribution of the burden of emissions, will not only delay the development of newly admitted countries to the union, such as poland, but will also place a significant burden on the cost of living of their citizens.
in line with the principles of better law, proper impact assessment, the principle of cost-benefit optimisation should always be taken into account in the creation of a competitive legal environment for the automotive industry.
it contains important comments on the rehabilitation and integration into the work environment of persons returning to work after an accident, as well as the requirement of non-discrimination in access to employment for persons with cancer.
this variation is both territorial and environmental, as more occupational accidents and diseases occur in groups such as migrants, young workers and older workers, regardless of the country.
they are also becoming increasingly important in the context of ongoing climate change.
as this is also closely linked to the development that we are seeing in the discussions on climate change, i think that this information is also valid and important.
− the rapporteur, johannes blokland, rightly points out that appropriate regulations should be introduced at international and european level to enhance the protection of the environment and public health.
the development of specific infrastructure in less developed countries will strongly oppose the irresponsible use of chemicals that can have harmful effects on the environment, the economy and working conditions.
i am glad that energy policy will also be one of slovenia's priorities.
we know very well that europe will not be secure if we do not ensure our energy security.
the objectives you have set for yourself as president include the treaty, strategy, climate, energy, the western balkans, and if we add intercultural dialogue, it will be quite a lot for this small country, after the huge success of which i congratulate you and the entire slovenian people.
the priorities for the first half of 2008 largely reflect the continuation of the work of the previous ones, in particular in terms of reviving the lisbon agenda, ratifying the new treaty and combating climate change.
we also hope that a country that has been struggling to transform and adapt to eu standards will show understanding for the problems that the new member states face with their excessive commitments to renewable energy and greenhouse gas emissions.
a balance must be struck between environmental concerns and the need to boost the competitiveness of the european economy on a global scale.
with regard to the use of nuclear energy, the presidency firmly believes that the decision to introduce, continue to use and possibly increase the use of nuclear energy is entirely a matter for the member states and this line will be consistently followed by the presidency.
slovenia, as is known, is one of the countries using nuclear energy, and there is a possibility, but no decision, that this energy use is increasing or that slovenia will also resort to it in the future.
i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology, which are very important for the future of the union.
we are discussing today the situation in a region of particular importance to the european union as a whole, a region of great importance for the energy security of the european union.
i say this in the context of the political and even military conflict between georgia and russia over ossetia and abkhazia, which threatens us all - the whole of europe - but yerevan, baku and tbilisi are also important for the union's energy policy, the diversification of energy sources.
madam president, the rapporteur on the black sea regional policy reminds us that the european union supports new energy infrastructure and viable transport corridors, diversifying both suppliers and routes.
both may disturb the fragile ecological balance of sensitive marine environments.
south stream goes against the principle of energy security in europe, based on diverse sources and routes.
firstly, it is a huge area of energy production and transmission, which is of great importance for the diversification and security of supply of energy resources to the union.
however, support is needed for projects to transport energy resources from this area not only to the south of europe, as is the case so far, but also to the north to ukraine and poland and further west.
the european union's involvement in the black sea must therefore be free from unnecessary institutionalisation, political influence and restrictions which threaten to weaken the conditions for rational cooperation and even destabilise the region, both in terms of security and the functioning of the transport network, environmental protection, etc.
additional favourable conditions should also be created for the black sea to be more closely involved in the process of diversifying energy supply routes, with possible consideration of new sources, especially from the so-called caspian direction.
− i am against the creation of a european agency for fundamental rights, which is why i did not support the agency's multiannual framework for 2007-2012. i believe that the proposal to create it and give it powers is not only a waste of money but also a dangerous political initiative whose long-term effects will be harmful to the member states of the union.
i quote: 'efforts to combat climate change are ultimately futile and contribute to the misallocation of funds that could be used to address more pressing human problems.'
ladies and gentlemen, there is no scientific evidence that we are able to reverse the cyclical climate change that depends on changing solar activity and has been known to scientists for at least 10,000 years from ice sheet studies.
– today’s debate creates a new favourable environment to encourage a wider social debate on the role nuclear energy will play in europe in the future.
nuclear generation is a proven and efficient way of producing electrical energy free of greenhouse gas emissions.
we should be honest and admit that there is a limit to how much energy we can generate from renewable sources and still maintain competitive energy prices.
while ccs schemes will reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels, the technologies are still to be implemented on an industrial scale.
a responsible approach to tackling the challenge of climate change requires a balance – a mix of economically viable renewable technologies, ccs systems and modern nuclear technologies.
climate change and tackling environmental degradation were at the top of the european union's agenda in 2007. the european commission's proposals are the concrete expression of the ambitious goals set out in march last year.
they reflect the leading role of the community of 27 in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
western democracies have been sensitive to environmental issues for decades.
the result was ecological standards worthy of imitation on other continents.
the former gdr countries, on the other hand, have been the scene of rapid industrialisation, in particular the development of the potential of metallurgy, heavy chemicals and other industries that degrade the environment.
the problem of finding a balance between environmental requirements, competitiveness and job protection concerns the whole of the european union, but it has a special dimension in the case of countries that are catching up!
the current version of the project is a broad compromise and it appears that the main objectives of the proposal have been achieved, namely the full realisation of the internal market for postal services mainly by abolishing the monopoly in the postal sector and at the same time providing a universal service of higher quality and lower prices in a sustainable manner.
climate change has been with mankind throughout history.
the european commission seems to be completely blind to this aspect of the matter and instead of taking action to mitigate the effects of climate change, it wants to tackle the non-human causes of this phenomenon.
such a drastic reduction in co2 emissions would cause a serious economic collapse in countries like poland, which generates most of its energy from coal.
i remind you that just because of the pointless trips to strasbourg for sessions, over 20,000 tons of carbon dioxide are emitted into the atmosphere every year.
the bali climate conference was a test of whether there was any chance of global cooperation in the fight against climate change.
the european union has made climate change a priority.
poland is a country where 96% of electricity comes from burning coal, so adapting our energy industry by 2020 could be an unbearable burden.
as far as reducing emissions is concerned, i believe that a policy of diversification is not the only way to prevent them.
the technology of carbon-free combustion is of interest, as it allows for the reduction of gas emissions.
assuming that detailed strategies are planned for the construction of a nuclear power plant covering all issues related to its subsequent operation, it is one of the cleanest sources of energy.
the proposed energy and climate package for the european union is a complex organisational and legislative plan to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions.
the commission's ambitious plans are based on the assumption that climate change, which is undoubtedly a fact, is the result of the impact of co2 emissions, and this has not been proven or supported in bali.
so, commissioner, first of all, we need more reliable data on the climate impact of co2 emissions, which is a gas that is, after all, a necessary substrate for photosynthesis.
and thirdly, and most importantly, the commission has omitted in its energy and climate plans the main conclusion of the bali conference on the adaptation of societies to the inevitable climate change, i.e.
the eu's climate change action in europe should be primarily directed towards these objectives.
i am surprised to hear that the term sustainable development has not been mentioned once in this debate.
the term was in vogue and even abused in the early 1990's, when nations agreed at the 1992 rio de janeiro conference to protect the environment in a reasonable way when exploiting it.
sustainability is not an outdated term, it's not a passing fad of politicians and environmentalists.
this term is trying to reconcile the interests of the huge lobby, the environmental lobby that represents us, with the industrial lobby.
so let's look at the effects that bali has had from this old principle of sustainability, not just on a european scale, but on an international scale.
let's protect our planet from climate change, but not at the expense of our industry.
it will be much cheaper than continually pressuring industry to make new, ever-more drastic cuts in emissions.
the efficiency of primary energy use depends on improving the efficiency of primary energy conversion into electricity, introducing minimum end-use energy standards, extensively performing thermal retrofits of buildings, extensively applying cogeneration by removing administrative barriers, reducing energy transmission losses, reducing friction losses.
the report also recognises the global dimension of the problem, including the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
housing consumes about 40% of total energy used, and thermal retrofit means reducing its use by at least half, which is 20% of total energy used.
in total, therefore, the potential primary energy savings from the known technologies alone, i.e.
another aspect of the global dimension of the issue is the development of common environmental performance standards both within the european union and with its partners.
homo sapiens has so far caused severe degradation of the environment, of which he is the most important element.
it's very much energy-based.
in this context, i welcome mrs hall's report on the rational use of energy.
the highest standards of energy efficiency and thermal insulation must be applied not only to new buildings but also to refurbished buildings.
another issue is the use of led-based lighting, which is energy-efficient and durable.
many household appliances can also use much less energy during operation.
this also applies to waste through standby.
i support tax incentives to promote rational energy use.
i also want to emphasize the importance of energy education for the public, starting with children.
the most important issue facing europe today is energy and its climate impact.
but if it's that important, it has to be accompanied by adequate funding for energy-related issues.
i therefore ask the question: are we prepared to spend the common european money on research, technology, innovation and also on energy implementation?
energy efficiency, the efficiency we're talking about here, is the most important thing in energy, even more important than renewable energy or clean coal.
mr president, commissioner, in the debate on the rationalisation of energy consumption, while agreeing with the main points made by the author of the report, ms fiona hall, i would like to draw attention to issues of particular importance to the new member states.
this pace of development will mean a significant increase in co2 emissions, which has not been taken into account in the european commission's recent proposals for the so-called climate and energy package.
2.the proposals put forward by the ec are clearly geared towards reducing the use of coal, which is particularly harmful in economies such as poland, where, for example, energy is based mainly on the burning of different types of coal.
the proposal that the energy sector should buy all its co2 emission rights at auction as from 2013 will cause a sharp increase in energy prices, which will be particularly felt by households.
even now, when the polish energy sector is buying only 10% of the emission rights at auction, the price of electricity will increase by about 15% in 2007 and by an additional 20 - 30% in the next few years.
as a matter of fact, this report comes at a time where all initiatives aiming at reinforcing concrete actions for greater energy efficiency should be warmly welcomed.
energy efficiency is indeed the most effective objective providing already available technological tools for genuinely and rapidly addressing the challenges of global warming and limited fossil resources.
we are now embarked plan to cut energy consumption and it is essential that we reach our goals on schedule.
it is essential that the energy efficiency targets will not simply worsen the situation of the weakest economies and industries in the poorest member states.
of course in the long run there is indeed huge cost-effective potential of energy conservation and stronger energy efficiency policy would very likely benefit the job market in the union.
the amount of discards, which the rapporteur estimates can represent up to a quarter of the fish catch, is a serious environmental and economic problem.
the scale of the phenomenon indicates a huge waste of resources and a serious disruption of biodiversity resulting from inappropriate human intervention.
moreover, if we want europe to meet the new challenges of competition in the economy and environmental protection, we must call on, and even encourage, the member states to increase their spending on scientific research systematically.
we discussed this issue at a special meeting and, by joining the european union, poland accepted the obligation to respect the law in force in the union, especially that which has direct effects on the internal legal environment of a member state, and i call on this occasion for the swift unification of legislation relating to the status of members of the sejm and the european parliament, since the same act may result in the automatic loss of the mandate of a member of the european parliament, whereas a polish member of parliament is not punished in this way for such an act.
second, the opening of the union market to goods and services from third countries should be done on a reciprocal basis, with the union ensuring that third country exporters include in their manufacturing costs the costs of complying with environmental standards and social security for workers in their own countries.
too often, the promotion of exports and the possibility of investment in countries is presented without considering whether they respect the principles of democracy, human rights, environmental requirements, wages and social protection.
i am, however, not sufficiently ambitious to embrace straight away my friend mr schlyter’s proposal of moving from my inability to propose consensual reforms of trade defence instruments against the low cost of production dumping to a new concept of organic or ecological dumping.
i therefore fully support the harmonisation of council regulation (eec) no 1210/90 of 7 may 1990 establishing a european environment agency and a european environment information and observation network.
this is an environmentally dangerous project, but also a political one, turning its back on the eu's energy programmes.
and finally, i congratulate you, mr. prime minister, on your very strong words regarding the baltic sea, for the ecological protection of this sea.
and finally, prime minister, you spoke about energy and climate change as the top priority of the swedish presidency.
if we don't change our budget to become, also financially, at least somewhat responsible for climate change, for adaptation, for broadly low-carbon technologies, then we're really just going to be on the back burner, we're not going to be delivering on our top priority.
the report concludes that the tax burden on labour should be shifted to environmental protection.
but europe is only an island on the world map, and to introduce even the most desirable changes, such as those affecting the climate, without the major world powers pursuing similar objectives will only be to limit the capacity of our industry and our production and thus to frustrate the other objectives of this strategy.
today, new challenges and issues such as environmental protection, climate change and renewable energy are emerging on the horizon of european integration.
sustainable growth and employment must be understood in a broad sense, not only in strictly economic terms but also in social, cultural and environmental terms.
another aspect i would like to stress is the importance of the process of liberalising the energy market.
the continued upward trend in energy prices and the accumulation of climate risks mean that it is important to continue to promote energy efficiency in a broad sense.
renewable energy, clean coal technology, nuclear energy, sustainable suppliers, european infrastructure are the main challenges we will face in the coming years.
i am convinced that the greatest impact on the implementation of the lisbon strategy today is the problem of combating climate change.
and i fully share the view of the vice-president that the current strategy of the european union in this area is to export pollution and emissions and import unemployment.
we must make climate action a source of growth and competitiveness.
energy security is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges facing the european union in the 21st century.
this security can only be achieved by diversifying the supply of energy resources, so as to make the member states of the european union independent of companies controlled by the russian special services.
it would seem that there is a mutual interest in this matter on the one hand, the european union countries, which want to secure other sources of energy supply on the other hand, the central asian countries, which would like to sell their raw materials more expensive.
secondly, i would like to stress the importance of partnership in the field of energy policy.
further strengthening cooperation between central asia and the black sea region in the fields of energy and transportation is essential for the accomplishment of the eu’s goals.
we should support all efforts to bring the countries of central asia closer to europe, especially as they can play a vital role in ensuring europe's energy security.
it should be a priority interest of the union to deepen cooperation with the region in areas such as energy, trade, education, infrastructure, security and regional integration.
you are talking today about a common energy policy.
why is there no public outrage against the pipeline that germany and russia are running over the heads of poland, lithuania and estonia through the baltic to give russia the ability to cut off energy supplies to these countries?
- i supported mr ozdemir's report because one of europe's most pressing political problems is to ensure the eu's energy security.
diversifying the supply of energy resources to the eu is the only solution to independence from russia, and here the eu's common policy towards central asia is the key solution.
he said: "i would like to convey that the sentiment, the joy, that you spread so respectfully on the streets over the last days now has to be converted into positive and constructive energy in order to move society forward.
that is to say, we too want, i think we all want, for the most part, that our friends in kosovo are prepared to convert or transform the energy that they have shown these days into a rational activity that will ensure a proper european future for kosovo.
only societies that put children at the centre of their policies and create a family-friendly environment are able to counter the adverse effects of demographic change.
a sustainable but dynamic regional policy is needed for the next financial perspective.
cohesion policy, which aims at equitable and sustainable development, is an important objective in itself.
in this context, its regional and local aspects are important (as mrs staniszewska has already mentioned) as well as its ecological aspects.
the continuation of the lisbon strategy, climate change, changes in energy policy, and the recognition of the consequences of migration processes are all new challenges for the european union and call for action to reduce new development disparities.
one of the main challenges for the union's development is the over-development of urban areas, energy consumption, transport and demographic changes, such as the depopulation of certain areas of the union and the widening gap between rich and less affluent areas.
an integrated development policy, focusing on infrastructure modernisation, energy efficiency and the introduction of green and affordable public transport, will provide one of the ways to ensure continuity in this sector.
the building of cohesion and the equalization of opportunities, cannot be subordinated to other policies, which should have their own budget lines, such as competitiveness or combating climate change.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the need to reduce the environmental and energy impacts of transport must of course be the subject of a broad consensus between parliament, the council and the commission.
how can this sustainable mobility be achieved?
this is a huge challenge, and by 2020, we need to achieve a 20 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a 20 percent reduction in energy consumption, and a 20 percent increase in renewable energy in our energy consumption.
and then i will also mention the recent proposal for a directive on clean vehicles, which the committee on the environment will be starting to work on.
the external costs are heavy for our economy and our environment - air pollution, noise, congestion - which is also a negative factor for transport mobility.
if we want sustainable mobility, we must ensure that the external costs of transport are integrated into what users pay.
by proposing in 2006 to include aviation in the european emissions trading system, we took a step towards internalising external costs in the aviation sector.
this revision will allow member states to include not only infrastructure costs in tolls, as is the case today, but also external environmental costs, if they so wish, which is not possible today, except in very limited cases.
in short, we are moving towards smart tolls, educational tolls, which will make it possible to punish more those lorries which have the worst environmental standards or which use the main routes during periods of congestion and congestion.
initiatives to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from the aviation sector and noise around airports are planned.
urban transport, of course, must also be part of this effort: 40% of co2 emissions and 70% of other pollutant emissions come from vehicles in urban environments.
there is a great deal of convergence between parliament and the commission on sustainable mobility and i would like to thank parliament and mr albertini very much for this excellent work, which also gives a great deal of insight into our own work at the commission.
the draft resolution on a european sustainable transport policy, taking account of european energy and environmental policies, is an attempt to take a comprehensive approach to the urgent transport issue.
the second problem that needs to be addressed quickly is congestion in large urban areas, the concentration of emissions in cities and in so-called inter-city transport corridors.
there are many more problems, from technical issues, energy issues, price management, to knowledge and public behavior.
mr albertini's report takes account of all the decisive elements of a sustainable transport policy, taking into account environmental protection and energy policy.
transport consumes over 30% of energy, and this consumption is expected to increase by 30% in 20 years.
the sector consumes 70% of oil and in cities and urban agglomerations generates 40% of co2 and 70% of emissions of other harmful compounds.
the rapporteur supports technological innovation and other measures to save energy.
the most environmentally and economically beneficial energy in the face of the sharp rise in oil prices is electricity, which should play a greater role in transport, including urban transport, for example by building cheap electric city cars.
the increase in demand for this energy should be met by the latest generation of nuclear power plants with no harmful emissions.
that's a small amount, especially given that last year, as well as this year, we've been dealing with a rise in climate disasters.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the annual policy strategy paper is dramatically silent on one of the most vital issues for europe’s future: external energy security policy.
our house, by an overwhelming majority, adopted the report recognising the need for an urgent energy supply security policy.
europe needs its common energy security policy now.
they also confirm the willingness of european research communities to create communities focused on start-ups in three sectors: renewable energy, climate change and information technologies.
- amendment 1 to the vote a6-0014/2008 sustainable european transport policy put forward by the ppe-de group raised a legitimate concern for me and for the entire transport community.
the adoption of this amendment would be a negative signal from the european parliament and is contrary to the report of the ep environment committee of 28 january 2008. that is why i voted against the amendment and against the whole report.
if you are in favour of the sustainable development of eu agriculture and the defence of the interests of family farms rather than the interests of a small group of entrepreneurs, you should reject this report, otherwise you will suffer further rural depopulation, high unemployment, loss of food security in the union, discrimination against new member states and processes that threaten the environment.
we pay a lot of money for energy security.
we look for more expensive but safe energy supplies.
the introduction of modulation in the new member states should be adopted only after full payments have been received and should be phased in as it has been done in the other member states of the 15. i can't agree to the removal of the energy subsidies and subsidies that we just got.
i share the rapporteur's view that the commission should prepare a detailed report on issues such as the additional costs incurred by farmers for complying with community standards on environmental protection, animal welfare and food safety.
the common agricultural policy must evolve to meet new challenges such as climate change, growing energy demand, a growing world population and increased openness to global markets.
topleader programmes can help women from only some regions (tourist attractions or known for their unique regional products) which will not even partially compensate for the losses suffered by the rural population who still await the implementation of the summit documents' keywords of sustainable development, equal opportunities and non-discrimination in all its forms.
in the current world situation, with oil and other energy sources such as gas prices rising rapidly or undergoing unpredictable fluctuations that make it difficult to rationally plan and cost investments, and with the energy needs of european countries also increasing, the biogas report seems to be a very necessary document.
this report shows how much we can still do to develop this branch of energy production.
after all, many times more energy can be produced from these sources without degrading the environment.
it is also necessary that the commission and the governments of the individual countries take special care of the producers of this type of energy and support this development through specific financial incentive mechanisms.
i therefore fully support the rapporteur's view that the european commission should step up its efforts to promote the development of energy from renewable sources and include it in europe's energy strategy.
it is particularly important for us europeans that the european union, by increasing its diversification, becomes energy independent of exports as soon as possible.
it would also be a step towards sustainable agriculture by eliminating a lot of plant and animal waste, manure, sewage sludge and renewable energy.
it is unprofitable at current production and selling prices and still leaves waste, but more concentrated.
perhaps other technologies will allow production processes to be modernized, and rising energy prices will make it more economically efficient.
but the environmental achievements are undeniable, and that's the most important thing.
the report by mr sándor tabajdi tackles a problem of great importance for farmers, the economy and the environment.
the recycling of manure, waste and municipal waste from biogas production has a positive impact on the environment.
the union institutions should take action in this area, such as: improving the functioning of legal and economic rules to stimulate the development of biofuels production; accelerating the research programme related to the improvement of biofuel production technology, including from biomass, organic waste, sewage and manure; implementing a programme of information dissemination and promotion of good practices achieved by german, belgian or danish farmers.
the role of gas is important firstly in diversifying gas supplies, secondly in combating climate change, and thirdly in improving the environment and thus in protecting it.
additionally, consider that biogas is produced from household waste, organic waste, manure and manure.
biogas is a very important source of renewable energy.
it can be used to generate energy, it's a good heat source, it can also be used to power a car.
i support this report, first of all because it concerns the common energy policy and in particular the common foreign energy policy.
there is another reason, and for me it is even more important: we leave the choice of primary energy sources (energy mix) to the member states, while reducing co2 emissions and creating a common energy market.
they are needed by investors, particularly private investors, if we are to have an effective energy market policy.
we will also be able to compare data from different member states on different prices and costs, which is impossible with today's statistics, especially because of the lack of data on renewable energy sources.
energy security should of course be one of the main elements of the european union's energy policy.
energy security cannot be achieved unless we act in concert with others, unless the european union speaks with one voice.
as regards the fight against climate change - and i am thinking here of carbon dioxide - we would like to see the costs of this fight not be disproportionately burdened on the economies of the new member states, because that would be throwing a baby out with a bathtub.
eight years ago, the lisbon strategy set out the objectives of making europe a priority for growth faster than the united states, while ensuring sustainable employment growth.
the forthcoming council will be discussing projects relating to the internal market in energy and gas.
the division of energy and transmission ownership is a matter of critical importance no matter who sits in the kremlin.
medvedev's russia will not change its policy of energy blackmailing our neighbours, as well as the member states.
saving energy and increasing the share of renewable energy in our balance sheets is only part of the answer to these problems.
the full implementation of the european energy policy must take into account the political aspect.
this russian monopoly is present in 16 eu countries as an energy supplier or transmission network owner.
if we do not put a limit on this aggressive monopoly, we can put the energy solidarity clauses of the lisbon treaty in the fairy tale.
global warming will trigger a dangerous contest over energy resources.
farming is not just about production, but also about maintaining the landscape, about the environment.
the eu's agricultural policy aims to ensure real sustainable development of rural areas, giving people, including women, an extra chance to better exploit their potential.
- i vote in favour of the report on sustainable agriculture and biogas: the need to review eu legislation (2007/2107 (ini)).
the rapporteur, mr sándor tabajdi, rightly pointed out that the energy potential of biogas, which is similar to and can replace natural gas, should be exploited.
- i vote in favour of the report by mr csaba, sándor tabajdi, on sustainable agriculture and biogas: a review of community legislation.
i believe that there are important economic and environmental reasons for supporting the european parliament's motion for a resolution on sustainable agriculture and biogas, especially as this entails the need to look more closely at the european union's legislation on this issue.
this would be a milestone towards the european commission's white paper target of increasing renewable energy from 6% in 1995 to 12% by 2010. the potential of biogas produced from natural materials such as animal manure is still not fully exploited.
meanwhile, intensifying its production would not only reduce carbon emissions but also increase competitiveness by opening up new income opportunities for farmers.
it should be borne in mind that this is one of the cheapest sources of heating energy, which would greatly help the countries of the union to become independent of natural gas supplies.
according to our last assessment this is unfortunately not yet sustainable.
we are rightly concerned about ensuring a good quality of life as well as the financial sustainability of health and social care for the elderly.
the reduction of fuel tourism would not only ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for the hauliers, but would reduce the extra kilometres and consequently the extra greenhouse gas emissions, which are detrimental to the environment.
i should stress that, during the council discussions, a large number of member states have underlined the positive effect of the commission proposal on the environment, particularly on climate change and global warming and the proper functioning of the internal market.
the commission is opposed to any suggestion that would undermine finding a long-term solution to the problem of fuel tourism – which is detrimental to the environment – and to the distortions of competition in the internal market.
the commission can accept in principle amendments 7 and 27 supporting the objective of reducing co2 emissions.
in conclusion, i sincerely hope that parliament can deliver a supportive opinion on the commission proposal sending a positive signal to the council to give a response to the concerns of member states having problems with fuel tourism and, at the same time, achieving environmental objectives.
the commission's proposal to raise the minimum rates of excise duty on motor fuels aims to reduce excessive fuel consumption in transport and thus reduce environmental pollution.
such solutions would encourage the use of renewable fuels.
this would reduce co2 emissions and meet environmental commitments.
this is a very good sign from the european union in the first place, i am talking about the willingness to support developing countries and also to fight climate change.
we are responsible for the upcoming climate change conferences in poznan and copenhagen, and it is up to us to negotiate the kyoto protocol and it is up to us to send signals to the world.
it is good that the author of the report recognises that the most serious consequences of climate change will be felt by the poorest countries, since they have limited capacity, particularly financial, to respond to them.
thirdly, and lastly, i would like to point out that the burden of climate change prevention is very unfairly distributed within the european union itself, e.g.
the fund is intended to support energy efficiency, energy saving, the development of renewable energy, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the improvement of access to basic energy services.
union action in this area should help poor regions to combat climate change and help diversify energy sources.
let us remember that the effects of climate change will affect the world's poorest people first.
it would be a mistake to limit our efforts to tackling climate change and reducing energy consumption to our own area.
i wanted to point out that, among renewable energy sources, we pay little attention to geothermal energy, or clean energy.
renewable energy and energy efficiency are measures to limit the rise in global average temperatures.
studies and reports show that it is the poorest communities and their poorest citizens who will be most affected by the adverse effects of climate change.
renewable energy sources make a significant contribution to, inter alia, raising environmental standards by reducing emissions of co2 and other greenhouse gases, increasing employment and reducing costs.
the reduction of energy dependency is also a relevant argument, while the number of people without basic energy services will increase, which is particularly relevant in the process of shaping the economy of developing countries.
these countries are largely experiencing a period of economic growth and, consequently, the energy demand in these areas is high.
the development of renewable energy in developing countries is of great importance for efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and for security of supply in countries that meet only part of their own energy needs.
the union should therefore promote renewable energy and energy efficiency, particularly in developing countries, as they are crucial elements of energy and climate change strategy and development policy.
i think about peace and security, migration, climate change, food security.
russia's willingness to use energy resources for political blackmail discourages the union from opposing the kremlin's shameful and undemocratic practices.
equal opportunities and equal access for women and men to resources and to participation in public life are crucial not only outside the eu but also in the context of sustainable development.
the agreements signed between the union and russia concern not only enhanced cooperation in the fields of economy, security and energy, but also respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental human rights.
judging by the current political climate in afghanistan, it will be more difficult to secure the safe release of mr kambakhsh if the afghan authorities are given the impression that they are caving in to international pressure.
it is also worth mentioning the scandalous energy deal between switzerland and iran.
the economic growth in croatia and the reforms in the environmental sector are further achievements of the croatian government in support of the accession process.
in its mid-term review, the commission concluded that the european union is on track overall in adopting the measures for the 6th environment action programme.
without effective implementation - as was stressed tonight - of environmental policy, we will certainly not achieve the environmental objectives set out in the sixth environment action programme, however well the legislation has been prepared by the european institutions.
the commission also shares the view of parliament that it is vital to integrate environmental issues into other policies.
as the report stressed, this integration is essential for trade policies, as the european union has very important economic links with the rest of the world, and trade has a clear environmental impact.
the impact assessment procedure, which the commission has also introduced, is designed to improve the coherence of community policies and includes taking account of the environmental aspects of our proposals.
the commission would welcome the support of the european parliament to ensure that environmental aspects are fully taken into account in the consideration of proposals by the other institutions.
finally, the report highlights the vital role of national, regional and local authorities, as well as citizens, consumers and businesses, in achieving the environmental objectives set out in the european union's 6th environment action programme.
i am sure that parliament will help in these efforts and i hope that the protection of the european environment will be one of the main issues of concern to voters in next year's elections.
as a member of the envi committee, i believe that it is a good thing that the sixth environmental action programme is being adopted in accordance with article 251 of the ec treaty, i.e.
the protection of the environment is of paramount importance to the ep, which represents almost 500 million europeans.
the thematic strategies provided for in the programme have increased stakeholder involvement and developed the environmental policy dimension, but have also delayed or lengthened the legislative process in this area.
climate change).
but on the other hand, it is important to remember that the sixth action programme encourages the promotion of sustainable production methods and consumption patterns through taxation.
failure to do so would damage the eu's credibility and those of its members who are genuinely concerned about the deteriorating state of the environment.
let me also thank the chairwoman of the committee on industry, research and energy, ms niebler, and the shadow rapporteurs, ms laperrouze and mr březina, for their constructive help.
through a bottom-up approach, this research fund is intended exclusively to fund research projects in the sectors related to the coal and steel industries, two major traditional sectors where research is still needed: firstly, to comply with current eu policies on environmental standards to combat global climate change and, secondly, to maintain energy security of supply by having a fuel mix that meets european demand.
this proposed revision looked to further the positive results achieved during the first five years of the research fund for coal and steel research programme, notably in terms of environmental protection.
coal, coal is energy security.
− mr president, i appreciate the comments which support the proposal as much as i appreciate also the comments which called for a view of how we will approach energy and climate change solutions in the future.
i believe that it is better that this money is used for research and development rather than for anything else, because it is true that in energy and climate change there is no room for complacency.
so the real questions, and the real debate about the issues which you opened today, will come when we discuss the strategy for the energy technology plan – how to approach this, how to act in the future, and how to find the right answers.
do not forget that the financing of energy in 1980 was approximately four times higher in europe than it is today.
i can only take one view of the matter raised here, namely that the mines should be closed as soon as possible for ecological reasons.
i think that energy security in my country, for example, in the czech republic and in many other countries of the union contradicts this view and this view is not generally accepted.
coal will remain an important and competitive source of energy in europe for a long time to come.
we must also not forget - and here i am addressing those who would like to close all the mines - that coal is not only an important energy resource but also a chemical resource.
fourthly, the exclusion of bituminous shale from the programme of the research fund for coal and steel, as proposed by the greens in this amendment, would be detrimental to estonia, whose energy sector is based mainly on this fuel.
poland is therefore particularly interested in new coal technologies that will increase the efficiency of power plants, reduce co2 emissions and enable the conversion of coal into hydrocarbon fuels with reduced co2 emissions.
it can also make a significant contribution to the acceptance of nuclear energy in europe by working directly with the coal industry, seeking to modernise it rather than competing with it.
given the importance of coal in the polish energy sector, it seems reasonable that such a european hub should be established in poland.
- the mr president, i thank you for the opportunity to refer to the commission's work in progress on the development of the framework we need for adaptation to climate change in europe - but also in the rest of the world - particularly in the very poor countries, which, while not having contributed to the greenhouse effect, will nevertheless be the ones to suffer the most adverse consequences.
following the green paper on adaptation to climate change, adopted in june 2007, the commission is preparing, as mr sacconi said, the white paper to be published in autumn 2008. the main objective of the white paper is to provide the european union with an ambitious and effective strategy to limit the effects of unavoidable climate change.
a change that has already happened and will happen in the coming years, regardless of the measures to limit carbon dioxide emissions that i hope we will take and for which i hope we will have an agreement in copenhagen in 2009. the european union also has a leading role and will continue to play it in international initiatives on adaptation - initiatives developed under the united nations international treaty.
the commission has meanwhile continued its cooperation with the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other scientific bodies active in research in relevant fields in order to find the most appropriate ways for the international community to address the challenges identified in recent reports.
i will mention in particular the need to derive maximum benefits from the synergy between efforts to reduce emissions and adaptation, the need to strengthen research and further scientific information collection, the protection of ecosystems, the analysis and evaluation of current and future funding mechanisms.
we must remember that the effects of climate change outside europe, in asia, africa and oceania, are enormous and cannot be compared to what we are experiencing here on the european continent.
second, we need to develop technologies, ways of adaptation that are related to mitigation and adaptation, to adapt to what's happening to the climate today.
because the key political challenge that the european union faces is negotiating post-kyoto, because it is much cheaper to prevent climate change, to counteract climate change, than to adapt to it.
we've already seen this if we go to countries in asia, countries in africa, islands in oceania, and so that's what we're aiming for: for the whole world to decide to take action on climate change.
our priority today is to fight climate change, and to also address climate change.
the union's energy policy is linked to this.
climate change is indeed one of the most important problems facing humanity today.
but climate change, contrary to what we're told, is a change that man cannot significantly alter.
these are natural cycles linked to solar activity, phenomena that occur in the earth's crust, and there is no scientific evidence, commissioner, no substantial scientific evidence, other than the quasi-religion you are trying to create, that a radical reduction in carbon emissions, which is only possible in europe, will have a significant impact on the reduction of climate change.
and if it's true, as i say, if we spend a huge, unimaginable amount of money on reducing carbon emissions, and india, china, the united states don't get behind us, that money will be wasted, and could be used for a lot of other things, like providing europeans everywhere with clean water, reducing pollution, eliminating poisonous gases, oxides, nitrogen, sulphur, fluoride and so on.
i'm not saying that climate change isn't happening and that we shouldn't be doing austerity.
what i'm saying is that it's a mythology, a philosophy that's being adopted here, that the main problem is the emission of carbon dioxide as a key greenhouse gas on a scale that human intervention can change, by altering or limiting the potential for global warming.
commissioner, there are very serious studies at the moment, there are documents signed by several hundred climate scientists who question this type of solution.
we must link climate action to reducing the adverse effects on our global markets, especially the sharp rise in the price of gas and oil, of which we are the largest importer.
therefore, the accepted thesis of a dangerous greenhouse effect as a result of increased co2 emissions should be confronted with the opposite opinion of a large number of scientists.
it is a fact that co2 emissions are accompanied by nitrogen compounds, sulphur, and micropollutants harmful to the environment and the health of citizens, especially in growing urban areas.
economic and environmental considerations require that industry policies focus on priorities such as: reducing the demand for hydrocarbon fuels, the use of renewable energy, biofuels and the promotion of nuclear energy, the use of coal resources in chemical processing, not only in power plants, the use of electric vehicles in transport and communications.
despite the need to gradually replace coal with renewable and more environmentally friendly fuels, it will remain the main source of energy and wealth for many regions of the european union for many years to come.
climate change is a challenge for many sectors of the economy, but it also threatens europe's biodiversity and disrupts social development.
the effects of climate change can only be prevented by reducing greenhouse gas emissions at regional, local, and all sectors of the economy and all walks of life.
the european union should build a global alliance, especially with developing countries they are also increasingly responsible for the accumulation of greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and its implementation in the context of the union's climate and energy policy.
as has been rightly emphasised, increased competitiveness of coal in the energy market depends on the efficient use of regional resources, which will have a disproportionate impact on the increase of energy security in the eu.
in line with the council's guidelines, the research fund for coal and steel was reviewed this year after five years of operation in terms of energy efficiency and environmental protection.
the fund will also allow for a better use of coal in the energy market, which will make a significant contribution to the eu's energy security, bearing in mind that the extraction of this raw material requires a succession of exploratory studies.
in addition to its direct contribution to the economy, the cultural and creative sectors have an indirect impact on the european socio-economic environment and contribute to the development of information and communication technologies.
finally, thirdly, the prevention of climate change, which is one of the priorities of the 2009 budget, imposes additional burdens on the economies of the member states, unfortunately without taking into account the delay in their development.
the next item is the report by mr adamou, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on organ donation and transplantation: policy action at eu level (2007/2210 (ini)) (a6-0090/2008).
the vote will take place on tuesday 22 april 2008.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the sinking of the new flame freighter and the pollution of the gulf of algeciras.
add to this the supply-side problems caused by the consequences of climate change and we have, in part, the recipe for the current crisis.
finally, i would like to point out that the commission will continue to monitor this situation very closely and is prepared, on the basis of changing needs, to consider additional emissions if necessary.
on the supply side, price increases are mainly due to crop failures, including the effects of climate change, and to reductions in stocks, especially cereals, and to increases in production costs.
this is why, in the council of the european union, we are working within the framework of the working groups set up specifically for this purpose to develop clear sustainability criteria that will allow the sustainable production of biofuels with the least possible impact on factors such as food prices.
recent reforms of the cap have been aimed at making european agriculture more sustainable and market-oriented.
the review of the common agricultural policy also proposed the permanent repeal of this obligation and the abolition of the premiums for energy crops.
these would use as raw materials by-products such as straw, shavings, waste in general.
the slovenian presidency will participate in the international conference on food security and the challenges of climate change and bioenergy, which will take place in rome in early june under the auspices of the fao.
food security, alongside physical security and energy security, is a fundamental pillar of security, important both for nations and states and for each individual.
the rise in world food prices is the result of rising production costs, rising energy costs, rising fuel costs, rising fertilizer costs, rising labor costs.
the second reason, the second of the reasons, is also the higher cost of production, partly due to higher energy prices.
climate change is certainly one of the reasons.
the european union is looking for answers here, and it is looking for them in the direction indicated by the climate and energy package that is being negotiated and for which the presidency has set itself the firm objective of moving towards an agreement by the end of this year.
the ad hoc working group, which was recently set up on the initiative of the slovenian presidency, has therefore been given the main task of developing sustainability criteria for biofuel production.
these are criteria to ensure that biofuel production does not supplant food production, that it takes into account the social aspects and impacts of biofuel production and that it ensures the conservation of biodiversity.
the pensioners are hit hardest by the rising food prices as well as the galloping energy increases.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs barsi-pataky on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the further implementation of the european satellite radio navigation programmes (egnos and galileo) (com (2007) 0535 - c6-0345/2007 - 2004/0156 (cod)) (a6-0144/2008).
it's china's growing demand for natural resources and energy that makes sudan, angola and sub-saharan africa so important.
the conclusion is that we should work together to develop the best possible methods of balanced, but accelerated and sustainable development.
this is the best indication of the preference of africans for our values, such as respect for human rights and concern for sustainable development to guarantee a better future.
this gives the european union a moral right, but also an obligation, to look at china's policy towards africa, because, as the rapporteur rightly points out, china can greatly accelerate the process of sustainable development in africa, but it can also harm it.
china should therefore be encouraged to take into account social and environmental aspects of its economic engagement in africa, as well as respect for democratic standards.
but i cannot help feeling that somewhere between trade, investment, infrastructure, energy and other important issues, we have missed a crucial point in this report from the point of view of both the institution we represent - the european parliament - and the committee on development, which is responsible for this report.
while an emerging power like china has a huge impact on the process of sustainable development in africa, it should be remembered that it is african states that are responsible for the overall impact of the presence of foreigners and foreign organisations or governments on their territory.
both the eu and china are committed to security, peace and sustainable development in africa, but the eu is africa's largest donor and main trading partner at the moment.
although china has a positive track record, having lifted 400 million of its citizens out of extreme poverty over the past 25 years, it is also a country with huge social and economic inequalities, as well as alarming environmental degradation, restrictions on basic freedoms and poor labour standards.
it's the trade and consumption of western countries that is driving china's demand for africa's natural resources, which is driving the growth of carbon emissions in developing countries.
the eu should address justice on trade, climate and other issues as part of its trilateral cooperation with china and africa.
the aim of these activities is to eradicate poverty and social stability in partner countries and regions in the context of sustainable development, particularly in africa.
i am therefore pleased that the summit will focus on issues that are important for ensuring the sustainable well-being of our societies and their impact on sustainable economic growth.
on the other hand, the issues of sustainable development, environmental protection, climate change and energy are challenges that are increasingly affecting the functioning of both continents.
it is particularly important to reconcile economic growth with the principles of sustainable development.
i conclude that this lima summit should enable us to strengthen the dialogue with the region and to coordinate our action better in the light of the major international environmental issues, in particular.
the chinese economy is demanding more and more energy, more and more natural resources, so china will do anything to establish a permanent foothold in africa.
preserving biodiversity is a challenge for the modern world, not just for its beauty, but also for the balance of nature and the well-being of humans.
for years, we have seen the problem of chemical pollution and other negative effects of civilization, such as environmental degradation, climate change, pollution, deforestation, and habitat destruction.
the greenhouse effect has become a hot topic recently.
so we have to make a very clear decision: are we for biodiversity or are we for gmos?
are we concerned about people and their environment or about the interests of monsanto and other companies like it that make huge profits from gmos?
to save biodiversity, we also need to ensure that the most threatened species in the wild are fully identified, so that conservation objectives can be set and future extinction of species can be prevented.
we know that intensive agriculture reduces biodiversity.
the question arises: how can biodiversity conservation be reconciled with intensive infrastructure and economic development?
modern biodiversity management requires increased monitoring of existing processes and appropriate investment in scientific research.
if we are to benefit from economic growth, we must use part of the profits to finance the maintenance of biodiversity, and finally we must be aware that preserving and protecting the environment requires action at both local and global levels, on the part of each of us individually and across the economy.
i can agree with you that art is not easy to talk about a serious and complex issue like the issue of biodiversity in a short, synthetic way.
first of all, you also supported the council's view that there is a link and interdependence between climate change and the impact on biodiversity.
from waste, to transport policy, which therefore touches on issues of sustainable production, sustainable consumption and so on.
here i would like to emphasise the need to link sectors that affect biodiversity, and in particular the important role of the private sector in this.
the tripartite presidency, together with germany and portugal and now slovenia, has committed to bringing this issue of private sector involvement in tackling biodiversity issues to bonn.
the conference on 'business and biodiversity' in portugal was a great success and we want to see the upgrading of these solutions proposed in bonn.
i would like to thank mr blokland for mentioning the successful meeting, the informal meeting of the environment ministers in ljubljana.
we have opened up the question of forests, sustainable use of forests, forests and their impacts on biodiversity and of course as opportunities for biomass and also the very opportunities for second generation biofuels.
i would like to point out in particular that the council is aware of the seriousness and complexity of the issue of sustainability criteria for the production of biofuels and biomass.
that is why, in agreement with the european commission, we have started intensive work on the working group which, i hope, will be meeting in coreper next month to find good solutions for the sustainability criteria for the production of biofuels, which will then form part of the two directives currently being adopted.
i would like to thank in particular all those who, in addition to the social and other social impacts, the negative impacts of biofuel production, also mentioned their impact on biodiversity, which is sometimes a little forgotten.
i recognise some old colleagues in the fight for environmental protection and biodiversity.
as you know, the european council agreed this 10% biofuels target subject to very clear conditions, and our position in the european union is that we want sustainable biofuels that have no negative environmental or food production impact.
we in the commission consider the long-term benefits of biofuels in terms of less co2 emissions because, remember, the alternative today is oil.
a limited target of 10%, robust sustainability criteria and also aiming at second-generation biofuels – this is the real challenge: to make sure that we can move as quickly as possible into the use of second-generation biofuels.
but we will also have to act internationally on these issues and make sure that there are sustainability criteria and that this does not add to the food crisis.
that must also be prepared for the climate change negotiations.
i would also say to ms doyle that maybe the main thing is not to try to merge the negotiations between the different conferences of parties but rather to make sure that we maximise the co-benefits when we implement both the measures on fighting climate change and making sure that we can keep up our biodiversity targets.
so i think this is what has to be done now, especially when it comes to protecting tropical forests and to ensuring that we have these sustainability criteria for biofuels.
the ninth conference of the states parties to the un convention on biological diversity will be held in bonn in may 2008. the representatives of the countries will assess the process of loss of biodiversity in the world.
the loss of biodiversity in forests is particularly damaging, affecting the rate of deforestation and accelerating the climate crisis.
i share the concern that climate change will further worsen the state of biodiversity in the world and lead to ecosystem degradation and species extinction, which in turn will have a negative impact on human development and the fight against poverty.
we already know that about 20 percent of the world's carbon emissions are caused by deforestation and forest degradation.
in this context, the eu's credibility is seriously damaged by the poor implementation by member states of biodiversity legislation and directives such as the birds and habitats directives.
similarly, there is resistance to policy action, such as insufficient efforts to meet the commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity in the eu by 2010, reluctance to negotiate an access and benefit-sharing instrument and reluctance to allocate additional funds to developing countries to implement the convention.
first, many wto member countries do not adhere to social, environmental or animal welfare standards, which, while allowing for a significant reduction in production costs, unfortunately prevents them from competing with the products produced by these economies.
transparency, competitiveness is primarily the fulfillment of certain standards and quality requirements in the production process, in the field of environmental protection, working conditions and wages, animal welfare, etc.
the zero tolerance approach for unauthorised gmos currently applied by the eu has been laid down in eu legislation, having been approved by the european parliament and the council as the best way to protect human and animal health and the environment.
the second area is the environment.
many scientists warn that the environmental consequences of gmos could be catastrophic.
the threat to the balance of the environment requires us to take action that will lead to a change in the development model and a different lifestyle of our society.
economic activity involves environmental costs, which are often unfortunately not taken into account in the economic calculation.
although the 'polluter pays' principle, as one of the pillars of the european union's environmental policy, is valid throughout the community, its application in some countries leaves much to be desired.
the european union is introducing a number of legislative acts and standards to improve the state of the environment, and new market instruments are needed.
economic taxes in the european union can play a very important role in achieving environmental objectives.
so far, only the carbon trading system is in place.
it is very important that the revenues from environmental taxes are used to prevent harmful impacts on the environment and human health.
it appears necessary to harmonise environmental taxes gradually across the union.
environmental taxation varies widely across the member states.
some eu member states already have their own market instruments, such as energy saving certificates, green energy certificates.
however, all member states should strongly support low-carbon technologies, energy saving, renewable technologies.
in conclusion, i would like to stress that the european union remains a leader in environmental protection and i think it has an obligation to set an example for the world.
i would like to congratulate the author of the report on her excellent approach to environmental protection.
i would also like to remind you that ever since the un report our common future, by margot wallström, we know that it is our duty to future generations, our children and grandchildren, to leave the natural environment in the best possible condition.
we have a special interim commission on climate change, we have good legislation, we issue regulations, directives and decisions.
the member states must break down their resistance, indeed their reluctance, to tax harmonization, for example in the environmental field.
today, environmental taxes, despite their legitimate purpose, are not very popular like taxes, they are simply unpopular.
we therefore need to make efforts at european and national level to make environmental charges and taxes socially acceptable.
we need to have a high level of environmental awareness.
we need incentives that perpetuate good practices, that promote pro-environmental social behavior.
people will accept financial charges, taxes, and other environmental charges, but only if they believe in their meaning and see the positive effects.
the market instruments for environmental policy described by the rapporteur are mainly taxation and levies.
the question arises: who is to carry out, in accordance with the polluter pays principle, the cleaning of soil, water and air, of residual post-production waste, of obsolete pesticides, asbestos, phosphorus chlorides and others?
the introduction of such bonds, which can be called green bonds, will solve many of the problems associated with the marketing of environmental protection.
first, the burden-sharing of climate change mitigation within the european union is highly unfair.
secondly, the implementation of the climate package, according to the european commission's own estimates, costs about 50 billion euros a year.
with most of the world's fastest growing economies, such as china, india and brazil, and economic powers such as the united states, not particularly concerned about climate change, the european economy may no longer be competitive on the global market, necessitating the introduction of instruments to protect european manufacturing, which is burdened with such high additional costs.
environmental protection is a multi-task, and its effectiveness depends on synchronisation and the skillful use of available tools, including economic ones.
promoting the development of clean energy sources: water, wind, solar, nuclear while stabilising energy prices is of vital importance for society, the economy and environmental protection and should be the subject of rapid systemic action.
first, man is not the most important element of the environment, and man does not own water, soil, land.
the environment knows no borders - air, water and soil - so we must act across borders, not just at eu level, but also at global level.
otherwise we will not have energy-efficient technical equipment, houses, cars, vehicles, so thank you for what you have already done, and i ask you to continue in this direction, commissioner.
we said in this debate today that we need to establish our ecological mindset.
our economies have been switched to a different way of getting energy.
therefore, the current over-regulation of the green tax system may reduce the competitiveness of these economies and, consequently, reduce their environmental awareness.
the commission's priorities for 2009 are employment growth, climate change and a sustainable europe.
it was recognised that open markets based on friendly and fair rules are key to sustainable economic growth and to reducing global poverty.
europeans value the environment.
eurobarometer surveys show that over 70% of people want environmental, economic and social policy to be treated with equal attention by decision-makers.
climate change is on the rise.
the oecd estimates that 6.4% of child deaths and illnesses in europe are caused by pollution.
the european union can meet the pollution reduction targets of the kyoto protocol (the president cut off the speaker)
through the introduction of emission trading rules in the european union countries and other instruments, including the european climate action programme.
i believe that mrs ferreira's report is another stimulus for member states to take action in the field of environmental protection.
it is particularly important to highlight the interdependencies between economic, social and environmental progress relevant to the creation of sustainable economies.
it was recognised that open markets based on transparent and fair rules are key to sustainable economic growth and to reducing global poverty.
russia remains an essential actor if we want to reach a sustainable, peaceful settlement on these conflicts.
this agreement is based on the recognition that the european union and the united states are not only each other's most important economic partners, but also that we share common interests, common challenges and a wide range of shared values, such as a commitment to free trade and openness to investment, a commitment to free and undistorted competition, respect for property rights, including intellectual property rights, and effective protection of consumers, workers and the environment.
there has also been a recent increase in production costs, in particular fuel and energy prices.
it is therefore necessary to conclude agreements with these countries in addition to this agreement, in which they commit themselves to respecting social, environmental and consumer protection standards.
because only then will these companies include in their manufacturing costs the total costs of labour, environmental protection, consumer protection, and thus their product prices will reflect the full costs of manufacturing.
combating global warming has become a priority for the union, and the union itself has become a world leader in this field.
here, too, there will be differences: we can't demand anything from the poorest countries, but we can demand that the fastest growing economies in the rich countries -- there we must achieve a community of interest on climate change.
if we fail to negotiate a common agreement by the end of 2009, we will be forced to change our ambitious policy on climate change.
it is therefore important that we use every negotiation of the european union with third countries today to emphasise this aspect as well - a joint agreement to combat climate change on a global scale.
both the european union and asean have great potential to take action to address global challenges such as climate change, energy security, the fight against terrorism, poverty and the malnutrition of millions of people in asia.
we also need to sensitize local governments to combat climate change by preventing deforestation and restoring tropical forests.
trade in biofuels should therefore be limited to those biofuels that do not affect the balance of the environment.
deep-sea fishing, because of the specific nature of the resources and the marine ecosystem, creates a unique microclimate, a micro-world that reveals very clearly both the well-known advantages of fisheries policy and its still visible imperfections.
i am in favour of continuing to look for more efficient methods of measuring the state of the resources, adapted to the ecosystem of the particular aquarium.
they're a source of food and energy.
on the other hand, ensuring market sustainability is about protecting dispersion and preventing market monopolization.
it should be ensured that the level of protection of consumers and the environment is not reduced.
the amendment was rejected by the european parliament in a separate vote of the representatives of the parliaments of the two continents in the committee on social affairs, exchanges, the environment, education and culture, which means that it has not been accepted by the committee.
i hope that we can maintain the climate of confidence which is largely due to the personal efforts of mr rømer, secretary-general.
these include the implementation of the tasks relating to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the elections to the parliament, the amendment of the statute of the member, as well as the policy on real estate, the improvement of the service provided to members, energy savings and so on.
secondly, the more frequently and better informed we are ex ante of projects of financial importance, the better the climate of trust between us and the bureau.
assuming that hydrogen is only an energy carrier, it should be borne in mind that its practical application, for example in fuel cells, requires the use of other energy sources to produce this carrier.
i would also like to say, in this context, that this specific technology initiative is extremely important because it relates to the energy sector, and every day we are reminded of the importance of that sector.
one of the most important objectives of the european strategic energy technology plan (set plan) is to accelerate the development and implementation of low-carbon technologies.
i would like to make my political commitment, that i will continue to tackle the issues with sustainable development, working on cee and gpsd (the general product safety directive) and they how could they be complementary to each other.
we started, years ago, making a good environment for business, and this was the right thing.
so i would also like to tell you that what we are preparing is communication: this is why we do not have a study on economic, social and environmental impact, as is done for all our legislative proposals.
however, this does not guarantee a secure standard of living, as skyrocketing food and energy prices push many families to the brink of poverty.
sea transport is a much more energy-efficient means of transport than road transport.
but it seems to me that economic issues are being pushed into the background by environmental and climate priorities.
first, one of the fundamental challenges facing europe is climate change.
secondly, the significant exploitation of marine resources, especially through overfishing, as well as climate change, pose a serious threat to the marine environment today.
the relationship between the oceans and the climate is seen as an important part of the eu's climate policy.
third, nearly 80% of marine pollution comes from land.
environmental hazards, such as wrecks and remnants of munitions and chemical weapons on the seabed, are also important.
fourth, intensive fishing has led to a disruption of the ecosystem and contributes to the loss of biodiversity.
fifth, oceans and seas also play a significant role in europe's energy security strategy.
on the one hand, they are a source of oil and gas, and also a source of renewable energy.
on the other hand, they are a means and a means of transporting energy and thereby increase energy security.
so we need to create a sustainable policy for the seas and oceans.
i believe that one of the key tasks of the eu's sustainable development strategy is to create an inclusive society in which operational goals and aspirations are at the forefront in order to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, significantly increase the participation of women, older workers and migrants in the labour market and promote the employment of young people.
next in line are: unequal access to job offers/no suitable job offers (56%), reluctance to take on a permanent/contractual job (44%) and lower than average wages in the environment or industry (43%).
in addition, chemicals that are harmful to the environment are to be used when the pipeline is started.
this could lead to a very serious environmental disaster.
finally, it should be stressed that certain specific constraints associated with this specific market, such as working time, environmental or traffic safety solutions, are of course very important here, but we should not forget where, for example, the safety line is and where the social negotiations are.
well, there are as many scientists who say that we are not able to change climate change with any of the means available to mankind today as there are those who say that we can.
and we will throw at the supposed climate change a monstrously large amount of resources that will inevitably reduce the well-being of humanity, and especially of europe, that we will condemn the nations of europe to a civilized country in relation to others who will develop faster in that time.
the international community has recently received a document from the ipcc that provides a broad scientific analysis of the problem of global warming.
first, though, today almost everyone agrees that global warming is real, even if, temporarily, some part of the earth is colder than it has been in years.
and it's not so much that we need to be showing more evidence of the coming global warming cataclysm, but rather that we need to be showing and proving what's causing the global warming.
remember, the vast majority of scientists who are serious about this issue agree that man is largely, but not exclusively, responsible for global warming.
in particular, the emission of greenhouse gases.
but today, remember, this is the most important thing, the probability that the warming is caused by human-made greenhouse gases is so high that we have to act.
the european union has therefore become a world leader in reducing emissions.
this encourages the reprehensible practice of dishonest traders to locate their business in countries where criminal sanctions for environmental crimes are more lenient.
it should be emphasised that organised crime is playing an increasing role and that environmental crime is increasingly transnational.
i agree with the rapporteur that the legal framework of the proposed directives is an important contribution to effective environmental protection and can guarantee uniform and fair enforcement of environmental law in the community.
in order to effectively enforce the law and effectively reduce environmental crime, it is necessary to provide adequately trained services.
we have adopted today a very important report on the fight against climate change, which is closely linked to energy problems.
i don't think anyone doubts that our climate is changing.
the resulting warming is causing social, economic and environmental problems.
to protect our planet, our earth, it is up to all of us, all of the nations and all of the communities around the world, to slow or stop further increases in co2 and other greenhouse gases.
we need to promote green investments, we need to promote clean energy, we need to promote energy-efficient installations, and most of all, we need to convince people to save energy, to increase their knowledge and awareness.
we need to find a compromise when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the union.
it is also crucial for ensuring europe's energy security, as it is the gateway for the transport of energy resources from the caspian and black sea regions.
- mercury is one of the most potent environmental poisons.
it is not biodegradable and therefore persists in the environment for a very long time, accumulating in food chains that can enter the human body in significant concentrations.
the use of mercury in the production of energy-saving lighting seems difficult to eliminate.
it is therefore necessary to develop effective collection systems for such waste and to apply safe disposal technologies to prevent further environmental degradation.
- caring for the environment is our common responsibility.
in 1998, the european council decided to protect the environment through criminal law.
however, in order to enforce the new rules and reduce environmental crime, measures are needed to provide the necessary resources, training for staff, etc.
− i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law (com (2007) 0051) because the introduction of new legal rules and the definition of a community-wide minimum list of environmental crimes will ensure more effective application of community law.
it should be emphasised that organised crime is playing an increasing role and that environmental crime is increasingly transnational.
i agree with the rapporteur that the legal framework set out in the proposal for a directive is an important contribution to effective environmental protection and can guarantee uniform and fair enforcement of environmental law in the eu.
the adoption of a set of environmental offences and related criminal sanctions will be a very important instrument in the uniform enforcement of environmental law in the eu.
− the commission's communication on a simplified business environment for enterprises in the areas of company law, accounting and auditing proposes measures to reduce administrative burdens and to ensure that european companies can compete effectively on a global scale.
i believe that the science of climate change, of warming, is not yet well established.
some scientists believe that large climate fluctuations are a natural phenomenon that has been cycling on earth for thousands of years, and the appeals of climate scientists are designed to instill fear in people so that they can finance their research.
others argue that man's ability to predict long-term climate change is limited, accusing the ipcc of being a political, not a scientific, agency.
another controversial point is the supposedly large number of scientists who support the theory of man-made climate change.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from the effects of nuclear weapons is a very good one.
depleted uranium is 70% heavier than lead, and therefore even a very small-caliber projectile can, with its kinetic energy, pierce through the armor of a tank.
(the sitting was suspended at 5.35 p.m. and resumed at 6.00 p.m.)
the next item is the report by mrs romana jordan cizelj, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the mid-term review of industrial policy and its contribution to the eu strategy for growth and jobs (2007/2257 (ini)) (a6-0167/2008).
that's what we're talking about now, and that's what we're talking about in the context of the free energy market.
fifthly, we must create the basis for genuine solidarity in energy and raw materials, without which there can be no industrial development.
and finally, the last point, environmental and climate standards, we have to follow them.
these are, above all, the dynamics of technological change, especially in relation to new materials, the need to save energy and water, environmental protection and demographic conditions affecting the labour market.
secondly, the ambitious targets adopted by the european commission for the reduction of co2 emissions by european industry, at a time when most countries in the world are at least cautious, will raise production costs in europe and slow down economic growth.
in addition, the distribution of co2 emissions between member states, without taking into account the delay in their development, has a negative impact on what will happen in european manufacturing.
the new sustainable industrial strategy action plan should take into account elements such as better regulation, reducing administrative burdens, particularly those affecting small and medium-sized enterprises.
in addition, environmental objectives such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving energy efficiency should be taken into account, as the advantage of using innovative solutions could make european industry a world leader in environmentally and socially acceptable technologies, products and services.
we have set high standards for industry, for quality, for environmental standards, for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, for energy efficiency, for providing good working conditions.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the draft text on reach test methods, tabled by mr guido sacconini on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0055/2008 - b6-0158/2008).
this strategy addresses a number of key issues, such as: ensuring a high level of public health and food safety; promoting animal health by preventing and reducing the occurrence of animal diseases; promoting animal husbandry and welfare practices that prevent animal health risks and minimise adverse environmental impacts; and enhancing economic growth, cohesion and competitiveness by ensuring the free movement of goods and the appropriate movements of animals.
the risks to animal health are increasing due to the opening of new borders, trade, human mobility, increased demand for food and global warming.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the strategy for the third meeting of the convention's parties on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters, by mr miroslava ouzký on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0054/2008 - b6-0157/2008).
this decision is of practical relevance and importance already now as it would apply to the amendment to the convention adopted in 2005 on genetically modified organisms; · continuation of the work with respect to public participation, in particular in international forums, and access to justice in environmental matters; and· contribute to appointing high quality members to the compliance committee, which is the main compliance mechanism of the convention, so that it can usefully assist parties in furthering the implementation of the convention.
climate change has had dramatic effects in some developing countries.
the point is to emphasise that we are doing this today also because the european union recognises the threat of climate change as a challenge to civilisation and as a civic responsibility.
so we should, given the threat of global warming, significantly increase funding, strengthen donor action.
this is the vision and action that will underpin our strategy for the eu's priority 'climate action'.
we should also focus our aid on renewable energy in developing countries (fighting hunger is of course the most important, but i am talking about additional measures), and on overcoming the direct effects of warming, on adaptation measures such as coastal flooding, soil salinity, unprecedented droughts and floods.
let us remember that our goal, the political priority of the european union, is to reach a global agreement on the fight against global warming.
the negotiations will take place in poznań in 2008 and copenhagen in 2009. if we are to convince other countries to agree, we must reduce emissions and develop new technologies within the union and provide special assistance to developing countries.
the european union is at the forefront of helping countries affected by drought, floods, famine and the increasingly recent disasters caused by climate change.
the assistance provided should be linked to the development of social awareness, democratic institutions, education systems, so that the local community is prepared to take the initiative for the sustainable development of these regions and countries.
the rising food prices, as well as the significant increase in energy prices, are the causes of the increase in inflation.
the main factors cited are: changes in the world economy, including higher energy prices, lower harvests, biofuel production.
too little emphasis is placed on stabilising production levels and maintaining sufficient stocks to limit fluctuations in production levels due to climate change or other factors.
i agree with the rapporteur that improving the regulatory environment at european level must be accompanied by the involvement of the member states.
these include increasing food demand, rising fuel prices, environmental disasters (especially droughts), reducing the area of crops used for food and feed (at the expense of increasing the area used for so-called energy agriculture), etc.
this shows the dynamism, the energy of the belarusian society.
we should complement our reactive policy to short- and medium-term challenges with a more long-term strategic approach and definition of european interests in the long term, by addressing the true causes and not only the effects of some changes around us like darfur, which is both a climate and a conflict situation.
we should continue being active on various geographical priorities, but also face new challenges and horizontal issues like climate security, energy security, space security, cyber-security, migration flows and many others.
it is important to emphasize that we are also introducing the idea of a common energy policy, of energy security as an element of our common european thinking.
the potential for energy, the potential for access to water, to food.
if anything, it is usually to create a safe environment in which to do the real task, which will be of a civil and political nature.
energy security was the most frequently mentioned topic.
most worrying is the eu's growing dependence on energy supplies from countries that are unstable and undemocratic.
we see an absolute lack of coordination in the signature by member states of bilateral energy agreements which threaten eu interests and call into question strategic projects.
i would like to reiterate the strategic importance of the nabucco pipeline for the eu's energy security and call on the european commission and the council to do their utmost to intensify work on this project.
in conclusion, i believe that strengthening the eastern neighbourhood policy and ending the provocation of conflicts beyond our eastern border as well as ensuring energy security should be a priority of the eu's foreign policy.
i therefore share the regret and concern expressed in the report about the lack of progress in building a common european energy policy.
i cannot accept the fact that some member states are concluding individual, bilateral agreements for the supply of energy from russia.
this significantly weakens the bargaining power of the european union as a whole and its efforts to build a common energy policy.
the european union has made climate action the flagship of its activities - a priority for all past and future eu presidencies.
the united states agrees that it is primarily human activities that are causing climate change, but it does not want to make commitments to combat climate change.
we the european union, on the contrary, have adopted a very strict emissions reduction programme.
the united states is almost the largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world.
getting this largest emitter to commit to a common commitment can lead to a global agreement in poznan and copenhagen, and only if we can achieve such an agreement will our emissions reduction programme not be wasted.
that is why i believe that talking to the united states about this and presenting our projects and convincing them to act together on the international stage at the next climate convention is one of the most important, if not the most important, points for the european union today.
europe cannot become a global warming propagandist with al gore at the expense of its own businesses.
the growing and extreme need for energy by emerging economies, rising food prices, and conflicts around the world are just some of the issues that the eu-us partnership has to work on together for peace, sustainability, and to facilitate human dignity around the globe.
i wanted to protest in the european parliament against the unlawful termination by the national environmental protection fund, which is subordinate to the polish government, of the contract with the lux veritatis foundation for the implementation of a geothermal investment for toruń, while announcing the non-reimbursement of the huge costs incurred by the foundation for this investment.
the circumstances indicate that the decision was politically motivated and contrary not only to polish domestic law but also to community law, which proves that in the name of combating persons perceived as political enemies, legislation is not respected and the promotion of renewable energy production is prevented, also violating the principle of non-discrimination on political and religious grounds, which is fundamental for the union.
the former authorities of the national environmental and water protection fund state that the application of the lux veritatis foundation was examined very carefully and did not raise any doubts
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development.
the main objectives of the scheme should therefore be: poverty reduction, sustainable development and good governance in developing countries, and the achievement of the millennium development goals.
our european side should focus on showing that there is no sustainable development without peace, stability, human rights, the rule of law and better governance.
the council regulation is an interesting example of preventive legislation, a regulation against illegal fishing that threatens the sustainability of fish stocks.
i believe that the recently published revised assessment of the ics in relation to the baltic ecosystem is a harbinger of a softening in fisheries policy, a process of adjustment to the european union's revolutionary approach to conserving resources.
first, many countries involved in international trade, even those that are members of the wto, do not respect social and environmental standards, which significantly reduces their production costs, but at the same time prevents fair competition.
we support projects in credit, transportation, energy, and we also support institutional reforms in the south.
it should be accompanied by enhanced regional cooperation and increased social integration and cooperation in the field of environmental protection.
we need to put more emphasis on those kinds of security that are not covered by the european security strategy, namely energy or food security.
young farmers who start farming face many difficulties: lack of good land or high land prices, production limits, lack of start-up capital for investment, expensive loans, high agri-environmental requirements.
the report is written in a reliable way that accurately reflects the problem of illegal fishing, which is a real threat to the sustainability of marine resources.
on major issues such as russia's aggressive energy policy, the developments in kosovo and the tibet issue, the eu has recently proved that the cfsp remains a distant goal.
in any issue, especially one that affects the lives of billions of people as profoundly as climate change, moderation, common sense and basic fairness are needed to find solutions.
i don't see the justice in the proposal to limit carbon emissions.
the two main solutions are: equal treatment of highly developed countries, which are large contributors to the current carbon emissions, as well as many pollutants and higher technological capabilities, and of less developed countries, especially those whose economy is based on coal, and equal treatment of large car manufacturers, where reducing carbon emissions by 20% is easier, and of small cars, where these emissions are low and reducing them generates higher costs.
and the result is that it's not about the climate, it's about business.
i congratulate the rapporteur on her realistic presentation of the growing problem of waste.
the main thrust of the proposed regulations is waste prevention and material recycling.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the recycling of waste.
sources of surface and groundwater pollution are thousands not only agriculture and agro-food industry, mines, chemical plants, but also households.
the planned inventory list, including maps, will be a necessary source of information for all, as well as a tool for assessments by the commission when considering whether the environmental objective of progressive reduction or phasing out is being met.
the commission will also not object if a member state wishes to impose stricter environmental standards.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's forest fires are not reduced to a mere waste of time and resources.
the problem is the sharp rise in food and energy prices, which mainly affects large families and the elderly.
this is about both the technical and social infrastructure and the jobs and the creation of a climate of inner activity within these communities.
i consider cohesion policy action to be a fundamental way of promoting sustainable development and of eliminating unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, which are major social and economic problems in europe.
the problems that hamper the eu's sustainable development, such as low incomes, poor infrastructure and low mobility, are mainly affecting rural areas.
it is true that african countries do not often and sufficiently take care of the sustainable use of natural resources.
but we have to be very careful not to fall into hypocrisy, because you can't talk about policy coherence without sustainable fisheries in west africa.
the new waste directive is intended to lay the foundations for a recycling society in europe.
it is worth noting that the old member states of the union have had much more time to adapt their waste management systems to the strict requirements, while the new member states are forced to implement legal mechanisms and build the necessary infrastructure much more quickly.
the proposal for a new waste directive is highly controversial in many european countries.
the new waste directive will force countries that have neglected municipal waste management to take decisive action.
we should remember that poverty is increasing in areas that have been hit by natural disasters or other situations that we are currently seeing, such as the significant increase in food and energy prices.
we must create a sustainable development so that new, underdeveloped or backward enclaves do not remain or arise.
i agree with the rapporteur that in some countries, especially those just moving away from landfilling, energy from waste can be dominant and discourage investment in other processes such as recycling or reuse.
poland currently recycles the least amount of waste in the eu, at only 4%.
in lesser poland, 7% of waste is recycled.
at the same time, plans are being made to build a waste incineration plant with a capacity of 250,000 tons of waste per year, more than the city produces annually.
it is estimated that tens of thousands of tons of illegally imported municipal waste, foil, scrap, used tires, batteries, etc., are regularly brought into poland.
on a selected southern stretch of our western border, as many as 16 shipments of 40 tons of waste have been intercepted since january.
some border communities have had to increase their waste disposal budgets by 30%.
regulations on sorting and recycling are useless if it is cheaper for companies to dump their waste in the fields of a neighbouring country.
- i support the caroline jackson report because the new waste directive is intended to provide the basis for a 'universal recycling society'.
i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the new countries of the union are already having problems meeting community standards for the management of municipal waste.
it is worth noting that the 'old' member states had much more time to adapt their waste management systems to the strict requirements.
the new waste directive will force countries that have neglected municipal waste management to take decisive action.
it will allow the provisions of the directive to be more fully implemented, which aims to increase the knowledge and skills of seafarers and to increase the guarantees of safety and prevention of marine pollution.
our task is to achieve sustainable economic growth, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion by 2010. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou.
− in the eu's policy towards west africa, coherence is essential between the development policy towards these regions and the fisheries policy in the area and the level of exploitation of wood resources, which is linked to the forestry of the area and its impact on climate change.
the misuse of forest resources is contributing to climate change.
we should take action to prepare these countries to deal with climate change.
i am pleased that seven west african countries have signed fisheries agreements with the european union in the form of new partnership agreements which, in addition to the original objectives of protecting the interests of the community fleet, include provisions requiring third countries to develop plans to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by eluned morgan, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2003/54/ec on common rules for the internal market in electricity (com (2007) 0528 - c6-0316/2007 - 2007/0195 (cod)) (a6-0191/2008) and the report by alejo vidala-quadrasa, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1228/2003 on conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchanges in electricity (com (2007) 0531 - c6-020/2007 - 2007/0198 (cod)) and the report by alejo vidala-quadrasa on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation (ec) no 1228/2003 on conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchanges in electricity (com (2007) 0531 - c6-0207 (cod)) on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 2007/522/2008 on the european parliament and council regulation (ec) no 2007/522/2008 on the internal market in electricity (com (2007) 05228 - c6-02060) and the report by the committee on the internal energy market and consumer rights of the european parliament and the council on the regulation (com (2007) 05228-06-0228 final) and the regulation (a8-06-022/2008 - 2007/06-06-06-06-06-06
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
the benefits of the adopted energy package will depend to a large extent on political decisions.
only the leaders of france have made the energy and the economy largely independent of imported gas and oil.
the unforeseen, rapid rise in gas and oil prices is forcing us to determine the extent to which we can develop nuclear and other sources of energy.
the proposed rules on access to the network for crossborder exchanges of electricity and the common rules on the internal energy market should promote full synchronisation of the networks of the old and new european countries.
this will ensure greater security of energy supply and may help to reduce energy prices by increasing competition.
the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, established in cooperation with market operators, should ensure its operational functioning.
i support regulations that promote competition and energy development.
where the chapter is introduced, energy prices fall or rise more slowly.
in the countries where the breakdown was carried out, the average increase in household energy prices between 1998 and 2006 was 3%.
where they didn't, energy prices went up 28%.
but energy is also security of supply, and so it's politics.
i congratulate the commissioner and the rapporteurs on their excellent reports and on the good preparation of directives which can unify the european energy market.
let us remember that the consumer is the most important thing in the end and that is what all these regulations are for protecting consumers, the interests of users, energy in the european union.
let us also remember that our regulations will not solve all the problems, such as the increase in oil prices, or they will not prevent the increase in energy prices due to the introduction of the cost of co2 emissions, but they will greatly simplify and support our actions for energy users.
today, the direction is clear that the ownership structure for the energy market will be stronger and more far-reaching than for gas.
i welcome the parliament's position on the european charter of energy consumers' rights, and in particular the proposal to charge consumers on the basis of their actual energy consumption.
the bill for energy value, not for the volume of gas consumed, will certainly be approved by consumers who suspect, justified or not, that they are paying for 'air'.
the development of events means that the european union's energy priorities - environmental protection, security and market liberalisation - remain valid, but their hierarchy needs to be reassessed.
the spiral of energy prices, social tensions and fears, and the gazprom offensive - all of this forces rapid reactions and exposes the need for security and low-cost supplies.
on the other hand, the ambitious goals set for environmental protection and the fight against climate change are long-term and present challenges that can reduce the competitiveness of the european economy and increase social tensions.
it is regrettable that the 27 countries do not have the determination to create a common, competitive energy market.
they facilitate energy blackmail against those member countries which have historically been linked to a monopolistic supplier.
different national interests are reflected in the construction of the single energy market.
there is no field more important than energy, where the ability to build unity over division should be demonstrated!
access to affordable energy is one of the elements that accelerate social integration, access to knowledge and education.
energy supply has a significant impact on the functioning of citizens' social and economic life.
unfortunately, consumers, and in particular individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises, often have limited opportunities to represent their interests in energy access effectively.
the european charter of energy consumer rights should address some of the existing problems in this area.
energy suppliers and network operators should commit to operating in an environmentally sound manner, reducing as far as possible the generation of radioactive waste.
the use of renewable energy sources and the right of consumers to make an informed choice of energy source should also be a priority.
however, the priority is to address energy poverty in order to enable all citizens to participate in many important areas of life.
first, agricultural products produced in the european union must meet very high ecological, sanitary and health standards, which significantly increase production costs and thus make european agricultural products less competitive on world markets.
they care about the environment, animal welfare, preserving biodiversity.
it makes it possible, for example, to establish a common energy policy in europe.
it guarantees energy security for poles, and my region, which is rich in energy resources, including coal, almost five million silesia, gives a chance for development and progress.
this in turn improves security of supply and avoids disruptions to the energy supply.
the creation of a common energy market is very important, because we are seeing a continuous increase in energy demand.
this is an important step forward, but it is still not enough to ensure europe's energy security.
we must build a common energy policy in a spirit of solidarity.
it is necessary to develop appropriate mechanisms to allow member states to assist each other in the event of energy crises.
but even more importantly, europe must finally start to speak with one voice in its external energy policy.
only a coherent, effective and, above all, common policy will guarantee our energy security.
− the european parliament has taken a key decision towards a common electricity market by advocating mandatory ownership of energy companies in the european union.
only the division of the companies in the sector into companies responsible for the production and transmission of energy guarantees the creation of a competitive and open market, from which conflicts of interest will disappear.
the proposal voted on significantly strengthens the rights of consumers, giving them, among other things, the right to withdraw from an electricity supplier contract without additional charges or the right to change energy supplier within a short time.
i believe that price limits will protect consumers from abuse by energy companies, while not discouraging new entrants to the market.
of course, the solutions proposed will not solve all the energy problems we are facing today, such as rising oil prices, but they are the right move towards a more competitive market.
i believe that the european parliament's proposal in this form will allow the work to continue on the integration of the eu energy market.
i believe that the european parliament's proposal in this form will allow the work to continue on the integration of the eu energy market and to strengthen the agency's powers in relation to all cross-border issues, which will result in effective cooperation between member states.
the cap is raised by 65 mm in 0.40 seconds by a shock detector and pyrotechnic mechanism, and a separate mechanism keeps it in the raised position despite the shock force, thus absorbing the energy generated by the distortion.
a beam equipped with energy absorbers also has a protective function in the event of a light impact.
the long-term is the construction of a stable energy policy, understood very broadly, which is what we are talking about so much in the union and in parliament.
what i have presented represents, in my view, the limits of flexibility in addressing the short-term crisis, with a view to putting in place a medium- and longer-term perspective of restructuring, in order to regain sustainability of resources and the profitability of the sector.
i would like to say to mr davies that we are not proposing to throw money at the problem, but to provide assistance with a view to restructuring – as i said, to regain sustainable fishing and profitable fishing.
first of all, we are looking at the emergency measures, where we are proposing assistance for temporary cessation for fishing vessels (and this also goes in the direction of sustainability) for a maximum period of three months in addition to what is already in the european fisheries fund, and not linked exclusively to biological reasons.
as regards the first, the common economic area, we will be advocating at the summit the use of an early warning mechanism in the energy sector.
the hallmarks should be: results-orientated political cooperation, deep economic integration, a level playing field for our energy relations enshrining the principles at least of the energy charter treaty, and ever closer relations in the field of freedom, security and justice, as well as a progressive opening of our educational and scientific systems to each other.
i would like to emphasize that none of the western energy companies are as closely tied to the state as gazprom is to the kremlin.
russia's energy dominance will inevitably lead to further increases in energy prices in europe.
i would like the forthcoming eu-russia summit to be a demonstration of the european union's solidarity with russia's energy expansion.
energy politics turns germany blind to polish and lithuanian demands.
lithuanian demands for firmer terms concerning energy seem, therefore, relevant.
the union must ensure that europe's energy security is of strategic importance both for the european union's economy as a whole and for individual households in an era of rising raw material and energy prices.
the actions of the russians are in stark contrast to the declarations that we are a reliable supplier of energy resources.
at the same time, the development of sustainability criteria for biofuel production is underway, which, once adopted, will apply to both the union production of biofuels itself and to imported biofuels.
thirdly, such farming plays an important role in protecting the environment, including maintaining less fertile soils by natural methods, preserving biodiversity and contributing to the protection of the landscape.
it also reduces the harmful environmental impact of co2 emissions from cars.
the second is the environmental benefits, and the third is the improvement of european transport.
russia is a large country with enormous political and military aspirations, and a wealth of energy resources that determine its position in europe and the world.
russia's accession to the kyoto protocol makes it an important partner to be involved in climate change and environmental protection.
this time, i hope, we have partially defended that principle, but what a waste of time!
− the report on the european charter of energy consumer rights, adopted today, significantly increases the rights of consumers in the field of energy.
the charter is a very important element of the liberalisation of the energy market.
this is particularly important as energy prices continue to rise and become a source of growing consumer concern.
this will make it easier to compare offers and actual energy consumption, and will encourage consumers to switch suppliers if they are not satisfied with the service offered.
this will result in genuine competition between energy suppliers, greater concern for customer satisfaction and thus greater indirect influence by consumers on the decisions of energy companies.
i believe that the energy charter will slowly but surely bring about the energy market changes we have been waiting for.
gazprom's energy dominance will lead to further increases in energy prices in europe.
the last thing to note is the high carbon and greenhouse gas emissions from cars - 12% of the total co2 emissions in the eu.
i think we should promote cars with the lowest co2 emissions, for example, through social campaigns.
this is what we are facing today: there is a high increase in energy prices, including fuel, and we have clear symptoms of a global food crisis, and there is also an increase in food prices.
we've been working on an energy and climate package for many years, and this is very important.
there is mr. krzysztof mączkowski, a representative of many environmental societies, and i believe you are mrs. morkunaite from lithuania.
during this public hearing, world-renowned experts pointed out and supported what the petitioners had said: the threat to the baltic's natural environment is immense and it is questionable whether it is worth the risk of such a large investment.
it has raised justified concerns about energy security issues in several countries around the baltic sea.
today we are discussing another very important aspect of nord stream’s pipeline: its environmental impact.
i was, therefore, very surprised that commissioner dimas first stressed the importance of the energy supply and business aspects of the project, only later referring to the environmental impact.
i would have expected a different set of priorities from the commissioner for the environment.
we all agree that the baltic sea is a unique and fragile environmental environment.
numerous experts share the concerns of petitioners and are rightly suspicious of an environmental impact report penned by nord stream’s experts.
please note that the very countries around the baltic sea which feel the non-environmental threats of the pipeline most keenly will also suffer any environmental damage directly.
adoption of amendments that play down the environmental threats will, frankly speaking, add insult to injury.
it's also a test of environmental attitudes.
if in much smaller projects with much less risk to nature and people, several alternative projects are required to choose the most optimal one, then in this powerful project, which can potentially be a strong risk not only to nature but also to people, the more should the designers be asked to choose several alternative solutions and only from these few alternative solutions should the most beneficial and least harmful to people and the environment be chosen.
there is no doubt that the scale of long-term works in the vast baltic sea area poses a serious threat to the natural environment, biodiversity and habitat, to the safety and smoothness of navigation and, in the event of an ecological disaster, to the health of the baltic sea region's population.
under the espoo convention and due to the serious environmental risks, alternative pipeline routes that do not affect the marine environment, in this case onshore pipeline routes, should be considered as a priority.
the investment in the baltic sea is not a bilateral matter between germany and russia, because in the event of an ecological disaster all the baltic states will suffer.
such a major project should only be undertaken in the spirit of european solidarity and with the agreement of all the baltic states after a thorough and independent environmental impact assessment of the pipeline has been carried out.
turning to the substance, i would like to stress that the european union, regardless of the project that directly affects its members, should apply objective environmental standards.
the construction of nord stream, as we all know, will have a catastrophic impact on the baltic sea environment.
our aim should be to reach a consensus, not to force the giant energy companies to pursue environmentally dangerous and economically dubious projects against the will of the eu member states.
the second aspect of this highly controversial investment is the european union's energy security.
at the same time, the problems with the european nabucco project are an example of the union's inability to guarantee its own energy security.
by supporting the kremlin's efforts to achieve total energy dominance in eastern europe, germany is exposing these countries to the possibility of russian political blackmail.
i call on all the groups in this house to support today's report because of the possibility of avoiding a major ecological disaster and because of the right of all coastal countries to give their consent to such investments.
what the european union needs at this moment is solidarity in every aspect, both energy security and environmental protection.
in principle, all the baltic countries have serious objections to this investment, anticipating its negative impact on the natural environment of the baltic sea basin.
thirdly, it is an investment which is directly in line with the idea of a common energy policy for the european union.
i would like to reply to commissioner dimas, who has focused on the political and economic aspects, rather than the environmental ones.
we all know that russia has no intention of applying the principle of reciprocity in terms of investment in the energy market.
we all know that russia has no intention of giving up its use of energy as a tool of political pressure.
it is true that i referred to the public hearing which the committee on petitions had requested in january, where both i and my colleague, commissioner piebalgs, responsible for energy, spoke, and i repeated what had been said about the need for gas imports, as my colleague mr piebalgs said.
concerns about the environmental impact of projects of such a large scale, importance and technical complexity are of course entirely legitimate.
they suggest that the general public is increasingly involved in discussions on sustainable development and environmental protection in relation to major infrastructure projects.
however, both the environmental impact and the opinions of the public and the environmental authorities are the subject of the environmental impact assessment, which is provided for in the relevant legislation on environmental impact assessments, the community directive and the espoo convention, which, as i said before, russia has signed, has not ratified, has said it will implement.
we have always pressed third countries to ratify environmental agreements.
the results of environmental impact procedures must be carefully assessed by the authorities responsible for granting the planning permission or building permits for any type of infrastructure project.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental aspects of the report are not overlooked.
however, for example, the report refers to the threat of large-scale pollution from the discharge into the baltic sea of thousands of tonnes of chemicals needed to treat the pipeline before it is put into operation.
but it does mean that we must wait for the completion of the environmental impact assessment process, as provided for by law, to be able to discuss compliance with community legislation and policy, the impacts, the risks, the measures and to decide on the conditions to be imposed on the project owner.
the transparency requirements foreseen in the environmental impact assessment process ensure that all interested parties, including the european parliament, will have access to all relevant information.
it is interesting that from many quarters today it was heard that the commission should have more powers either to make environmental impact studies or to enforce various policies.
the commission has specific responsibilities; has neither the means nor the competence for studies and environmental assessment studies; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
the commission may only intervene if it has serious grounds for believing that there have been breaches of relevant legal obligations under community law, including european union environmental law.
at present, there is no indication of this, as the environmental impact assessment process is still ongoing.
i thank you again and i thank mr libicki for his report and for the opportunity he has given us to discuss this very important issue of the pipeline and the environmental impact it is likely to have.
almost everyone agreed that this pipeline is not only a threat to the environment, but that it will destroy the environment, first by construction, and then, god forbid, by a gigantic catastrophe.
it is a pity that those who are going to undertake this investment have not yet provided an environmental impact assessment.
we're talking about an ecological and economic issue.
we have no reliable analysis of this project, and yet virtually every construction project is required by law to determine its environmental impact.
this case is also an example of the lack of european solidarity in the field of energy.
the baltic gas pipeline has several dimensions, including economic, environmental, energy and political.
except for the energy dimension, none of the others are defending themselves.
from an ecological point of view, the construction of the undersea pipeline threatens to bring disaster to the entire baltic sea basin and beyond.
it is economically unviable, it threatens to include horrendous costs in future gas prices, it is an environmental threat to the baltic states, and it increases the dependence of some member states on supplies from russia.
the vote on this report will be a test of whether the european parliament is really guided by the opinions of economists, environmentalists and ordinary citizens of the union, or by the pressure of the german-russian lobby, which wants to limit the energy and environmental security of some member states and to break the solidarity of the union.
we must build on these successes, but we must also be aware of the importance of the challenges that remain, in particular, as mr brie has stressed, those of governance, insecurity, corruption and drugs, which feed off each other and which undermine the normal functioning of the institutions and the sustainable development of this country.
numerous studies confirm that modern aviation has a small impact on climate through its low contribution to anthropogenic carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and only 0.1% of the impact on cloud cover through compensatory streaks or cirrus clouds.
rising oil prices are severely limiting the ability of airlines to increase the cost of transport services, which, together with the additional need to cover the purchase costs of the emissions trading scheme, will hamper the development of this sector and delay or prevent the introduction of green solutions.
it must be a very balanced approach, taking into account both environmental protection and the cost of air transport.
the issue of energy solidarity, the issue of broader political solidarity, and concern for the environment are all extremely important to the european parliament.
the pipeline is a threat to the environment, the sea and the baltic states.
with that money, you could build a few nuclear power plants that reduce gas consumption and co2 emissions.
i would like to express my great satisfaction at the almost unanimous adoption in this house of a report on the impact of the planned construction of the so-called baltic gas pipeline linking russia and germany on the natural environment of the baltic sea.
in addition, a large number of chemical weapons are being sunk at the bottom of the baltic sea, and this could lead to an ecological catastrophe in this very important water body from the european point of view.
energy investment in the member states of the union should be a matter of common european interest and concern for the whole union and its citizens, not just for one country, in this case germany.
we must think first of all about european solidarity, about the energy security of the whole of europe.
i therefore believe that the union should develop its position, including the need to carry out reliable, independent studies and analyses that identify the environmental risk and establish an appropriate mechanism to monitor action in this area.
we need a common energy policy based on solidarity, without accusing each other of trying to pursue our national interests at the expense of the community's interests.
we must develop a common position on this issue, which takes account of both the energy and environmental dimensions and the security of individual member states.
breaking into these storage facilities could cause a major environmental disaster.
we talk about environmental issues a lot, and it doesn't raise any objections.
in this particular case, some members do not want to study the environmental impact of the investment.
the answer seems simple: for some countries and politicians, it is this investment that is more important than the environment.
- i fully agree with the rapporteur, mr marcin libicki, that the implementation of the project commonly known as the 'baltic gas pipeline' could create a direct environmental threat to eight eu countries: germany, sweden, finland, latvia, lithuania, estonia, denmark and poland.
the alternative construction proposal is safer in terms of environmental impact and cheaper.
i particularly advocate that an independent expert study be conducted to assess the environmental impact of the pipeline.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
this longest and most slippery stretch of water in the world is a major threat to biodiversity and habitat, and to the safety and seaworthiness of the region, not to mention the 80,000 tons of munitions sunk during world war ii.
we should pay attention to the analysis of possible alternatives, such as land routes, which take into account the cost of implementation and environmental safety.
with the eu's growing dependence on a small number of energy sources and their suppliers, it is important to support initiatives to diversify them; one only has to wonder whether gazprom, the russian company that holds a 51% stake in the nord stream consortium, is the best solution for this.
- i support the report by the libyan mep, both because of the significant environmental threat posed by the pipeline to the baltic sea and because of the attempts to circumvent the obligation to obtain the approval of all coastal countries and the lack of an independent positive environmental impact assessment of the pipeline.
it is also particularly important to preserve the principle of solidarity in the european union's energy policy.
− mr president, i was rather surprised when i read that both the set plan and our energy package were going to be in the same programme as a block.
similarly, the fact that they are both about ‘energy’ is not enough to link energy technology and the energy package together as they are very different topics.
as you can see from the voting in the committee on industry, research and energy, you have support from the european parliament.
the european union's approach to energy problems is full of contradictions.
first, by increasing the supply of energy resources, including new, more efficient energy sources, and second, by slowing down the growth of demand through new, more energy-efficient technologies.
therefore, the threat to climate stability posed by co2 emissions should be re-examined by scientists for its validity, lest it be found that reducing emissions will only benefit a select few, and mainly the companies, and not consumers, while destroying hard coal.
i would first like to thank the european commission and the members for this interesting debate and for all the work that has been done on this 'internal energy market' package.
the french presidency will give concrete form to the general orientation of 6 june at the energy council on 10 october.
the market holds back the plans for investments in cogeneration, as it is not profitable to convert the plants into efficient plants, which are burdened with emissions purchases and network problems.
the commission also divides the eu countries into better countries that can increase emissions and worse countries that must reduce them.
under the kyoto protocol, the reference year for counting emissions in the ets should be the 1990s, not the 2005 imposed by the commission.
leadership in the area of climate change cannot be at the expense of poor communities.
efficiency and savings should be the priority, and renewable energy should be seen as a complement, not an alternative.
the future is clean coal in the medium term and nuclear energy in the long term, as we have seen.
ownership unbundling can be a highly effective instrument for ensuring the creation of a single gas market in the european union and the emergence of fair competition in the union energy market and can, as a result, lead to lower or at least stabilised energy prices.
market liberalisation and ownership unbundling in poland, without introducing them by the main energy producers in the union, may give western european companies an advantage over polish ones.
europe needs an energy model that not only ensures competitiveness in regional markets and the european single market, but also guarantees the protection of the final consumer and, above all, energy security.
energy policy must take into account the fact that the potential for diversification of gas import sources varies considerably from one country to another.
i have already stressed on many occasions the need to develop a coherent energy policy that will ensure the energy security of the individual member states.
however, given the wide diversity of gas and energy markets, i support the rapporteur's proposal that these sectors should be regulated separately.
there are also commercial renewable installations and companies are doing business – nothing else – and i very strongly support these incentives for renewables.
if you really want to solve the climate change problem on our planet we must solve the ccs question because we do not know the true answer for that.
you are doing great work on the energy issue, as well as on r&d and innovation.
mr president, europe's fundamental weakness in its relations with russia is the lack of a common, free energy market.
there are now several energy hubs scattered across europe, each managed by national regulators.
it is natural that the efforts of national governments to secure cheap energy and jobs in the sector are given priority.
however, in this way, divided by national egoism, we lose to gazprom's energy offensive in europe.
an integrated european market and a supportive attitude towards non-eu suppliers can ensure our energy security even before we diversify our energy supply.
so far, the eu's failure to create a liquid and competitive energy market has been relentlessly exploited by the russians.
the creation of a kind of interconnected vessel system will make it easier for individual member states to respond to energy supply crises and thus reduce the threat of energy blackmail.
we must stop russian companies from expanding into europe and force russia to reciprocate in its treatment of energy investments.
the liberalisation of the natural gas sector is a very important part of the attempt to create a common internal energy market.
a well-functioning internal energy market is essential for achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, but also for ensuring affordable prices for energy consumers.
in this debate, however, we should not forget the energy security that must be ensured by diversifying the supply of imported energy resources.
this does not mean that the energy market is the same in every area.
in order to ensure a level playing field in the common energy market, investors from third countries should be subject to the same criteria as regards ownership and independence as companies from member states, and we should emphasise this very strongly.
i hope that the european market will soon be an open market, where the activities related to the supply and production of energy are effectively separated from the operation of the grid, resulting in greater transparency in the operation of the market.
mr racq's report takes up important concepts on a variety of issues, because they concern technical, organisational and environmental problems on the one hand, but also social problems, including spatial planning and urban development planning.
in the face of a global food crisis, rising energy and fuel prices, a number of questions arise.
mr buzek's report gives a comprehensive account of all strategic activities in the field of energy technologies.
unfortunately, the lack of funds to fully fund all research, with the skyrocketing price of gas and oil, forces us to focus selectively on research related to reducing their use for energy purposes.
this priority will also reduce co2 emissions and should be reflected in the strategy.
the european union's increasing dependence on energy imports, which is expected to reach 65% by 2030, requires us to take action to contribute to the security of energy supplies based on the principle of solidarity.
it is also necessary to create instruments to mitigate the risks to the energy security of the member states in the context of further liberalisation of the energy sector.
in order to achieve the eu's renewable energy and greenhouse gas reduction targets, we need to promote the development of new technologies, in particular carbon capture and storage technology.
efficiency and energy saving are particularly important.
it creates a more competitive environment for european airlines to compete with their international competitors.
the withdrawal of these non-compliant energy carriers from the market will lead to an increase in waste.
restricting access to the market for products that do not meet certain safety criteria can help to protect health and the environment to a considerable extent.
they can also destroy the environment once they've entered the ecosystem.
the limitation of the content of mee and bee in various detergents and cleaning products is a very beneficial solution, and i believe that the european union should make every effort and commitment to get rid of these unhealthy substances from our lives and our environment.
- i think that mr buzek's view on the question of the implementation of new energy technologies in the light of the challenges facing the european union, i.e.
the protection of the environment, the guarantee of the security of energy supply and the maintenance of a high level of competitiveness of the european union, is correct.
i agree with the rapporteur's remark about the insufficient resources allocated to new energy technologies in the current financial perspective of the european union.
we must remember that success in new energy technologies should be achieved through public-private partnerships.
if so much energy is being devoted to the creation of a mediterranean union, which is particularly supported by france, then at least the same energy should be devoted to the creation of euronest.
i have nothing further to add, and i will of course rely on the experience and eloquence of mr michel on this point, without wishing to waste his time.
it's a good thing that the g8, the eight largest economies in the world, have agreed to cut carbon emissions by 50 percent by 2050. of course, as i said, this is a half-step, because they haven't agreed on the medium-term goals for 2020, which is necessary for an international agreement to effectively fight climate change.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
in any case, it is up to you, the european parliament, and the council to reach solutions that will both achieve our environmental objective and also provide for the competitiveness of the european automobile industry.
we think this proposal will give incentives to the automobile industry and it will get the first-mover advantage, and also that european consumers will save by spending less on energy, especially with today’s very high oil prices.
it is necessary to clarify very carefully what this is, because it is a concept that can take on a special significance in our view, although in reality, in my opinion, genuine medical tourism is very limited, because in most cases, when people are really suffering, they try to be in their immediate environment and the systems of the various member states do not differ substantially in their basic level.
the increase in fertiliser prices is due to a strong increase in demand, and this higher demand is associated with higher transport and energy costs.
so there are three factors: higher demand due to rapid growth in other parts of the world, higher energy prices and higher transportation costs.
if the measures proposed by the commission are adopted under the third energy package, we should get cheaper prices on the gas market.
but you know that all depends on the adoption of the energy package proposed by the commission.
and quite simply, both of them can of course offer the fertiliser at a very low price because, as you know, the energy used in the production of this product is particularly high, and in ukraine and russia there are different prices for the energy exported and for the energy used in the country itself.
tobacco production is not sustainable in all areas, but i think that, with the earmarked rural development money for the tobacco sector, it can also mean that those that want to maintain or to stay in business can modernise their tobacco production and maybe at the end of the day have a tobacco production that can be economically viable, because the quality of the tobacco will increase.
we, the politicians, have the energy and climate package as a priority, but we must do everything we can to ensure that its introduction does not hit europeans with high prices and the lack of competitiveness of our economy.
our package is meant to be a testament to our leadership in the fight against global warming.
so i'm glad that the president is seeing these threats and i believe that the rules of emissions trading, because that's what it's all about, will be rebuilt in good faith.
i congratulate you on your european presidency and wish you the best with the two most important issues for the next six months: the treaty and the energy and climate package.
europe does not have the climate or the agricultural conditions to give up supporting its farmers altogether.
i'm talking about the threat of famine in many parts of the world because of the skyrocketing food prices, and energy security, and the state of the environment.
we need to revise our energy policy.
the first line of action is to reduce our energy dependence on russia drastically.
and finally, the second issue, namely the issue of our energy security.
i would remind them: condemn the disproportionate reaction of russia; support to georgia in the financial, humanitarian, economic and political fields; affirmation of the strengthening of the relationship between the european union and georgia; implementation of the six-point plan for resolving the conflict, of which - as several of you have stressed - there is an international mechanism; the engagement of the european union in the field through the deployment of a special representative; strengthening the eastern partnership, in particular with regard to the black sea area and ukraine this was explicitly underlined in today's conclusions ; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources.
i have heard everything that has been said this evening: you can be sure that the french presidency will remind everyone of its desire to have a much more diversified, independent and better structured european energy policy.
finally, i would like to say that i have been particularly concerned about energy policy for the last year and a half and i can assure you that it will continue to be a very important issue for me personally in the future.
i believe the russian attack was provoked as much by georgia's european aspirations as by its desire to control the country's energy supply routes.
recent events have also made it clear that russia cannot be a reliable partner in energy relations.
the package forms a coherent whole, emphasising links with other areas such as education, health, the environment, the information society and the economy, and making clear that economic and social objectives are two sides of the same coin and must work in close synergy for the benefit of people.
this conviction, which we have collectively recalled, has not prevented us from making another observation: the european social model must adapt to take account of globalisation, climate change, demographic change and the growing diversity of european societies.
this means that we are dealing with new rules for the remuneration of members, with new rules for the remuneration and employment of assistants, with the financing of the costs of the european campaign, with the dynamics of the prices of the various energy sources, which actually took place in 2008. but first of all, this is an election year and we must be careful to be rigorous and financially disciplined, because the growth of the european bureaucracy or the european administration, in other words, in an election year, is not the best message for the people we are asking to renew the mandate of a member of the european parliament.
if the protection of biodiversity is a priority for the european commission, then there should be no question of cloning.
by introducing products from cloned sheep, poultry, cattle or sheep, we are destroying the image of the essence of the european agricultural model, in which we place such high value on environmental protection and animal welfare.
it is therefore good that we are today adapting our regulations on the use of chemicals to this system, while at the same time we are concerned and want to ensure that our citizens - citizens of the european union - are protected and that our environment is also protected from the effects of the use of dangerous substances.
the aim of this harmonization, classification and labelling of dangerous substances is to improve the level of protection of health and the environment.
it's information that needs to be known by all those who manage waste.
chemical waste, which is and will be of great importance to our environment, must also be included in this part, which closes the whole cycle of product and chemical management and then of hazardous waste disposal.
the introduction of hydrogen vehicles will have environmental and health impacts, a greenhouse effect and political and economic significance in the face of the shortage of traditional hydrocarbon fuels.
hydrogen fuel with a very high energy value is a particularly dangerous product and will be encountered for the first time by vehicle users.
but perhaps the most important thing is that the combustion of hydrogen does not produce carbon dioxide, which is still harmful to the environment, but water, which will obviously reduce air pollution and co2 emissions, which is what we are striving for, including in the european parliament.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the commission on their initiative in seeking new sources of vehicle propulsion and energy.
this regulation creates a legal framework that says how we are going to use this energy, two of them give infrastructure requirements, so basically these are the basic conditions for the development of a new technology.
this pipeline must be dismantled and the european union, contrary to its declarations, must finally adopt a position on a single energy policy, a common energy policy, which in no way includes the baltic pipeline, even though this is contrary to certain interests of germany.
hydrogen as a fuel will provide us with an environmentally safe renewable energy source.
the introduction of union type-approval criteria for hydrogen-powered vehicles is necessary for the proper functioning of the single market and to ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection.
i'm very happy to conclude that we want to make it a human rights violation to knowingly harm the environment.
colleagues from finland, sweden, the baltic countries are talking about the potentially dramatic environmental impact of the nord stream pipeline project on the bottom of the baltic sea.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, like the european parliament, the council attaches great importance to the achievement of all the millennium development goals worldwide by 2015, in particular the one aimed at reducing the maternal mortality rate by three quarters between 1990 and 2015. the european union recalls in this regard that sustainable progress in this area requires respect for and promotion of the rights of women and girls by guaranteeing them access to health services, in particular sexual health services, and by protecting them against the aids virus.
the current political situation should also draw our attention to energy and communications services.
guidelines and the removal of administrative obstacles to an integrated or sustainable maritime policy.
with the expansion of any industry, we should always keep the environment in mind, especially when our maritime and waterways are involved.
while our policy may protect the environment and the social impact, we should address the problems associated with the non-eu countries which impede on our success in this sector by not applying the same rules and safeguards.
- madam president, commissioner, rapporteur and member for ries, ladies and gentlemen, european citizens in all countries are legitimately concerned about the quality of the environment and are increasingly concerned about the link between the environment and health.
the environment ministers had the opportunity to recall this last december: the council is giving increasing importance to this subject.
there are many, but the facts or the links between pollution and health are not always well established.
the new european union strategy for sustainable development, adopted by our heads of state and government in june 2006, rightly places public health as one of the key challenges, with the aim of promoting health without discrimination, improving protection against health threats, and all this is achieved - and i will come back to this - through a lot of prevention.
there's a better cooperation between the health world and the environmental world, which unfortunately, sometimes, tend to go their separate ways.
finally, there is the desire, which we are pursuing in a concrete way, to improve the integration of the environment into all relevant policies, plans and programmes, and in particular the health and environment plan covering the period 2004-2010. in short, it is important to complete this mid-term review in order to ensure that action is as effective as possible.
acting on the principles of prevention and precaution, which certainly requires the development of new tools to anticipate, to be able to analyse potential threats as soon as they emerge or as soon as a suspicion arises and then to be able to accept to consider these problems also in other fields, such as, for example, climate change or biosecurity, which all have a link with health issues.
- the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago the commission adopted the mid-term evaluation of the european action plan for the environment and health 2004-2010, which takes stock of the implementation of the action plan to date.
i am glad that the european parliament has responded positively to this mid-term evaluation by attaching the same high importance as the commission to the interaction between the environment and health.
as you know, the european action plan on the relationship between the environment and health aims to improve awareness and encourage research on the environment and human health, in order to achieve a better understanding of the threats and risk factors to human health from the environment.
the plan, which includes 13 specific actions for the period 2004-10, was drawn up following extensive consultation with experts and actors active in the fields of environment, health and research in europe.
the action plan stresses that close cooperation between environmental, health and research services, both at national and european level, is vital to tackle the interactions between environment and health in the best possible way.
to give you a specific example: member states are now working together to develop a coordinated european approach to human biomonitoring involving the ministries of research, health and environment.
i think it is important to add that, following the adoption of the progress report last year, the commission has undertaken other important activities in particular on human biomonitoring, the relationship between climate change and health, indoor air quality, research on the environment and health and electromagnetic fields.
the relationship between climate change and health is clearly among the issues of growing importance, according to the mid-term evaluation, and will be covered in the forthcoming white paper on adaptation to climate change.
these developments show that the commission attaches great importance to the further integration of the health dimension into european environmental policy.
recent legislation such as the chemicals legislation, reach, and the new air quality directive enhance environmental and health protection and are examples of a mutually beneficial approach to the environment and health for the benefit of european citizens.
in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs frédérique ries, for her report, the excellent work she has done and the great interest she has shown in the issue of the relationship between the environment and health.
i would also like to reiterate the commission's firm position to continue its efforts in line with the environment and health action plan to develop effective environmental legislation and ensure the proper implementation of existing legislation to protect both the environment and the health of european citizens.
with these considerations in mind, the commission will play an active role in the preparation of the fifth ministerial conference on environment and health scheduled for july 2009.
on behalf of the uen group.
speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the environment and health review 2004-2010, i would like to draw attention to the following points: - first, the legitimate demands of improving the state of the environment or combating climate change require additional financial expenditure, which places the public authorities and economic operators in the new member states in a particularly difficult position, who are necessarily focused mainly on making up for the development gap with the most developed countries of the european union.
- secondly, the european union is trying to be a leader in, for example, reducing co2 emissions, but the allocation of emission limits has been made by the commission without taking into account the developmental backlog of individual member states.
the legitimate aim of reducing co2 emissions and thus preventing climate change is therefore becoming increasingly burdensome for energy consumers and is causing widespread social discontent.
finally, i would like to congratulate mrs ries on a very comprehensive and insightful report on the impact of the environment on human health.
the link between environment and health is obvious, and the link between environment and agriculture is also obvious, because a smart, rational agricultural economy is about protecting the environment.
unfortunately, we are faced with a situation in agriculture which is threatening the environment: small family farms are collapsing, and there is a very unfavourable process of farming or even the industrialisation of european agriculture, and this is not good for the environment.
the growing expansion of gmo technology is also a threat, despite many serious warnings about the negative consequences of gmo cultivation for the environment, human and animal health.
i want to draw attention to one point and emphasize the importance of biomonitoring, a strategy that measures the relationship between environmental pollution and the health of us europeans.
and before we can be sure of the negative effects that a particular environmental element has on our health, let's not just talk, let's apply the precautionary principle.
i believe that the european union should do more and be more effective for its citizens in the field of environmental diseases.
the imposition of sanctions should also be justified at the moment of irreversible damage to the environment, as it becomes a threat to security and thus a serious violation of human rights.
it is important that all citizens of the union are aware of the vital role it plays in the ecosystem, in our daily lives and in the economy.
appropriate regulations that allow the reuse of degraded land while limiting soil degradation and ensuring its sustainable use are urgently needed.
this will undoubtedly be a step forward in environmental protection and in the preservation of the precious natural resource of soil.
after all, it is the opening up of trade in services that could lead, through the opening up of foreign investment, to more and more sustainable production, as well as to the modernisation of infrastructure in all economies.
- i agree with mr cramer that we need to improve the efficiency, inclusiveness and sustainability of freight transport in europe.
the concerns of eu citizens expressed in the petitions focus mainly on issues such as the environment and its protection, property rights, free movement and workers' rights, recognition of professional qualifications and discrimination.
we have to do everything we can to not waste the opportunities and the capacity to create new, positive value in all areas: whether it's technology, whether it's entrepreneurship, whether it's finance, whether it's social issues and so on.
we cannot afford to waste the talents, skills and hard work of thousands of talented europeans, young and old, including people with disabilities.
the importance of sustainable social structures and the need for sustainable use of the environment should be emphasised.
mountains are important areas of biodiversity, shelter for many animals, and home to unique plant species.
their landscape and ecological qualities are appreciated by tourists from all over the world.
therefore, there is an urgent need for special support for so-called mountain farmers who not only produce traditionally organic, healthy food, but also care about environmental protection, preservation of culture and tradition.
tropical trees, confined to a narrow geographical band, are all the more attractive and are traded, often illegally, to the detriment of the tree and the entire ecosystem.
if exploitation gets out of good, sensible control, it will end not only in ecological disaster, but also in demographic disaster.
wood is used as a primary energy source.
despite its commitment to environmental protection, the united states seems to be blind to the growing problem of the loss of primary forests, which is mainly caused by deforestation for the tropical timber trade.
the union must increase financial assistance to producer countries to prevent illegal logging and promote sustainable forest management.
on the topic of solidarity, this is about energy and climate change and about how we use the solidarity fund, because defence today is also defence against natural disasters or threats that we did not have, say, 10 or 20 years ago.
i do not like the doom-and-gloom atmosphere on energy and climate change.
an example of this policy is the attitude towards russia and the argument because russia has energy resources.
the union is india's most important economic partner, but there is still scope for strengthening the position of our companies in the dynamic sectors of the indian economy, such as energy, telecommunications and machinery.
as regards the comments made on nuclear cooperation, i would remind you that on 6 september last an agreement was reached by the nuclear suppliers group, whereby it was decided to grant a derogation allowing commercial relations with india in the civil nuclear field to be established under the control, with the agreement and in compliance with the conditions laid down by the international atomic energy agency, and i would also remind you that india has committed itself to extending its moratorium on nuclear tests and, finally, that civil and military programmes must be clearly separated.
in conclusion, the european union - i would remind you - is the only one that is developing a rigorous dialogue with all the emerging countries and that applies the same human rights criteria to each of its partners, with the mandatory clause in every new agreement since 1995, with a requirement to respect international standards, whether it be the icc, the un conventions on political rights or the application of environmental social rights.
i would just like to say a few words on climate change, because it is, of course, in our interests to engage india in the run-up to the post-kyoto regime.
as you know, we take the view, contrary to india, that climate-change-related measures are not incompatible with economic development.
we have good reason to expect that a work programme on energy and climate change will be adopted at the summit, and this is an essential component of our cooperation with india.
− i have today supported the resolution on the international tropical timber agreement (itta) 2006 because i believe that promoting measures to address regional or global environmental problems at international level is actually one of the more useful areas of the european union's activities.
i hope that we all agree that it is necessary to ensure the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of degraded forest areas.
nevertheless, in the long term, i think it is quite clear that speculators will still be able to play a part if we have the feeling that our growing global energy needs are not being met by a new energy mix that is less dependent on hydrocarbons.
there was a clear expectation that the major consuming countries would have to make it clear that they are changing their energy mix, that they are practicing energy efficiency and that they are less dependent on hydrocarbons.
i think that's the whole point of the climate-energy package that's going to be presented, that the 500 million european consumers are saying: we're going to go to more local, more autonomous energy, with a more direct link between producers and consumers.
but a genuine energy self-sufficiency strategy and a change in the mix seem to us to be the most appropriate response in the medium and long term.
the commission is now finalising the second strategic energy review, which is also based on the debates in this house.
i expect that this second strategic energy review will be adopted in november, and it will particularly cover the issues that we have been addressing today.
definitely there is a limit to what we can propose in the strategic energy review due to the lisbon treaty ratification, because there is an energy article that would give much more opportunity to streamline the response.
while there is clearly a need for short-term action by member states to mitigate the impact on the most vulnerable households, the main policy response should aim at facilitating our transition towards clearly more sustainable ways of producing and consuming energy.
in other words, to pursue our aim of becoming a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy.
in order to do so it will be vital to take forward the commission’s proposals on climate and energy policy, following up on the political commitments of the european council.
it is important to underline that we are facing an energy price increase, not only for oil: it also goes for coal, it also goes for gas and, as a result, it also has an impact on electricity prices.
the situation clearly reinforces the need for encouraging competition throughout the whole energy sector.
that is why, again, i would like to underline the importance of swiftly reaching an agreement on the third internal energy market package.
europe can and must develop its own strengths to deal with the fast-changing global energy economy.
this will diminish european vulnerability to energy-supply disruption and facilitate our cooperation with energy producer and transit countries.
on european energy oil stocks, we have now prepared legislation that will clearly address two things: one, that these oil stocks will be always available at moments of crisis and can be easily used; and second, it is issues of precedence addressed, it is transparency and reporting on a weekly basis on commercial stocks.
but, at the same time, we will continue our work on analysing what impact speculation has at a particular moment and whether there is really the ability to diminish volatility and have more supervision in the energy market.
energy efficiency, renewables and diversification: it is very clear that our main lines are in our energy and climate policy, and it will be prominent in our strategic energy review.
in addition, there are many actions being pursued under the current energy efficiency action plan, including also legislative initiatives and studies.
and there are also support actions, for example under the intelligent energy europe programme.
the ambitious 2020 target for energy savings cannot be met without adequate transposition by member states.
this year the commission also will adopt an energy efficiency package.
this will include a communication with a comprehensive overview of the commission’s ambitions for energy effciency, as well as legislative and policy initiatives – in particular, prominent proposals for an ambitious recast of the directive on the energy performance of buildings; also for a modification of the energy labelling directive, to ensure more effective and dynamic labelling.
needless to say, continued high energy prices further support the need for action in this area.
the european council, when analysing the appropriate responses to the high oil price situation, underlines the importance of a sustainable and adequate tax framework.
there is considerable scope for the eu and its member states to make more systematic and effective use of taxation to encourage energy savings.
the commission intends to present proposals and recommendations on the cost-effective use of taxation and specific tax incentives, including reduced vat, to promote the demand and supply of energy-efficient goods and services.
furthermore, in its review of the energy tax directive, the commission will look at how it can better support the eu’s energy and climate policy, encouraging energy efficiency and emission reductions.
more widespread and systematic use of road pricing, in line with the principles of the commission’s ‘greening transport’ communication, would also encourage a shift to more energy-efficient transparency rules.
on financing alternative energy technologies and research, let me draw your attention to the fact that we are in the process of preparing a communication on financing low-carbon technologies as a follow-up to the european strategic energy technology plan.
on energy security and foreign policy aspects, i come back to the idea that europe can and must reinforce its own strengths to deal with the fast-changing global energy economy.
internal and external policy in energy work together.
the stronger a common european energy market is, the stronger it will be towards external energy suppliers.
given the strong impact of access and price of energy on development and global climate change, energy cooperation is increasingly important throughout our development assistance activities.
we invest substantial resources in supporting movement of these countries, not only to eliminate energy poverty, but to power themselves with clean and new energy sources.
more immediately, most member countries have undertaken – or are currently considering – short-term measures in response to the recent surge in energy prices.
as high energy prices are expected to prevail in the long term, it is essential that the policy measures aim at facilitating the structural shift to more sustainable patterns of production, transport and consumption.
this also points to the significance of flexible product and labour markets and the lisbon agenda, and to the importance of the transition towards a low-carbon and highly energy-efficient economy.
still, the framework that we propose with the energy and climate change package and the internal energy market package is a backbone, because, the sooner it is adopted, the stronger we will be, and also there will be more competition and lower prices for consumers.
we also need to make significant improvements in energy efficiency and energy conservation.
of course, we have to develop renewable energy, because it's our own non-imported raw materials.
the price of electricity can be reduced by the decisive establishment of a common european energy market.
the third energy package needs to be implemented quickly.
we can also control electricity prices by introducing a sensible, moderate energy-climate package.
this is particularly important for the electricity sector, where it is necessary to consider, in the emissions trading system directive, benchmarking or phase-in principles for this sector.
i really believe that the period of energy being produced somewhere and then transported and sold worldwide has brought us to territorial situations that are not for nothing in the global financial crisis, because there is useful rain and flooding.
energy is the issue of the century, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
i believe that we must not only reduce the need but locate it independently of the nature of the energy, which will also pose problems, as with coal, which is a localised tool, which will have to be taken into account.
the only answer to anticipation is to do what was decided in jeddah, namely that europe, each of the countries of europe and europe as a whole should move towards this energy efficiency and reduction of requirements.
we shall have occasion to discuss energy efficiency again.
in other words we do not need to question the market, but we need to change the way we produce and consume energy inside the european union.
if growth is there, then there is more demand for energy resources, and none of the existing energy resources are in such quantities that we can say easy access is guaranteed.
so for this we need a paradigm shift, we need to really invest in energy efficiency, renewables, research and development: a new investment.
i believe – and i have said it again and again – that the proposals made in the second package are crucial to making this change, and for this to be strengthened we will add a couple of elements in the second strategic energy review under the headings: infrastructure needs and diversification of energy supplies, external energy relations, oil and gas stocks and crisis mechanisms, energy efficiency and making the best use of the eu’s indigenous energy sources.
but, if we follow this path, we can really guarantee that already in this generation we will have efficient, affordable, clean energy.
if we are slow in changing the energy sector, then not only will we suffer but also the next generations will suffer.
so we are at this critical stage and, as the minister said, energy is this century’s main issue.
– how appropriate that the european parliament is debating energy prices just as the summer ends.
they have the most limited budgets and at the same time the greatest requirement for energy.
any action taken which alleviates the burden of energy costs placed on the most venerable in society gets my wholehearted support.
a good example of this is the spread of genetically modified organisms, the destruction of biodiversity through their cultivation and breeding, and the denial of healthy food.
for the sake of human well-being, development and health, and the protection of the environment, we must work together to make europe free of gmos, bearing in mind that healthy, natural food is the most effective means of combating diseases, including overweight and obesity.
the european parliament is currently dealing with a wide range of economic, social and environmental issues.
it also contributes to the desire to control costs and to avoid, as far as possible, any waste of human, financial or technical resources.
you may recall that i presented the proposal to the committee on the environment and public health upon its adoption by the college and had a fruitful exchange of views.
so my voice in the debate for controlling energy has not been noted anywhere.
we are facing a rapid increase in the price of energy today.
in the energy sector, we must, first, step up efforts to increase the role of renewable energy sources, including nuclear energy; second, introduce new coal-fired technologies; and third, implement a comprehensive energy efficiency programme.
there is also our common european interest, and i mean here energy security and the availability of a caucasian corridor for alternative transit of oil and gas.
we expect the commission and the council to ensure the protection of existing pipelines and to develop further the dramatically lacking common foreign policy on energy.
the adoption of the wrong legislative solutions in the climate and energy package could undermine the negotiations to exit the financial crisis.
we want to achieve a basic principle of a 20 percent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020. the president of the council, minister jouyet, spoke of the flexibility of the climate and energy package, of the balance that must be maintained when it is adopted.
that should mean the ability to adapt the package, and particularly the emissions trading system, to the current situation, which is completely different from a year ago, six months ago, or even two months ago.
the same objective of reducing emissions can be achieved by different methods.
we know the results of the vote on the emissions trading directive, which took place yesterday in the european parliament in the envi committee.
we have not had enough time in parliament to discuss all the problems of the emissions directive and the emissions trading directive.
in the meantime, the commission will make available all its expertise in order to strengthen contacts with the belarusian administration in sectors of shared interest such as energy, environment, customs and transport.
bees are also pollination issues, they are the guarantors of biodiversity for our existence and our survival in the natural world.
there is an assumption behind them that, if economic conditions improve, then people may invest more energy in solving the other problems that they face – political, social and others, although all of these are interwoven.
our european citizens will be the victims of energy prices, tensions and insecurity.
we must remember that ukraine is an important transit country for us from the point of view of energy security in europe.
the agreement with ukraine provides an opportunity for the supply of these energy carriers from the black sea and caucasus region to europe.
ukraine seems to be compelled to reform its energy sector in order to maximise production and improve quality and safety standards.
there are a number of issues that we as representatives of the european union should address: (1) strengthen the energy security of ukraine and the eu member states; (2) ensure a higher level of energy efficiency; (3) reconstruct and modernise the thermal power sector and reduce its negative impact on the environment; (4) increase regulating generation capacities; and (5) ensure a higher level of consumption of renewable energy.
all of them should fall within an open and transparent energy market.
the next item is the report by richard seeber, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on tackling water scarcity and drought in the european union (2008/2074 (ini)) (a6-0362/2008).
the protection of water resources, aquatic ecosystems and drinking water is one of the foundations of environmental protection.
the three main challenges facing the european union in terms of water use are conservation, sustainability and efficiency.
climate change is not the only challenge facing europe.
the report also highlights the link between water scarcity, drought and climate change and the need to take account of water issues in other policies, such as land use planning, where in the past bad decisions have in some cases exacerbated the problem.
the report also calls on regional and local authorities to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the structural funds and highlights the role played by environmental programmes under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
in addition, the commission is fully committed to continue addressing these issues at international level, in particular in the framework of the united nations convention to combat desertification and the united nations framework convention on climate change.
in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that water will continue to be at the heart of our political agenda and that your report is a very useful and timely contribution to the commission's ongoing efforts to adapt to climate change.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the debate has made it clear that this is indeed a matter of prime strategic interest from all points of view, from the point of view of environmental protection as well as from the point of view of geopolitics.
in conclusion, i would like to say that this extremely constructive report will give the commission and the council new energy to raise the profile of the fight against undeclared work and to increase the ambition associated with it.
i fully endorsed the report presented by mr peterle of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety together for health: a strategic approach for the european union 2008-2013. especially since its subject is one of the most pressing issues of the european union and the world.
climate change, globalization, population aging are other challenges that we face, as are the threat of pandemics and bioterrorism.
let us hope that this will not be the case during the international negotiations on climate change.
take the energy policy, for example, where solutions have been imposed on poland that will destroy the polish energy industry in the majesty of the law, but contrary to the principles i have been talking about.
− the problem of water scarcity and drought, together with the growing effects of global warming, is now becoming a major concern.
the eu also faces serious threats from climate change and human activities.
this percentage is expected to increase unless appropriate action is taken immediately to achieve sustainable and rationalised consumption.
we also have to face the new challenges of population ageing, climate change, globalisation and even the aftermath of terrorism in the form of the threat of bioterrorism.
i hope that the economic data will appeal to those who are not affected by the geopolitical arguments of dependence on a single supplier of energy resources, the need for internal solidarity between eu countries, or the real threat to the baltic sea ecosystem.
in addition to its vital role, cod is also essential for the proper functioning of the ecosystem.
therefore, the decline in the population of this important species is, alongside climate change, the main cause of the profound changes in the marine ecosystems of the north atlantic.
the next item is a brief presentation of the report by anders wijkman on behalf of the committee on development on the creation of a global climate change alliance between the european union and the poorest developing countries most vulnerable to climate change (2008/2131 (ini)) (a6-0366/2008).
− mr president, i welcome mr wijkman’s report and thank him for his continuing support for the global climate change alliance.
overall we believe that the report highlights the right issues and identifies the key challenges the international community currently faces in providing support to climate change mitigation and adaptation in developing countries.
we appreciate, in particular, the report’s proposals, firstly to develop the global climate change alliance into a clearing house for member state initiatives.
finally, the proposal to spend part of the expected revenues from auctioning emission rights within the eu emissions trading scheme on funding for the gcca and other climate change measures in developing countries.
overall the gcca is intended as a key component of the european union’s climate change policy.
besides, it is important to underline the fact that the international community needs to arrive at the conclusion of a global climate change agreement at copenhagen in december 2009, so as to avoid a gap between the kyoto protocol and the follow-up agreement.
climate change, clearly, is a threat to development.
the gcca aims at placing climate change adaptation firmly within eu development policy.
finally, the gcca would like to employ different means in developing climate-related assistance, away from project funding and towards programme-based approaches.
we believe that resilience to climate change can only be built effectively in this way.
the commission has already entered into the initial implementation stage of the global climate change alliance.
finally, the commission recognises the need for better mainstreaming of climate change into its own aid programmes, in close coordination with the partner countries and development partners at country level.
beyond the rationale of cohesion policy which is, and should remain, a central pillar for achieving the new sustainable development goals, and in order to help regions to face forthcoming global challenges which will impact more and more on their development, the commission believes we should all keep on strengthening the delivery mechanisms of cohesion policy built upon the principles of an integrated approach, partnership and multilateral governance.
it is about benefiting citizens and businesses by simplifying and improving the regulatory environment in europe.
in analysing the implementation of community law in 2006, i would particularly urge those countries which are most likely to benefit from the structural funds under the 2007-2013 financial framework to bring their national legislation into line with european standards, in particular in the field of environmental protection, in a timely and appropriate manner, in order to make effective use of the structural funds available and to accelerate the social and economic development of the regions.
madam president, mr minister, the european council devoted part of its conclusions to energy security, but this issue went unnoticed and was neglected in the debate.
the idea of intensifying our energy diplomacy is fully justified, but what is still lacking is the willingness of the member states to agree on the message to be sent to third countries and the coherence of our policies at national level with the common interest of the union.
in short, we lack a common foreign policy and a common energy security policy.
no mention is made of the oil and gas pipeline projects which are essential to our energy security and the fate of nabucco seems uncertain despite its designation as a 'priority project'.
the lessons of the georgian crisis must also be drawn from the energy security situation and an effective mechanism must be established to protect the existing infrastructure in transit countries in situations of war or political instability.
action is still to be found, otherwise the european external policy on energy security risks remaining on paper.
the second point concerns the climate package.
in some member states, energy is based on 90% coal.
the brussels summit was also, thanks to the efforts of the polish president and prime minister, a voice of common sense when it came to the climate package.
the summit's decisions, for which the leaders of the european union are to be thanked, have removed, though not entirely eliminated, the threat of such environmental stresses, which would have been a decidedly excessive economic burden, especially for the countries of the new union.
one of the most important topics discussed at the summit was the global financial crisis combined with the climate change package.
in the face of the global crisis, it is also worth revising previous decisions to reduce co2 emissions.
the current crisis has a financial aspect, but it also has an energy and food dimension.
i voted against because i believe that the whole concept of radically reducing carbon dioxide in the form proposed by the commission, parliament or the european council is fundamentally wrong and has no relevant legal basis.
- the protection of the environment should undoubtedly be a priority for each member state, as well as for the community as a whole.
but the initiative to create a global climate change alliance between the eu and poor developing countries is a failure, to say the least.
spending taxpayers' money on yet another expensive political creation will certainly not improve the environment, but will only provide yet another lucrative job for brussels officials.
developing countries produce many times less pollution, and their carbon emissions are very small compared with those of the major economies.
i am convinced that the creation of an alliance along the lines of the eu and the least developed countries will not reduce pollution levels, because the key to improving the situation is, for example, to talk to the political leaders of the above-mentioned countries, because they are the ones who contribute most to environmental degradation.
knowledge of languages and cultures, country specificities and the ability to function in an international environment are just some of the many benefits of participating in the programme.
the russian invasion of georgia was aimed, inter alia, at terrorising neighbouring countries in the region in order to torpedo the nabucco project, which is crucial for the union's energy security.
we are now faced with a situation in which russia has added to its energy blackmail arsenal a military threat to the member states of the union and to their immediate neighbours, as is evident in the current situation in georgia.
russia is a strategic partner and supplier of energy resources to the countries of the european union, including my country, poland.
it is clear that both sides, the european union and russia, need loyal and effective cooperation, particularly in the energy field.
but of course we also need the common and effective energy policy which we lack, as has already been pointed out in this debate.
the russian prime minister negotiated in warsaw important points of mutual relations, especially in the field of energy.
the german e.on group has been granted access to the siberian deposits and energy market, and both countries will jointly develop a baltic gas pipeline.
the environment council, mrs doyle, mrs mcguinness, had an exchange of views on gmos yesterday following the informal meeting of environment ministers held at the celle saint-cloud, as you know, last july.
the first is to strengthen the procedures for environmental monitoring and assessment by harmonizing them at european level and, of course, i will report back on the results of this reflection in december.
the group is concerned about the legislative framework, about trade-environment issues, about the rise in agricultural commodity prices and its impact on gmos.
what is important - as i said - is what has emerged in the council, and the need to ensure that new guidelines on strengthening environmental assessment are adopted quickly in order to take into account the long-term environmental risk of gmos.
in response to ms doyle on possible reviews, including peer reviews, the council has initiated a very fruitful exchange of views with experts from easa, in particular on environmental risk assessment.
these discussions made a positive contribution, particularly on the subject of strengthening environmental assessment, on - what i have told you - improving the functioning of technological expertise and taking into account certain sensitive territories.
as regards the concerns expressed by mrs mcguinness, i believe that we cannot do without a rigorous assessment of the long-term environmental impact of the use of gmos.
however, these sacrifices would be made without giving any prospect of sustainable employment to the remaining workers, as the yards would very likely not become viable and would continue to need state support at the expense of the polish taxpayers.
we have been working actively to help the polish authorities come up with a solution that would ensure a viable commercial future for the economic centres of gdańsk, gdynia and szczecin and ensure sustainable jobs.
i can only assume that any investor willing to take on the yards – or at least some of their current liabilities – would be even happier to acquire the most important productive assets free of debts and develop them in a competitive and sustainable way.
we have done everything we can, and we will continue to work with the polish authorities to find an economically viable and socially sustainable solution which is in line with ec competition law and established commission precedents.
there should be sustainable production of whatever product over there with the craftsmanship of those people.
all the initiatives currently under way to meet the climate criteria set by the european council in march 2007, as reiterated in the conclusions of the current presidency, are clearly strengthening the european union as a world leader in the fight against climate change.
this report is a consistent part of our debate on effective ways to reduce harmful co2 emissions.
hopefully, the automotive industry will see this as an incentive to do more research to accelerate the introduction of new, cleaner and more energy-efficient technologies.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mrs françoise grossetête, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/82/ec and directive 2001/83/ec as regards the modification of the conditions for authorising the placing of medicinal products on the market (com ((2008) 0123 - c6-0137/2008 - 2008/0045cod)) (a6-0346/2008) - statement by the commission on the counterfeiting of medicinal products.
i also disagree with the majority's position on energy and climate change.
−to the eu citizen, an environmentally friendly and energy-efficient vehicle in public road transport seems to be a given.
it's becoming a necessity for our cities and for our environment.
we should also be mindful of integrating the use of clean cars into our actions in the context of the climate package.
therefore, as a member of the committee on the environment, i support most of the actions proposed by the rapporteur (especially technical and organisational measures) which lead to the achievement of the basic objective of reducing pollution by investing in environmentally friendly vehicles with lower co2 emissions.
i believe that it is better - at least in the first phase of the new regulation - to leave the contracting authorities in each member state (most often local authorities) the right to choose whether to include environmental criteria in the fleet ordered.
environmental aspects have also been taken into account and the situation of people with disabilities has been recognised.
the absence of the augustow bypass, the protection of the environment at all costs, without paying attention to the people, deprives the inhabitants of north-eastern poland of the chance for development and a dignified life.
i therefore believe that what is desirable is not the continuation of the current economic doctrine in the euro area, but a radical change in it, which will not only counteract the current financial crisis but, above all, will release its own energy for the economic development of each of the countries of the union.
it is necessary to enable assistance to be provided in the event of chemical pollution, explosions, industrial fires or nuclear power plant accidents.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: one of the eu's goals is an ambitious climate action plan for 2020, the so-called 3 x 20. the implementation of the new ccs technology will be facilitated by the introduction of auctioning in emissions trading and ccs technology after 2015. however, the emission limits of 500 g co2/kwh imposed after that year are technically unattainable, even for modern coal-fired power plants.
this would be a kind of moratorium on the construction of coal-fired power plants, which would threaten energy security.
the ccs technology could also be used in industries where large streams of co2 are a waste product, e.g.
this requires immediate financial support, as any post-2013 measures on emissions trading will be too late.
the agricultural policy currently in force and proposed will result in further rural depopulation, environmental degradation and loss of food security in regions, countries and the union as a whole.
the new member states will increasingly be subject to environmental protection, food safety and animal welfare requirements.
financial education is essential in today's environment and is the best way to protect consumers from making bad financial decisions.
with no resources of its own, the eu is becoming one of the world's largest energy importers, increasingly dependent on external suppliers of oil and gas.
coal resources will be available longer than oil or natural gas resources and could be strategic for us if the energy supply is threatened for political reasons.
moreover, the processing of energy from fossil fuels such as coal can be profitable despite strict environmental standards, which is a good prospect for european and polish mines.
today, economic growth and the fight against unemployment, which is becoming a greater threat to us, are a hundred times more important than the issues of climate change.
the questions that have been left unanswered are: how to stop the recession, create new jobs and, finally, how to combat climate change without incurring unnecessary economic costs?
we must protect citizens from rising food, energy and rent prices in order to maintain their real incomes and thus protect purchasing power - consumer demand, which, alongside investment and exports, is a key factor in economic growth in the european union.
if the climate and energy package is maintained in its present form, and in particular in terms of the emissions trading system and the requirements that will be imposed on power stations or the so-called heavy industry, i want to warn you today that in poland and in other new member states it will entail large financial costs, but above all it will cause a huge increase in energy prices.
fighting climate change is a good cause, but it cannot be done with instruments that will bring us very quickly to the next crisis, and today we have not yet overcome the current one.
to get the balance right in terms of environmental concerns as well as the social issues – all of these have to be covered.
but why do you believe that what you find in the strategic initiatives like the report on the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and proposals beyond 2010, a european framework for recovery, financial markets for the future package supervision, will not contain the social issues and cover the whole sustainability criteria?
i think that this also will affect our credibility because it is only when we also fill out these strategic initiatives, the things we have listed as strategic and priority initiatives, with the very concrete follow-up and implementing measures that we gain credibility and that we can also continue to play a leading role within the g20 or in the imf context or affecting the rest of the world on energy and climate as well; we will get this credibility from delivering what we have promised in this work programme.
let me finally say that in this legislative and work programme you will see that we have for the first time identified communication priorities and since this is my portfolio i want to underline this and remind you all that we proposed four items to become joint communication priorities for next year: the ep elections of course, energy and climate change, the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall and growth, jobs and solidarity, meaning that the package also covers fighting the financial crisis.
the common agricultural policy should ensure, first of all, european food security, self-sufficiency and food production for export, the economic security of farming families, the profitability of agricultural production, the equalization of subsidies for farmers from the new member states with those from the old member states, environmental security, the preservation of biodiversity, the prohibition of the cultivation and breeding of genetically modified organisms throughout the european union, rural development, the upgrading of the poorest regions, the protection of cultural heritage and the preservation of traditional culture, and equal access for rural inhabitants to education, culture and technological achievements.
the unanimity of the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety shows the weight and the correctness of the report adopted.
they used all the capacities they had to build up sustainable agricultural enterprises after they got the chance to do so after 1989. these farmers are not the big producers that we know from france and germany; they are still small.
it also shows how they can help to make our pension and health-care systems sustainable.
more people working more and longer is the key of the long-term adequacy and sustainability of social protection.
the report links sustainable, adequate social protection with the lisbon strategy and our commitment to guarantee sustainable public finances.
the report is a strong plea for us all, not only to keep working to achieve our basic objectives of access for all, solidarity, adequacy and sustainability, but also to work to strengthen them through modernisation.
thirdly, an information campaign should be prepared on the beneficial effects of bees on the environment and on human health of honey and other bee products.
a special support scheme for the beekeeping sector is worth considering because of its immense environmental benefits.
many of the directorates general other than dg agri are working on the issue we are discussing today: dg sanco, dg research and dg environment.
in the sixth framework programme, a specific target research project on food quality and safety priority was named ‘bees in europe and sustainable honey production’ (bee shop).
the environmental aspects, including chronic exposure to pesticides, will also be taken into account.
the integrated project alarm, on assessing large-scale environmental risks for biodiversity, is also funded under the sixth framework programme and includes a module on pollinator loss.
alarm will develop and test methods and protocols for the assessment of large-scale environmental risks in order to minimise negative direct and indirect human impacts.
research will focus on assessment and focus of changes in biodiversity structure, function, dynamism of ecosystems – in particular risk arising from climate change, environmental chemicals, biological invasions and pollinator loss in the context of current and future european land-use betterance will also be assessed.
i also hope that will encourage new entrants to the profession since this activity plays an extremely important role, not only for our eu biodiversity, but also economically.
today, the efforts of bees and beekeepers can be wasted by environmental and, indirectly, human impacts.
unfortunately, there is a way to protect this specific activity: from economic risks, such as unfair competition from third countries, from health and biological risks, such as diseases, parasites, environmental pollution and the unwise use of plant protection products.
it can be very difficult for beekeepers to save the rich biodiversity that bees contribute to.
i would like to thank the european parliament for this discussion on the very important topic of environmental inspections.
recognising the need for eu-wide action, parliament and the council adopted the recommendation on environmental inspections in 2001. the objective was to lay down common criteria for environmental inspections in order to ensure a better and more consistent implementation of environmental legislation through the community.
the commission launched the review process with its communication of november 2007. in this communication the commission concluded that, although the recommendation has led to improvements in environmental inspections in some member states, it has unfortunately not been fully implemented in all member states.
firstly, i would like to clarify that the views presented in the commission’s communication of november 2007 do not exclude the possibility of the commission presenting a proposal for a directive on environmental inspections in the future.
the commission’s view, as expressed in its communication, is that there is a need for eu-wide legally binding rules to ensure effective environmental inspections.
the question is, however, whether such rules should be horizontal and cover all environmental inspections or whether they should be sectoral and apply to specific installations or activities.
for instance, the requirements for inspections of waste shipments are completely different from those for the inspection of industrial installations.
another sector where we see the need for further action is the implementation of the eu waste shipment regulation.
the growing problem of illegal waste shipments is a risk for human health and the environment.
there is clear evidence of illegal shipments recorded during joint eu waste shipment inspections coordinated by impel.
recent trade data and studies on the export of certain waste streams, in particular electrical and electronic waste and end-of-life vehicles, indicate that significant volumes leave the eu.
in many cases these shipments seem to violate the eu waste shipment regulation’s export bans.
serious incidents of eu exports for dumping of waste in developing countries, such as the côte d’ivoire incident in 2006, as well as a recent greenpeace report about waste illegally shipped to west africa, underline the severity of the problem.
the commission is currently examining the need for additional initiatives, including improved legislative requirements, in order to further and strengthen the inspections and controls of waste shipments.
as regards the idea of transforming impel into an eu environmental inspection force, impel was created as an informal network of member states’ inspection authorities.
its objective is to facilitate exchange of information and best practice between the people who are actually applying environmental legislation in the member states.
to go further and create an eu environmental inspection force with powers of entry and powers to refer member states to the court of justice is an interesting and ambitious idea.
we should also look at the instruments for the improvement of the enforcement of eu environmental legislation at our disposal at present and consider whether these could be further developed or put to better use.
another example of an initiative that has led to better enforcement is the joint inspections of waste shipments throughout the community organised within the framework of impel with the support of the commission.
on behalf of my political group and as a member of the committee on the environment, i want to give my full support to the questions and share the concerns of the members who have expressed themselves in them.
the commission's november 2007 communication is indeed highly controversial and raises questions for all those who are pro-environmental and who want environmental law to be not only enacted in the european parliament but enforced and enforced in the spirit we have developed here.
i therefore urge the commission to take this matter seriously and to adopt the whole system of controls on compliance with the law, inspections and reports resulting from these procedures as a binding standard, in the form of a directive on the control of compliance with environmental law in the european union.
simply put, if we want to have effective environmental law, we need to have an effective enforcement system and a control system.
and i'm asking you if you want to protect the whole environment or just sectors.
i share the european commission's view that there are wide disparities in the way environmental controls are carried out in the member states, which makes it impossible to ensure the consistent implementation and enforcement of community law.
in my parliamentary work, i had the opportunity to see the results of several projects carried out within the impel network, including the project on the control of transboundary movements of waste through seaports.
i have found that the cooperation of the inspection services within the impel network is not only an exchange of experience but also, and perhaps above all, a joint inspection and exchange of information on environmental crimes and offences.
this is another argument for an efficient and uniform system of environmental verification in the european union.
this will allow greater political priority to be given to controls and better enforcement of environmental law throughout the community.
i would like to reassure president watson that the urgency remains, we are fully aware of it, and you have said it too, that we should not sacrifice, particularly in the fight against climate change, and i say this also to mrs doyle who is here, what are the long-term requirements, as mrs harms has also stressed, to short-term interests, and that we should not sacrifice the selfishness that may exist in each and every one of us to what solidarity must be, particularly with regard to our friends in central and eastern europe, particularly with regard to poland, the baltic states and other states, and that this will also be at the heart of the european council of 11 and 12 december.
in conclusion, and in the light of what has been said by the various speakers and president barroso, as i listen to these debates, i am struck by the urgent need to maintain our unity and show solidarity: solidarity and coordination in economic and financial matters; solidarity in the face of the climate challenge; solidarity with regard to energy security vis-à-vis the countries which are most in difficulty in this respect; solidarity also on other issues which will be discussed in the field of defence; solidarity also with the developing countries and with the south - that is the meaning of the union for the mediterranean; solidarity with ireland but also responsibility for finding a way out and for ensuring that the lisbon treaty enters into force as soon as possible; the european union is also committed to solidarity with the east and the countries of the eastern neighbourhood, thanks to the initiative taken by the eastern partnership commission, which i am sure will be approved at the next european council.
we have made very concrete proposals on energy efficiency, on the rapid take-up of green products, on developing clean technologies for cars and construction, precisely because we want to highlight one point: what we are proposing to member states is not spending just for the sake of spending.
the important thing is that it is smart spending: spending that responds to the immediate, short-term needs to stimulate demand – for reasons that i think do not need to be demonstrated – but also spending that is a real investment for the future, for our green agenda, for our fight against climate change, for energy efficiency, for inter-connections, for innovation.
poland has done a lot to find a compromise on the climate package.
we do not accept that hypothetical climate change targets should be achieved at the expense of energy price increases, at the expense of the relocation of energy, cement, metal or glass production outside the union, at the expense of slowing down economic growth and mass redundancies.
therefore we should support the idea of establishing an enhanced partnership covering essentially five areas: association agreements, a multilateral framework for cooperation, a comprehensive and deep free-trade area, visa liberalisation leading to visa-free travel and, last but not least, energy security.
one of the topics to be discussed at the next european council is the climate package.
the phenomenon of carbon dioxide emissions and everything associated with the so-called global warming is becoming more and more ideological.
we all care about clean air and the environment.
however, scientific evidence shows that the human impact on climate change is negligible.
if it's true that human activities account for only 4% of global co2 emissions, and the european union accounts for 15%, that would mean that we want to spend hundreds of billions of euros to reduce co2 emissions by less than 0.5% globally, while countries like india and china are increasing co2 emissions.
as for the next topic of the summit, climate change, i am glad that the french presidency understands, and i hope it will take into account, the difficulties of some countries in moving quickly away from coal-fired power.
the fact that the world climate conference is being held in poznań shows poland's willingness to join the process of reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
but we need time to change the energy economy and we count on the solidarity of the whole european union.
since the kyoto protocol was signed, poland has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by 33%.
at the same time, other countries in the european union, even though they are not primarily coal-based, have increased their emissions.
therefore, the attempt to set the date from which emissions would be measured at a later date than the date of the kyoto protocol is evidence of an unfair approach to the problem.
the small business charter presented by the european commission in june this year sets out for the first time a comprehensive policy framework for smes, providing a level playing field and improving their legal and administrative environment in the eu.
it is important to know what measures the council intends to take to ensure that smes have sustainable access to finance in the context of the financial market crisis.
the crisis is further exacerbated by the negative impact of global warming and by the scarcity of natural resources such as water and energy.
the attempt by the european union to adopt such a development strategy and to impose on the world that a drastic reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from human activities will have a significant impact on cyclical climate change is the greatest utopia of our time.
well, the international energy agency says that a 50% reduction in carbon emissions will cost the world about 45 trillion dollars by 2050, and that money will achieve a temperature reduction of, quote, 0.02 degrees, which is below statistical error, which can have no effect on the cyclical course of climate change.
we've said almost everything we need to say about climate change and energy.
we know that climate change is happening, but we also know that much more warming has already been recorded in the past.
we also know that carbon dioxide emissions in nature are largely unrelated to human activities.
humans account for only about 4% of carbon dioxide emissions.
the main source of co2 is the ocean, which has 50 times more carbon dioxide than the atmosphere.
the carbon dioxide emissions of the individual countries are not uniform.
without reducing emissions in these countries, europe alone cannot solve the problem.
nor will restrictions on countries that emit a lot of carbon solve the problem.
the expected 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 on the proposed rules breaks down these economies.
the aim of reducing co2 emissions by up to 80% by 2050 would lead to a collapse of the energy economy not only in poland but also in many other countries and would certainly lead to a total economic disaster.
forcing the european union countries, which produce only 15% of the world's carbon emissions, to adopt the drastic solutions contained in the energy and climate package is a destructive act not only for poland, but for europe and the world.
while the countries of the old union reduced their carbon dioxide emissions by about 3%, poland's emissions were reduced by about 30% as a result of industrial destruction and modernisation activities.
we are also against the recently imposed ccs directive, which will prevent the use of geothermal energy and the achievement of the 20% renewable energy share in poland.
but it could be the cause of an ecological disaster instead of environmental protection.
the release of carbon dioxide from the earth's crust can cause the death of living things and tectonic movements and earthquakes.
we're talking about energy and the environment today.
the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on climate change is real, although other factors are currently underestimated.
because what will be the effect of our radical reductions in emissions if other countries do not?
it is also necessary to take into account the situation of countries such as poland, whose energy is substantially based on coal.
it is noteworthy that these countries have made tremendous progress in reducing their carbon emissions in recent years.
the energy and climate package must therefore be prudent, yet supportive and innovative, pro-economic and pro-environmental, secure and forward-looking.
under the guise of high environmental goals, the richest countries and corporations are pushing a climate package that is hitting the less wealthy countries of the european union.
in the face of the global crisis, the mining and energy sectors (including poland) are being attacked at the cost of slowing economic growth and mass redundancies.
i am also in favour of reducing co2 emissions in europe and worldwide, but not at any cost.
the problem of climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity.
the european union has set out an ambitious plan to reduce carbon emissions by 20% by 2020, improve energy efficiency and increase the share of renewable energy.
these intentions show that the union wants to be a world leader in the fight against climate change, but the european union is not an island and cannot act alone.
first, the need for electricity generating plants to buy emission allowances through auctions will cause a significant increase in energy prices, especially in countries with a high share of coal in energy production.
secondly, the currently proposed allocation system strongly favours industries exposed to carbon leakage at the expense of energy and heating.
the main driver of climate change is the emission of heat from the sun, which provides about 96% of the planet's heat.
excessive co2 and methane emissions have a negative impact on the environment and should therefore be reduced.
the way out of the impasse is to take radical technical and organisational measures to accelerate the development of renewable energy production, to increase the production of clean electricity, to accelerate all measures to increase energy efficiency and savings.
i wanted to congratulate the french presidency on taking the energy and climate package seriously.
as far as my country is concerned, there is a full readiness to adopt the package as soon as possible, and the amendments submitted are well known to us in parliament and in no way threaten the main objective of the package in no way which is to reduce emissions.
so we need the climate package urgently, and as soon as possible.
we are responsible for negotiating the climate convention and we know that without such a package we will not make any progress in the global negotiations.
and only a strong and resilient economy can be able to invest in climate protection.
if we weaken the economy, how will we get the resources to fight global warming?
in the dramatic situations of famine, we should not waste precious time on the financial procedures.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr matthias groote on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines with regard to emissions from heavy duty vehicles (euro 6) and on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information (com (2007) 0851 - c6-0007/2008 - 2007/0295 (cod)) (a6-0329/2008).
the groote report on the european parliament and council regulation on type-approval of motor vehicles with a view to reducing pollution from heavy goods vehicles is of great importance for the protection of the environment and the health of citizens.
it commits to bring emissions to a level close to euro 6 for vehicles and engines already in service.
the regulation on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines with regard to the emission of pollutants from vehicles aims to establish uniform principles for the construction of motor vehicles ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
it is already clear that most of the documents in the whole climate and energy package can ensure coherence and economic development in the spirit of sustainable development by large and rich countries and corporations.
in this parliament we are passing another regulation which essentially closes the cycle of regulations on transport and means of transport in terms of their impact on the environment and air quality.
we can say very clearly: europe takes the protection of the environment and nature seriously, and europe will pay a price for this.
the choice of the eur 1 million limit is based on preliminary studies carried out in order to preserve the general nature of article 55. we hope that this simplification, which is a kind of de minimis clause, will enable us to speed up the application of funds to member states and their regions, in particular for the most innovative operations in areas such as research, the promotion of renewable energy sources, etc.
this should make the management of projects, which often involve local and regional authorities, and which concern environmental protection, innovation, energy, etc., more operational.
the aim of these amendments is to simplify effectively the existing rules on the structural funds in the interest and for the benefit of citizens in important areas such as the environment, social inclusion, research, competitiveness and energy.
in addition, the report advocates an integrated approach to coastal tourism, covering issues such as the marine and coastal environment, maritime transport, employment in coastal areas, support for smes and support for fisheries.
cohesion policy, as currently defined, allows coastal regions to invest in the development of their coastal areas and islands by prioritising investments in ports, maritime research, energy from coastal sources, maritime heritage and, of course, in coastal tourism.
in particular, outside the peak season, tourism can help to compensate for local weakening in fishing, agriculture, heavy industry and transport however, i would like to point out that it is up to the coastal regions to choose the best projects to improve the competitiveness of their economies and to promote sustainable tourism at local level.
in conclusion, let me thank the rapporteur again for the good work she has done in the report and remind her that tourism has a positive impact on coastal regions when it is properly controlled from the point of view of sustainability.
i share his view that the broader agreement should cover issues such as legislative cooperation on ground and air safety, route management and air traffic control, the environment, technology and research, and issues related to business and industrial cooperation.
in particular, provisions have been introduced to ensure a high level of environmental protection by introducing limit values for harmful emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter.
the adoption of a climate package now, even in a slightly more acceptable but still bad shape, is simply absurd.
identity is not a pathology in europe, but really, the extra energy must be put on unity.
i shall mention three points, apart from those of georgia and the economic crisis: neighbourhood, climate, security and defence.
on climate and energy, i would just like to thank the french presidency for its empathy and understanding of the sensitivities of the new member countries.
but whether it is the energy-climate package, economic recovery or security policy, we must all apply ourselves in a coordinated way to these efforts, that is, the institutions and the citizens.
the recent european summit is a landmark event and, for the new member states, it is being compared to the accession negotiations and treaties, given the importance of the energy and climate package.
i was pleased to hear about the unity of the union, its ability to reach a difficult compromise on the energy and climate package.
only in 2020 will we know whether we have succeeded in achieving the climate and energy goals, the so-called 3 x 20% target, and whether the economies of the new member states, and in particular poland, have successfully modernised their energy sector without incurring excessive and drastic economic and social costs.
the lack of democracy in the eu is a clear reflection of the climate package that emerging economies, including poland, are pushing in the name of bailing out the crisis-ridden old member states.
the european union during the french presidency in the economic area was dominated by the activities related to the climate and energy package and the financial crisis.
the climate and energy package should be tailored to the level and specificities of individual economies and their sectors.
i would remind you that before the council meeting, a compromise was reached on three of the six reports in the climate and energy package, and it was a clumsy compromise.
in thanking the rapporteur and in supporting the compromise in the draft renewable energy directive, i would like to make a few comments.
renewable energy is energy that uses wind, solar, geothermal, ocean waves, river run-off, biomass and biogas.
unfortunately, sometimes renewable energy installations can, but do not have to, cause environmental damage or a reduction in food production.
the cost of renewable energy should also be reduced through innovative solutions.
and we should be counting the costs, including the environmental damage from conventional sources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community.
let's not waste the treasures of our mother earth.
by 2020, 20% of the energy consumed should come from renewable sources.
today, renewable energy accounts for 8.5% of total consumption.
it is noteworthy that local authorities are increasingly and willingly using renewable energy.
the benefits are many: additional jobs, income, taxes, and above all, renewable energy.
a whole carbon reduction system based on unverified hypotheses will not improve the environment or human conditions.
the aim of the document was to maximise carbon reduction by forcing the use of a dangerous, environmentally unjustified ccs technology.
we do not want to destroy the environment by making senseless garbage out of geological formations and destroying economies that will lose their competitiveness with third countries by plunging them into recession.
moreover, by spreading to other sectors of the economies of the member states, the ets is a convenient tool for converting those economies towards taking over the fiscal policy competences of the member states' authorities by gradually phasing out the existing taxes and replacing them with arbitrarily determined environmental taxes.
the european commission's proposal was that large industrial plants and power stations that emit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere would have to buy permits at special auctions.
we've managed to avoid this catastrophic scenario and have introduced solutions that will lead to increases in energy, but not that big.
it's important to look at the whole energy issue.
the european parliament has therefore already proposed the creation of a high-level energy policy officer responsible for coordinating all policy strategies covering the external aspects of energy security, such as energy, environment, trade, transport and competition.
today, the question is the role of the european commission, which has prepared its proposal in a totally biased way, without taking into account the situation of the countries whose energy is based on coal, that is, one third of the countries of the european union.
it was the french presidency that saved the common approach to climate change.
it was the french presidency that made it possible to conclude the energy agreement, and i thank minister borloo and minister kosciuszko-morizet for that.
we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, at least 20%!
we have thus created a common european union climate policy.
we also need to fund a strategic energy technology program.
this will be the beginning of our common energy policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in the debate on action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i would like to draw attention to the following points: 1.the new member states, taking 2005 as the reference year for the co2 reduction scale, agreed not to take into account in the negotiations the carbon reductions they had made as a result of the industrial restructuring that had been ongoing since 1990. in the case of poland, the co2 reduction scale between 1990 and 2005 was around 30% and entailed huge social costs, especially over 20% unemployment.
2. committing to further reductions of 20% by 2020 and simultaneously buying emission allowances in 2013 - 30% and gradually up to 100% by 2020 will unfortunately mean significant increases in electricity and heat prices for the population, as well as significant increases in energy prices for industry.
the latter may lead to the elimination of many energy-intensive manufacturing sectors such as metallurgy, cement, lime and fertilisers in these countries, with all the negative social consequences of this.
3. if the european union, the united states and south-east asia do not join the co2 emissions equally into the scheme, the enormous economic and financial effort of the european union will be negligible.
the european union is responsible for 14% of global co2 emissions, and the us and south-east asia for over 80% of these emissions.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy.
the ccs technology currently available appears to be an appropriate means of neutralising the greenhouse effect in a relatively short time.
it seems that a geological carbon storage system is the best possible solution for our times.
we can say very clearly that we, as the european union, we, as parliament, are doing everything we can to ensure that people, our citizens, live better and better in terms of protecting the environment.
the second point is that the new products we are planning must find buyers, and what the rapporteur, mr sacconi, has proposed to us shows that these good qualities, namely the protection of the environment, the ability to produce these types of cars and then to find acceptance in the market, can be fulfilled, and i thank you for that.
(microphone initially off) ..are responsible for about a third of the greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere.
however, in view of the achievement of the ultimate objective of reducing harmful emissions, we must also take account of the arguments of car manufacturers, since the european automotive industry is one of the symbols of europe's economic power and employs thousands of workers.
the current debate on the 'green package' confirms the ambitious goals europe is setting in the fight against climate change.
the automotive industry is part of the european strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, reduce the energy consumption of the economy and increase the share of energy from renewable sources by 2020 compared to 1990. this is particularly relevant for co2 reduction activities.
according to eu figures, cars currently account for 12% of total emissions of this gas in the community.
the high level of emissions is mainly due to the increasing number of cars and the increased use of road transport, which is not offset by improvements in engine design or reductions in vehicle weight.
first of all, i'd like to thank minister borloo for his excellent preparation and completion of the negotiations on the climate package.
unfortunately, the third energy package was already weaker during the french presidency, but i take this opportunity to thank commissioner piebalgs for his work in the first half of this year, because we have managed to implement the third energy package to a large extent in parliament, thanks to continuous discussions with the commission and the many amendments we have introduced.
i think that in the climate package we have a problem with what are called windfall profits.
so, now that we've taken such a big step towards protecting the environment in the climate package, we need to think about market action.
increased competition, energy security, the single market - these are all things that our customers are looking forward to most.
i have a specific question for the french presidency: during the debate on the energy and climate package, has there been any change in the positions of the individual countries in relation to the third energy package?
because today it is clear that the completion of the third energy package is absolutely necessary for the implementation of the climate package.
in addition to the economy, food security and energy, we must also ensure the development of backward regions, such as the eastern wall.
the current budget does not reflect the will of many of us in the european parliament in terms of the current situation, such as the need to counter the growing economic crisis or to finance new technologies that improve the environment and combat climate change.
the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme document is ancillary to the necessary technical measures that are intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
for example, in poland, a cheap energy-saving light bulb cost about 5 pln, but after being encouraged to buy it by the propaganda for reducing energy consumption, it costs more than 10 pln.
this money, spent in a stupid, stupid way, could be used for the real fight for a clean, fair environment, for clean air, free of pollution, for combating toxic gases and for clean water, which europe lacks and will lack more and more.
a trillion dollars spent in this way would only reduce the temperature by 0.12 degrees, which cannot have the slightest effect on the course of climate processes.
the emissions trading system will be crucial to reducing carbon emissions.
the economic transformation in these countries has already led to significant reductions in carbon emissions.
carbon capture is certainly a very interesting question from a technical point of view.
unfortunately, the expected technical success must be paid for by high costs and energy consumption.
at present, in the very difficult economic situation of companies linked to the financial crisis, it seems that all the funds should be directed to energy saving activities and the modernisation and construction of clean power plants that, instead of storing co, radically reduce its emissions without additional costs.
the corbey report on the monitoring and reduction of greenhouse gases from fuels is an important issue in the policy of reducing the greenhouse effect.
this would result in a radical reduction in co emissions.
one of the european union's renewable energy goals is to revitalise cities in central and eastern europe by improving energy efficiency.
the modernisation of public transport and local heating systems with alternative energy sources is of great importance not only for the energy sector but also for environmental protection.
for example, over €720 million has been allocated to the intelligent energy programme, which promotes energy diversification and renewable energy.
− i voted against the adoption by parliament today of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to improve and extend the community's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
the european council's commitment to reduce the community's total greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, and even by 30% if other developed countries commit themselves to comparable emission reductions, is in my view an ill-considered step that is hurting industry and consumers in europe, including in my country, poland.
the main objective of entrepreneurship policy is to create an environment favourable to the creation and development of enterprises.
the improvement of the economic environment includes administrative and legal simplifications and financial, tax, social and environmental impacts that affect the activities of enterprises.
the unification of regulations brings enormous benefits to the entire international business environment.
this is a very sensitive issue today, but we must, particularly in the context of the crisis, simplify without deregulation to build a much safer environment in europe, to ensure the development of small and mediumsized enterprises.