such movements often leave traces of social, environmental and productive disintegration.
the factors that are causing this increase in prices, such as the increase in oil prices, security costs and the reduction of co2 emissions, are persistent and very likely to continue.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources.
the commission considered it necessary to bring an action against the council and the european parliament before the court of justice for not agreeing to the change in the legal basis (environment instead of common commercial policy).
in addition, this sector is subject to significant social expectations, particularly in terms of the environment and road safety.
this close interaction between industry, the environment, energy and transport results in one of the most regulated areas in the eu, covered by some 80 directives and 115 unece regulations.
the report's guidelines point to an integrated environmental approach, combining new engine technologies, the use of cleaner fuels and additional efforts in the field of traffic management, driving behaviour and infrastructure, to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
question no 4 by georgios papastamkos (h-0969/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: initiatives of the slovenian presidency on the new approach to neighbourhood policy and energy the new approach to neighbourhood policy and energy is one of the initiatives of the slovenian presidency.
given that these two issues are closely linked, particularly with regard to the union's strategy for energy self-sufficiency and independence of neighbouring countries, can the council state how it intends to structure the programme of initiatives of the presidency?
how do you envisage the future of energy relations in the wider balkan region?
what action is the council taking with regard to the climate of internal instability in chad following the recent armed clashes on 26 november 2007 in which the chadian army is reported to have killed hundreds of rebel fighters?
question no 8 by avril doyle (h-0975/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the kurdish minority in the west bank subject: biodiversity and climate change according to the fourth assessment report of the un intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), during this century 'the resilience of many ecosystems is likely to be exceeded due to an unprecedented combination of climate change and other global factors' (e.g.
this alone could be the cause of widespread biodiversity loss.
at eu level, the commission's green paper on adaptation to climate change recalls that 'some 20%-30% of animal and plant species identified so far are very likely to be at increased risk of extinction if global average temperatures exceed 1.5-2.5°c'.
what concrete measures does the slovenian presidency intend to take to give priority to the gothenburg objective of sustaining biodiversity loss by 2010 and combating widespread biodiversity loss due to climate change and other global factors?
question no 13 by mr nikolaos vakalis (h-0990/2007) subject: the commission's proposal to establish a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states subject: reduction of vat on environmentally friendly energy products and techniques does the council not agree that it is necessary to adapt community legislation on value added tax (vat) so as to also allow the use of the reduced rate of vat on renewable energy technologies and applications and the improvement of energy efficiency, in addition to what is currently provided for gas and electricity consumption?
- i should like to begin by thanking the members and staff of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy for the support and the important contributions they have given, particularly through the proposals they have put forward for this report and which have made it possible for it to be voted on unanimously.
the approach to the energy issue is particularly significant, stressing the importance of energy corridors around russia and the dominance of infrastructure and energy sources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
scientific knowledge has given rise to the political will to act, and by 2009 all countries, whether developed, emerging or developing, will commit to differentiated but concrete targets to contribute to combating climate change.
on the positive side, bali has completed the kyoto gaps on issues such as forest management, the need to support adaptation especially in poorer countries, the role of technology and the extension of climate responsibilities to economies not traditionally considered developed.
much will need to be looked at in detail, but the quantification of renewable energy targets, the clarification of sustainability criteria for biofuels and the review of climate-related financial instruments are welcome, for example.
i personally welcome the transition of the ets from a national to a sectoral basis, but i believe it is urgent that its compatibility with europe's competitiveness be improved before 2009. the evolution of the emissions trading system to the international level, based on agreements between the world's largest producers for the main sectors, may be a way forward.
and if it is true that time is running against us, it is no less true that it is better to waste time making the right choices than to decide rashly and ineffectively.
the reason for the serious threats of military aggression, the provocations and the rashness about iran's nuclear programme is that this country has the world's largest hydrocarbon reserves and the us and the eu are trying to create the conditions, including the manipulation of public opinion, to control its energy resources and the entire middle east, as iraq is demonstrating here.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the outcome of the bali conference on climate change (cop 13 and cop/mop 3) because, in view of the urgency of slowing down the increasing global warming process, i consider the agreement reached in bali to be an important step towards a new protocol being agreed and adopted in copenhagen in 2009 with renewed targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
of course, because if the objective is to reduce co2 emissions mainly from the combustion of fossil fuels, the question arises of measuring these emissions.
as several experts in this field point out, to reduce emissions and meet targets, it was more effective and simpler to monitor an instrument approved on the basis of a protocol on the international extraction and marketing of fossil fuels.
− last december, the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change met in bali, and progress was made on many aspects of climate protection on a global scale.
i am voting in favour of the resolution of the temporary committee on climate change because it defends the results achieved in bali, makes a number of comments on the role of the eu in the future negotiations, which i agree with, and highlights what was less developed in the bali action plan.
to avoid a reduction in economic and social activities, it is therefore necessary to deliberately reduce unnecessary consumption, waste in conversion, transport and distribution processes and final consumption.
energy, being non-recyclable after use and scarce at its sources, needs to be managed according to technical know-how and complex political priorities, and therefore requires central planning by states in the public interest, excluding themselves from the fluctuations and sentiments of market actors.
other well-intentioned recommendations are directed at life and activities in cities and metropolitan areas, with potentially very positive consequences for the renewal and innovation of energy networks, buildings, transport and other public utilities.
in this sense, and because this report reinforces the need for sustainable fishing in accordance with the principles of the reformed cfp, my vote is in favour.
on the contrary, these rules must be modernised and incorporate universal values such as the defence of decent work, the protection of the environment and the climate or public health.
on the other hand, it is essential to rely on the ability of european companies to cope with the growing economic efficiency and competitiveness of companies in these countries, which implies the need to rely without hesitation on the competitiveness and innovation of our companies, which can only take place in a free, open and transparent environment.
in the resolution we are presenting, we therefore insist on the need to replace the lisbon strategy with a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development, which opens up new horizons for europe, horizons of full employment and non-discrimination, decent jobs with rights, better wages, economic and social cohesion and adequate public and universal social protection and security, and ultimately ensuring greater social justice.
today, the challenges are more pressing and some conclusions are clear: first, the broad economic policy guidelines and the lisbon strategy must be fully aligned; secondly, a balance must be struck between the stability of policy orientations and the ability to respond to rapidly changing environments, including climate, energy, financial market developments, external trade policy or the role of exchange rates; thirdly, the objectives of social and spatial convergence are today one of the greatest failures of the strategy.
the commissioner said that in the last three years it had increased its capacity for growth, improved the functioning of the market, social reforms, public finances and the environmental component.
as this is an eu-funded project, can the commission state which environmental impact studies have been carried out (directive 85/337/eec oj l 175, 5.7.1985, p. 40) and whether the risks to the sagrada família and other historic buildings have been assessed?
we need a europe that is more present and more influential in solving global problems such as climate change, food security, energy policy, international terrorism, organised crime, immigration, etc.
while europe has prolonged its pause and spent energies in search of a way out of its institutional problems, emerging economies have continued to grow, armed conflicts have widened, climate change has become evident, energy problems have become acute, many people have died from lack of food and medical care.
will europe in a year's time be better prepared to deal with globalisation, energy dependence, the demographic crisis, terrorism, financial instability, the shifting nature of jobs?
just a few examples: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the lisbon strategy, a contribution to the 2008 spring european council, as i believe that the renewed lisbon strategy reinforces the ambitious objectives for european society as a whole, which are fundamental to tackling the opportunities and challenges of globalisation, demographic change, social imbalances, climate change, energy security, food security, economic growth and the integration of immigrants.
once again, the majority of the european parliament rejects a change of policy and expresses its full support for and involvement in the policies pursued so far: deregulation of labour markets and relations, liberalisation of essential goods and services (post, transport, telecommunications, energy, etc.)
the balance of national public finances is a priority, but this balance must be achieved at the expense of reducing waste, rejecting non-productive expenditure and fairly sharing the burden of revenue.
i mean, just putting these countries up for sale... and, consistent with the objective set out above, the eu's overriding interests in the considerable energy resources of the countries of this region are also highlighted, pointing out the need to ensure, without interruption on transport routes and with the greatest possible regularity, their energy supply.
i believe that the future of these relations, in the direction of greater stability and security and greater political, economic and social cooperation, must also take account of the human rights situation in each country and the strengthening of trade relations and energy cooperation, as well as meeting the development needs, combined with the commitments made to improve the living conditions of the citizens of this region.
this is why it is necessary to replace the lisbon strategy with a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development, which opens up new horizons for europe, with decent jobs with rights, especially for women and young people, shorter working hours without loss of pay, better wages, eliminating discrimination, particularly wage discrimination, which affects women, greater economic and social cohesion, adequate protection and universal public social security, ensuring a better quality of life and greater social justice.
and of course, progress towards greater sustainability of social security systems is essential.
that is why the commission included the green paper on territorial cohesion in our legislative and work programme for 2008. even if there is no standard definition of the concept yet, territorial cohesion synthesises the legal objectives of the union to achieve a sustainable balance and harmonious development of its territory and also to provide equity of access to services of general interest.
secondly, cohesion policy and the financial means associated with it should be used to promote economic, social, environmental and territorial development projects, and should not be subordinated to a policy that has as its priority and dogma competition, deregulation or the so-called adaptability and entrepreneurship that are priorities of the lisbon strategy.
a third point to note is that cohesion policy must increasingly take into account and respond to challenges such as those posed by globalisation, migration, ageing of the population, climate change, energy diversification, research and technological development.
the challenges we now face, such as globalisation, population decline, desertification of certain regions or climate change, combined with the increasing frequency and scale of natural disasters, are much more demanding and require greater effort on our part.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
- i also begin by congratulating the rapporteur and telling him that the envi committee believes that a combination of measures is necessary to ensure a sustainable transport system for future generations.
we support the inclusion of aviation in the european emissions trading scheme and advocate similar legislation for the maritime transport sector, as well as the adoption of ambitious and binding limit values for co2 emissions from cars, making them more fuel efficient.
it is therefore desirable that the european union should support research to develop technologies necessary for the creation of sustainable and environmentally friendly transport, such as the development of alternative and renewable fuels such as hydrogen and fuel cells.
the european union's policy is inspired by other values and has as its main concerns the sustainability of resources and an effective partnership approach.
for several years now, we have been talking about globalisation and climate change, about the insecurity of our borders and the instability of our neighbourhood.
in the field of civil aviation, it is therefore essential that we have flexible instruments which can create a maximum protection environment for citizens and which can be easily and properly evaluated.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr luís manuel capoulas santos on a proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau, as i considered that it was a balanced agreement which ensured the sustainability of fisheries and at the same time guaranteed the protection of the interests of both parties involved: the european union and guinea-bissau.
− the main objective of the new eu-ivory coast partnership agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the parties in order to foster the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the ivorian fishing zone, with particular attention to supporting the ivorian fisheries policy.
the two parties shall decide jointly on the priorities to be set for such support and shall define the objectives, the annual and multiannual programming and the criteria for assessing the results achieved, with a view to ensuring the sustainable and responsible management of the sector.
- it is impossible to comment on all the important issues raised by this ep own-initiative report in this explanation of vote, given its complexity and breadth, but it is only to be noted that the document does not address, or addresses incorrectly, aspects which researchers point out as essential in addressing the problems of transport, energy and their impact on the environment.
− in recent decades, the transport sector has made major investments in energy efficiency, which have been successful and have brought environmentally and safety-wise technology to the market.
i am referring to the more sensitive issues, such as the direction and pace of the withdrawal of aid, a fairer mechanism for redistributing support, a responsible approach to the future of the milk sector, the new challenges, in particular the role of agriculture in combating climate change and the production of biofuels, etc.
it is therefore wrong to insist on dissociating aid from production and employment, and it is unacceptable to pursue a policy of supporting large landowners and multinational food companies and to devalue farmers who maintain agricultural and livestock production on the basis of the defence of biodiversity, food security and product quality.
we also insist on the need for the european commission to take account, in the context of the world trade organisation negotiations, of the specific features of agricultural production as a food production sector, a structural element of the territorial balances of environmental protection and safeguarding adequate levels of food safety, both in terms of quantity and quality.
this joint is complex and does not arise spontaneously: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and it is a very important one.
despite the turbulence of the international financial crisis and the increase in the price of energy, in particular fossil fuels, the evolution of public debt and public deficits, economic growth and job creation have been undeniably positive.
we need more and better lisbon strategy anchored in a pact for growth and jobs that invests in knowledge and innovation, supports sustainable development and includes an environmental agenda and harnesses the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises.
economic growth is important not only to ensure a good standard of living for europeans but also to ensure the sustainability of economic and social cohesion policies.
this is why it is important to insist on replacing the lisbon strategy with a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development.
− the european commission presented, in its january 2007 energy package, a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy statistics.
although we have some reservations about certain amendments, we agree that, as it stands, the statistics produced by the major international organisations such as eurostat are structured on the basis of accounting instruments designed in a period entirely dominated by fossil fuels and which are intended to monitor the operation of the energy sector solely from the point of view of supply.
the development over the last thirty years has led to a growing gap between the initial objective of these instruments and their ability to represent energy realities.
the risk of distortion in knowledge and assessment of energy realities leading to unfounded decisions thus increases from year to year.
the commission proposal is the result of work carried out in 2003, 2004 and early 2005, largely ignoring the documents on energy issues published by the commission in march 2006 (green paper on energy) and january 2007 (energy package).
but we welcome the rejection of the re-nationalisation of the cap, the call for restructuring measures and the strengthening of key agricultural sectors (such as the dairy sector, the dairy cattle sector and sheep farming) and the approval of our proposals that the european commission should take account, in the world trade organisation negotiations, of the specific features of agricultural production as a food production sector, a structural element of the territorial balances of environmental protection and safeguarding adequate levels of food security.
the current reality of agricultural markets, consumption patterns, environmental needs and future trends require a rethinking of the assumptions, concepts and rules of the common agricultural policy and a reform of the common agricultural policy accordingly.
i believe that women have a key role to play in promoting local and social growth, and that proposals to improve the living conditions of women in rural areas, such as the creation of education and training infrastructure at all levels; the promotion of equal access to the labour market; the encouragement of female entrepreneurship; and the development of quality social and health services are essential for sustainable rural development.
we agree, in particular, that we should not start with 'dedicated' biomass but rather use waste from various sources, which makes them more energy-efficient and economically viable, and mitigates or solves serious environmental problems.
it is also positive that it states that biogas has a far greater energy potential than liquid biofuels, which has been ignored by the european commission.
biomethane can and should also be produced from etar, landfill and industrial waste, and of course from livestock waste.
i am voting in favour of the tabajdi report because i believe that the use of biogas has two benefits, since it can contribute to the security and sustainability of the eu's energy supply, but also allows farmers to develop new sources of income.
the contribution of biogas to the pursuit of the recently launched targets for the contribution of renewable energy by 2020 could be of particular relevance.
i understand, mr president, but the more time we waste on these questions, the more we are limiting the right of other members to be answered to the questions they have also legitimately asked.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
as has been pointed out here today, there are also transfrontier movements and the environmental impacts caused by these movements.
i am not going to hide the fact that some people would like the minimum threshold to reflect more clearly the environmental concerns that drive us.
the approach adopted was to approximate the minimum and maximum tax thresholds, which, in some cases, sacrificed these environmental objectives in favour of reducing fiscal distortions of competition.
this means trying to use the privileged relationship of the eastern european countries, which joined the eu in 2004, as an instrument of eu intervention (taking into account the interests of its major powers and its major economic and financial groups, in particular in the field of energy) in the countries of the commonwealth of independent states, the western balkans and the caucasus.
it is true that the so-called former eastern countries had a long tradition of 'cooperation' with africa, and it is possible that, in completely different terms, the links remain; but what is more important is that these countries, which are still facing the costs of their reforms with great energy, are now able to contribute, with the active consent of their populations, to cooperation and development.
the proposal for a directive aims to reduce the differences in diesel prices between the member states, which distort competition and the environment in road transport.
the debate will continue on the oral question to the commission on the fight against cancer in the enlarged european union, tabled by mr miroslav ouzký on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0014/2008 - b6-0015/2008).
all programmes in the cultural sector have very positive aspects for cohesion, real convergence, economic growth, sustainable development, innovation, employment and competitiveness, but this should not make us forget that culture and cultural products have a value in themselves.
this is a complex and controversial issue, but one of the utmost importance for all those concerned with the sustainability of resources, but including in this concept the sustainability of the most precious resource of all, the people who make up europe's many fishing communities.
this debate is of the utmost importance for the community fisheries sector, as it opens the door to greater biological sustainability for resources and greater market intervention capacity for those responsible for the sector.
'a policy of fiscal consolidation and stability', 'structural reform of public finances', 'privatization' and 'improvement of the business environment', agrarian reform (i.e.
cancer is caused by many factors in multiple stages, requiring more prevention that addresses both lifestyle-related causes and causes related to occupational activity and the environment.
- i voted in favour of the riitta myller report on the mid-term evaluation of the sixth community environment action programme, given the importance of ensuring that the objectives set out therein are met, particularly as regards the thematic strategies, the protection of biodiversity and the application of community legislation, not forgetting issues such as environmental taxation or the problem of subsidies for activities harmful to the environment.
more efforts are needed to respond in a timely manner to the environmental problems addressed by the targets set out in the programme.
− this report is the result of an evaluation commissioned by the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety to find out to what extent the european union has so far honoured its commitments under the sixth community environment action programme, which was adopted in 2002 and runs until 2012. this evaluation revealed that the implementation of the action programme is very or extremely late in respect of several priority objectives.
it concluded that, in the light of the measures taken so far, it did not appear that the programme's priority environmental objectives would be achieved by 2012. the evaluation therefore does not support the european commission's assertion in its own mid-term evaluation that, overall, the eu is up to date with the implementation of the measures set out in the action programme.
the whole of european cultural history, like its history in general, is not only built up of diversity and admirable creative energy and progress, but also of violent antagonistic confrontation, of intolerance, of multiple lines and contexts of cultural domination.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission green paper entitled 'adaptation to climate change in europe - possible action by the european union', because i share the conviction that adaptation measures are a guarantee against the negative and unavoidable effects of climate change.
the early design of adaptation strategies for agriculture, water management, land use planning or public health is part of the desirable attitude in the formulation of environmental policies at community level.
− it is known that the working group ii contribution to the fourth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change predicts that almost all european regions will be negatively affected by some of the future consequences of climate change.
this could be a new threat to europe's biodiversity and could undermine social development, requiring a truly transversal approach and involving the inclusion of social, economic and environmental aspects in their broadest sense.
it is good to recognise that there are numerous studies and models at regional or local level on the likely impacts of climate change, but many of these studies lack a parallel perspective on the socio-economic dimension and the foreseeable consequences for the affected populations.
it is good that the commission is invited to coordinate and support the scientific preparation of a common european database on vulnerabilities, in order to try to understand how cultural and national groups and heritages may be affected and may react to the consequences of climate change in the future.
but we disagree on others, like keeping the emissions business going.
the vessel is known to have suffered several fuel and oil spills between august 2007 and february 2008. we all know that the consequences of these accidents are not confined to the borders of the member states, and that they have a detrimental effect on the environment and on the people living along the river.
these are pertinent questions and they require an urgent response, because this accident does not concern only the spanish authorities or gibraltar, but is the kind of accident whose consequences in terms of the environment, maritime safety and the marine economy affect us all.
on the other hand, and among other important points, we disagree with the eib's aim of completing the single market by financing infrastructure aimed at liberalising markets - as is the case with energy - or with its emphasis on financing so-called public-private partnerships, in a logic of using public means to finance large private capital.
the following examples are not exhaustive: the agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the eu member states (frontex), the european railway agency, the european environment agency, the european agency for reconstruction (balkans), the european food safety authority, the european maritime safety agency, the european aviation safety agency, etc.
we know the different causes, but we are far from knowing the weight of each of them in the present situation: simply increased demand, biofuels, the coincidence of bad harvests in various parts of the world, the consequences of climate change, pure speculation arising from the previous causes?
how can we produce more without compromising the sustainability of resources, and what alternatives can be found, especially for animal feed?
mr president, the increase in demand from emerging economies, the increase in oil prices and climate change are factors which have contributed to the increase in food prices worldwide, but they do not explain everything.
for example, the scientific council of the european environment agency has argued that the eu should suspend the 10% target for biofuels by 2020. even the president of the world bank has pointed out that some countries have nutritional problems and has asked producers of raw materials for biofuels to temporarily abandon their crops.
question no 46 by mr saïd el khadraoui (h-0234/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: particulate matter emissions from mopeds a study by the university of utrecht suggests that mopeds emit large amounts of particulate matter and ultrafine particles.
scientists measured the emissions of bicyclists and motorists in 12 medium-sized cities.
is the commission aware of the environmental pollution caused by mopeds?
question no 47 by mr johan van hecke (h-0243/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: 2.2 billion children in need of help the european union is also committed to the protection of children and young people, and to the protection of the environment.
while it is for the uk government to decide on the allocation of fishing quotas between small and large vessels, does the commission recognise the local and traditional importance of small fishing fleets, some of which have received sustainable development awards?
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
both must assume that only by promoting sustainable development and good governance can their own interests and investments be sustainable and seen as legitimate in africa.
because without respect for human rights there can be no good governance and without good governance and the rule of law that it implies, there will be no sustainable development in africa or anywhere else in the world.
in this report we propose that the eu encourage china to increase its participation in multilateral donor meetings and to adopt specific internationally accepted criteria and guidelines on aid transparency, extractive industries, good governance, environmental protection, labour rights, etc., in order to ensure that africa is making a real contribution to poverty reduction, the millennium development goals and the promotion of peace and security.
in addition to the china factor, which is to be taken into account in many of these countries, the effects of changes in the agricultural and food market, climate change and the new approach of the united states to africa must be considered.
- i voted in favour of the ana gomes report on china's policy and its effects on africa, as i considered that, in the light of china's growing presence on the african continent, the european union should seek, by adopting a common position on dialogue, to encourage china to guide its political and economic action in africa by criteria which do not conflict with the promotion of peace, human security, the rule of law or sustainable development.
unfortunately, in the proposals it is unrealistic, suggesting repeatedly that the eu should encourage china to adopt ideal behaviour in the field of human rights, workers' rights, respect for the environment, and finally to do in its foreign policy what it does not do in its internal policy.
this impact is very clear, particularly in corn gluten feed and in the waste from the use of maize for the production of alcohol.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
joint cooperation actions are needed to protect the environment, biodiversity and forests, and to combat climate change, desertification and water scarcity.
what the eu wants, and deserves our direct opposition, is the appropriation by the big transnational corporations of the wealth created, of natural resources and of biodiversity, at the expense of the exploitation of workers, unemployment, the ruin of millions of small farmers, environmental destruction and progress, the rights and sovereignty of peoples.
− the problem of biodiversity loss is one of the greatest challenges facing society today, and is becoming even more worrying with the effects of climate change.
concern about the loss of biodiversity due to climate change goes beyond the protection of endangered species.
indeed, the reduction of biodiversity makes ecosystems less productive and less effective in the services they provide to human populations.
for example, carbon sequestration decreases dramatically in soils depleted of biodiversity, making climate change even more acute.
- i voted in favour of the report by anne ferreira on the green paper on market instruments for environmental and related policy purposes, recognising that the use of such instruments is essential in the pursuit of workable and effective environmental policies.
measures that improve the functioning of markets, such as the application of the polluter-pays principle, which allow for the imputation of costs to economic activities that result in environmental damage, are a form of state intervention to be encouraged, with evidence of environmental protection.
- i support the anne ferreira report because i consider the use of market-based instruments such as taxation, subsidies or emissions trading for environmental purposes to be an important, but not the only, tool for promoting sustainable development.
although i agree with the report in general terms, i consider it premature to introduce a single european co2 tax, as i consider it not very practical to have this tax coexist with the european emissions trading system.
i also disagree with the idea of replacing existing community provisions for the protection of the environment with market instruments which, by their very nature, are no alternative to regulation.
− following an initiative by the european commission, this report sets out a set of guidelines by the european parliament for the creation of market-based instruments for environmental and related policy purposes - a perspective which raises our most serious reservations and concerns.
the aim is to reduce pollution and protect the environment by applying so-called market measures, implementing the polluter-pays principle, the costs of which will ultimately be borne by final consumers, usually households, who already bear the brunt of paying environmental taxes and duties.
the report even mentions the payment of water consumption fees that reflect the costs of using the resource and the environmental costs.
management oriented towards the principle of ecosystem management is essential.
it is essential to preserve a sustainable fishery.
in order to ensure sustainable exploitation of resources, we welcome the inclusion in the report of the need to invest in scientific research into fisheries, devoting more human and financial resources to it, the adoption of appropriate socioeconomic measures to compensate fishermen for the costs of reducing fishing activity linked to plans for the rebuilding of stocks or the participation of fishermen in the development of measures to protect the marine environment and manage resources.
the resolution, in an (impossible) attempt to disguise the real aims, contradictions and consequences of the creation of the so-called 'transatlantic market', does not fail to express presumed social or environmental concerns.
even amendments stressing the need to take account of the asymmetries between the two regions and the objectives of job creation, sustainable economic development, food sovereignty and security and environmental protection were rejected.
the effects of this policy are visible, such as the rise in energy and food prices, the increase in social and regional inequalities, poverty, hunger and disease.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy on the protection of the environment and sustainable development.
but that must not blind us to another vital question: the commission's proposal is that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in line with the community's objectives.
this forces us, the european union, who are major importers of raw materials, to look at this issue with particular concern and forces us right away, on the one hand, to see the impact this can have worldwide, because it can lead to excessive pressure on the consumption of raw materials with very negative environmental consequences and economic and social organization in developing countries, but it must also force us, the european union, to look within ourselves and to understand our difficulties.
what came out from this conference very strongly is the challenge of double integration of the outermost regions, and also the idea of the outermost regions as test beds with pilot projects, especially in areas like renewable energy.
clearly those identified by the commission – climate change, demographic change and migration management, agriculture and the maritime policy – are not exclusive and we are open to other ideas.
it is an opinion which points to some complementarity with the prospects which the commission has indicated when referring to climate change, etc.
the importance of public services for the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the outermost regions, including air and maritime transport, the postal services, energy and communications, including access to broadband internet, and the urgent adoption of measures to help combat the persistence of unemployment, poverty and income inequalities in these regions, which are among the highest in the european union.
and i would also say that, as lehtinen points out, strong consumer protection will also benefit competitive producers and sellers by creating incentives for companies to produce and sell more durable goods, resulting in more sustainable growth.
on some of the sectoral issues, the commission welcomes the continued emphasis placed by parliament on the environmental dimension of maritime policy, and on the challenges of climate change in particular, and looks forward to the adoption of a strategy for adaptation to climate change in 2008 which will address these concerns.
the commission welcomes the positive attitude of the report towards the need to ensure sustainability in the field of fisheries.
we have taken a number of steps in this direction since the adoption of the ‘blue paper’ such as the adoption of a communication on the ecosystem approach in april 2008, and two proposals on discards, which will be ready by the end of this year.
in addition to specific mention of issues including the environment, maritime transport, research and innovation, social aspects, fisheries and energy, the commission welcomes the particular importance attributed to the regional aspect of maritime policy through the exceptional maritime dimension conferred on the eu by its vast coastline, its islands and its outermost regions, and fully concurs with the view that maritime policy should take into account the various specific features of the member states and maritime regions, including coastal regions, islands and outermost regions.
only in this way will it be an important instrument for meeting the challenges of sustainable development, competitiveness and european economic and social cohesion.
- in this very brief speech, i would like to highlight the inclusion of proposals put forward by the committee on fisheries, which stress that the main objective of a maritime fisheries policy should be to promote the modernisation and sustainable development of this sector, ensuring its socioeconomic viability and the sustainability of resources and guaranteeing sovereignty and food security, the public supply of fish, the maintenance of jobs and the improvement of the living conditions of fishermen; that the creation of more and better jobs linked to the sea, particularly in the fisheries sector, depends on the guarantee of a fair and adequate income for its professionals; the need for compensation mechanisms for fishermen affected by resource recovery measures, the reinforcement of support for scientific research in the various member states, particularly in the framework of the seventh framework programme, or the existence of appropriate community support for the rescue and assistance of vessels.
the energy with which we believed in the potential of this initiative cannot be spent on short-term achievements or on the mere proclamation of generous ideas which, in the end, indicated less ambition than we would have wished.
investing decisively in blue technologies, stimulating a network of maritime clusters where best practices and the most advanced technologies are developed, making the most of the sea in the fight against climate change and its use as a source of renewable energy, promoting maritime transport and coastal tourism, recognising the importance of maritime regions, particularly the outermost regions, in security and defence against illegal immigration, trafficking, smuggling and terrorist threats and, of course, ensuring an integrated strategic vision and sustainable funding of these policies, are ways we must follow if we want to succeed.
i come from an old maritime nation, portugal, and an island and outermost region, madeira, and i support this report with great enthusiasm because it ensures, among other fundamental aspects, that the ors are properly recognised in the effective implementation of maritime policy because of their position and their vast knowledge, including in innovation, research, the environment, etc.
secondly, by better management and sustainable exploitation of marine resources and adequate combating of climate change, enhancing coastal areas, supporting environmentally friendly maritime transport and an effective port policy, supporting marine research, promoting social rights in accordance with pre-agreed international requirements, lifelong learning and also supporting tourism, which is one of the key activities in this maritime policy.
we must therefore take a comprehensive view not only of the seas as such, but also of the close relationship with coastal areas and everything related to them: employment, environmental issues, regional development, economic development, the focus on marine research and excellence, and a whole series of sectoral policies which, if tackled together, will allow for greater coherence and success in the policies put into practice, and this will result in greater social, economic and environmental sustainability, which is absolutely crucial.
the alternative mobility of the seas and the wave energy challenge are also promising on the ground and will certainly bring much hope for economic solutions in the future, which are of course sustainable and deserve support.
i would like to stress, however, the point of the ecosystem approach to maritime policy.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the use of fossil fuels.
this proposal, which establishes the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, is the result of the work of the european technology platform on fuel cells and hydrogen and aims to contribute to the implementation of the environmental technologies action plan.
these are very quiet and highly efficient energy conversion units which could allow for a substantial cumulative reduction of greenhouse gas and other pollutant emissions, as they can run on hydrogen or other fuels such as natural gas, ethanol or methanol.
the introduction of hydrogen as a highly flexible energy carrier could contribute positively to energy security and to the stabilisation of energy prices, since hydrogen can be produced from any primary energy source, thus introducing a certain diversity in the transport sector, which is currently dependent on oil.
in the new international context, various factors and components of production can be considered as raw materials, including energy.
markets respond to increased demand from more producers, while facing natural and environmental constraints and reacting to financial speculation.
the negotiations on these products should never come down to the regional level, in order to promote integration, development and sustainability.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the development of the specific strengths of the outermost regions is thus the strategy to ensure the sustainable development of the outermost regions in areas of attraction and cooperation.
the introduction of climate change, demographic change and the management of migration flows, agriculture and maritime policy as new priorities is a good measure, to be complemented by the necessary diversification of the outermost regions' economies, with their specific characteristics and the widest possible application of the rules in force, using the most appropriate instruments to solve the specific problems of the outermost regions.
its liberalisation; insists on the initiatives aimed at creating a european coast guard, an area of competence for each member state; advocates the incorporation of shipping into emissions trading, another business; and, paradoxically (or not...) advocates that maritime policy be properly taken into account from 2013 onwards in the community budget (???
− it is positive that the closure of mercury mines in the community poses environmental and social problems and that projects and other initiatives should continue to be supported on the basis of available funding instruments in order to enable the affected areas to find viable solutions for the environment, employment and local economic activities.
we also believe that it is right to encourage the provision of technical assistance to developing countries and countries with economies in transition, including assistance aimed at facilitating the transition to alternative mercury-free technologies and the phasing out of the uses and emissions of mercury and mercury compounds.
but there is still an insistence that the community legislature should be able to impose on the member states the obligation to impose penalties to ensure that the rules it adopts on environmental protection are fully effective.
- ship dismantling continues to have a significant social and ecological impact, both because of the way it is done, which can harm the environment, and because the number of ships under construction has been increasing over the years.
hence the importance of continuous innovation and development in the shipbuilding sector in the member states in order to improve shipbuilding and make it less harmful from an environmental point of view.
since 2005, imo has been working with the ilo and the united nations environment programme to develop binding international standards for the environmentally sound dismantling of ships.
- european concerns about the environment and working conditions in third countries deserve our agreement in principle.
the export of conditions of misery, whether environmental, labour or otherwise, can never be part of our vision of trade and world trade.
the adoption of drastic measures which end practices which are in fact social or environmental dumping, but which also involve the destruction of an economic sector in a third country and which thus plunge a deeply vulnerable part of the population into even greater misery, is not in line with what we are advocating.
- i voted in favour of the interim report of the temporary committee on climate change on the scientific evidence on climate change (conclusions and recommendations for decision-making), as i am convinced that the broad consensus within the scientific community on the role of anthropogenic causes in climate change reflects the urgent need for increased action by the political powers, with particular attention to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and a future international climate agreement.
the deepening and dissemination of scientific understanding of climate change will enable people to become more aware of the phenomenon, so as to change their lifestyles, and will make decision-making processes more responsible, informed and effective.
stimulating research on the economic and social impacts of climate change should be a priority.
- this is another report which, although it starts from some correct findings on the current situation, does little or nothing to help find the solutions that are needed, is not clear in the measures it advocates, and limits itself to listing vague proposals and justifications, which seems more likely to facilitate the launching of new companies that want to obtain more and more profits from new activities in the areas of the environment and energy, at the expense of climate change.
i therefore feel that it would be good to have comparable effort and persistence, and equal concern, for other global problems which are either ignored or merely kept on the list of chronic concerns - elimination of curable diseases, protection of soils and habitats, depletion of finite resources, especially hydrocarbons... the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is properly implemented, and calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the environmental policy is properly implemented.
− the scientific facts focused on in this report have been discussed in depth with world experts during the meetings of the interim committee on climate change and cannot therefore be lightly questioned.
like the florenz report, i welcome the ipcc 4th report as the most comprehensive study on climate change and agree that it is absolutely necessary to avoid a rise in global temperature of more than 2oc in order to avoid the most catastrophic scenarios, suggesting that the ambitious european targets for reducing ghg emissions should be maintained.
as a compendium of the most credible information available today, and cutting through the recurring ideas of a few isolated extremists who continue to question human action as the main cause of global warming, the florenz report is a clear sign that the european parliament will maintain its position of rigour and ambition in the fight against climate change, and i therefore support it.
what i have been advocating, and insisting on, is that in the face of the foreseeable increase in consumption (in particular energy) by huge masses of the population, due to the positive effects of globalisation, we must look for scientific answers, technological solutions.
it is a vast territory occupying an important geostrategic position between europe, asia and the middle east, playing a central role in the dispute over the control and access to central asian energy resources (as exemplified by the nabucco project) and playing a pivotal role in the us/nato/eu partnership.
climate change is causing an increase in natural disasters.
preventing global warming is everyone's responsibility.
it is therefore necessary that china also contributes to reducing co2 emissions by supporting the european union's efforts to reach an international agreement by the copenhagen conference in december 2009.
in a recent letter to the london times, nine former british military commanders appealed to the uk government to join those who advocate a ban on cluster bombs.
we say yes to the alternative energy targets, but it is obvious that the food problem and the hunger that seems to be growing makes many people wonder whether biofuels are the right move.
the question i ask, and while agreeing that we must make progress in alternative energy, is whether you are in a position to assure and say publicly, to assure citizens that this way is not detrimental to the cost of food products and to increasing world hunger.
competition between energy sources and food orchestrates their prices.
we are faced with issues of scarcity, sustainability, safety and ecology.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste.
- this resolution continues the reach process, which we abstained from voting on because we considered that it did not meet the legitimate rights and concerns of consumers, small and mediumsized enterprises, the protection of workers and the protection of the environment.
we felt that the necessary balance between the protection of workers' health, the protection of the environment and industrial development was not fully achieved, because the rights of consumers were not properly guaranteed, with the restriction of the right to information and the right to health of workers.
it is equally important to ensure that specific provisions, similar to rights already provided for in the convention, which enhance public participation at regional and global level, are also included in other conventions and treaties dealing with environmental issues.
so although there are some unclear points in the european parliament's resolution, we have generally supported it because we believe it is important to help create universal conditions for access to justice and to proceedings involving environmental matters.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
unemployment is also justifying an increasingly precarious work environment to which the government is responding with more attempts to roll back labour rights.
it is precisely because sustainable fishing standards are not being met that fishermen are facing this crisis, and this is the fundamental lesson i hope we can all learn.
− madam president, mr freitas’ report deals with a proposal that opens the way to the introduction of the principle of environmental impact assessments in the fisheries field.
the proposal fully embodies the ecosystem approach, which the commission is committed to implementing under the common fisheries policy.
in addition, without an observer on board, the very important ‘move away rule’ in case the vessel accidentally encounters an uncharted ecosystem will simply be inoperative as it is impossible to monitor compliance with this rule by vms.
in international waters, the protection of the marine environment is the general responsibility of regional marine conventions, where they exist, while the adoption of measures for the conservation and management of living marine resources and the regulation of the impact of fishing on vulnerable ecosystems is the responsibility of regional fisheries management organisations.
above all, what i think is most important is that we have fully coherent legislation and the problem of the thousand metres is that it is meaningless to say that you cannot fish beyond the thousand metres outside european waters and that you can fish beyond the thousand metres within european waters - it is meaningless from the point of view of the environmental coherence of the legislation.
but it must also concentrate on its security functions, security in the sense of strongly countering and combating counterfeiting and piracy, combating situations of absolutely unfair competition which affect some european companies, particularly in weaker sectors, and protecting the environment and public health, which are now goods which our communities increasingly value.
the barcelona process exists because there are a number of central issues in european policy which concern the relationship with the south: energy, the fight against terrorism, demography and immigration, economic development and the fight against crime are some of these issues.
it is a threat to the sustainability of resources and marine biodiversity and has serious economic consequences for fishermen who are legally fishing.
− the sustainability of fisheries resources is essential to ensure the long-term viability of fishing and the socioeconomic viability of the fisheries sector.
illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing threatens this sustainability and jeopardises the viability of the sector and the fishing communities that depend on it.
for example, as regards the definition of 'vulnerable marine ecosystem', the report stresses the need to find a definition, in particular within the fao and in accordance with the 'best scientific information', given the lack of in-depth scientific knowledge about these ecosystems.
the commission put forward a set of priorities, such as transport (pointing to the 'possibility of establishing a system of concessions' to the private sector and 'accompanied by government measures to liberalize trade and to abolish the various non-tariff barriers which hinder it') and 'deepening the integration of energy markets'.
this ageing of the agricultural population is worrying for the future of european agriculture, and i therefore find the veraldi report very relevant in considering the various aspects relating to the expectations and opportunities for young farmers - who have a key role in the sustainable development of european rural areas.
but the issue is becoming more serious, because natural disasters are linked to climate change.
in 2006, the european parliament adopted three reports on this subject, and in one of these reports by the rapporteur of the committee on the environment, the commission was proposed to present a directive on fires.
i ask the commission: in view of what is happening and in view of the need for an integrated approach to this matter - that is, we cannot dissociate climate change policy from civil protection policy - i ask the commission whether there is no justification for a fire directive in this context.
for example, biomass must be harnessed to clean up forests, preventing fires, and at the same time used to produce energy.
however, as we mark the 10th anniversary of the euro, we must incorporate the lessons of the journey, lessons on the sustainability of the process and the impacts on real convergence associated with the single currency.
there may be room for progress in the application of the accession criteria and the sustainability and robustness of the process for old and new members deserve reflection.
- i voted in favour of caroline jackson's recommendation for second reading on the revision of the waste framework directive, as i considered that this proposal should contribute to reducing the environmental and socioeconomic impacts resulting from waste management, taking into account that the reduction, prevention, reuse and recycling of waste should be a priority throughout the european union.
i voted in favour of amendment no 82, because i advocate more ambitious waste recycling targets for all member states, in order to ensure an effective european waste prevention policy.
the main changes were the introduction of recycling and waste prevention objectives and the establishment, as a general rule, of a five-stage waste hierarchy.
it wants to see a real link between the directive and the recycling and prevention objectives set out in the thematic strategy on waste prevention and recycling.
one of the important aims of the directive is to establish a clear distinction between recovery and disposal of waste, because the judgments of the court of justice have cast doubt on this issue.
in any case, it seems to us that waste reduction, recycling and recovery should be the priorities.
- i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading by mrs anne laperrouze on environmental quality standards for water, since the good chemical status of surface water in the european union is an indispensable condition for the protection of human health and the environment.
this directive is positive in that it sets limits on the concentration in water of certain pollutants and substances harmful to health and clarifies the obligations of the member states with regard to transboundary pollution.
this is the case with the polluter pays principle, which can only end up defending those who have the money to pay for pollution.
it is enough to pay and then create clean industries to continue the profitable business at the expense of the pollution that, however, they have been allowed to create, eventually destroying rivers, forests, etc.
we consider it essential to act in the area of pollution prevention.
but we know that the framework directive, in article 16, lists different obligations for the commission to submit proposals, namely specific measures against water pollution by certain pollutants or groups of pollutants which pose a significant risk to the aquatic environment or, through this, the establishment of a list of priority substances and, among these, priority hazardous substances and the setting of quality standards for concentrations of priority substances in surface water, sediments or biota.
− the european parliament decided to support the position of the commission and the council on slovakia's wish to adopt the single currency on 1 january 2009, although it expressed some concerns about the discrepancies between the commission's and the ecb's convergence reports on the sustainability of inflation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i believe that it is essential to tackle urgently the interaction between territorial development and the phenomenon of exclusion in order to achieve the objective of sustainable development, thus making more effective use of the existing financial instruments to combat the asymmetries that still exist.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
on the other hand, the whole of the energy question in the european framework deserves a broader approach with a different perspective for the future.
hence the initiative we took in the stoa panel of this parliament, setting energy scenarios for the next decades with a baseline in 2030. parliament and some parliamentary groups are largely divided on the question of unbundling between energy transmission networks and energy companies.
there are two different and even contradictory views on the question of health and the environment.
while it is true that without an operational electricity and gas market, the european union will find it increasingly difficult to ensure security of supply, the sustainability of a low-carbon energy market and global competitiveness, the truth is that this will only be possible if there is a strong public sector.
with the increase in energy prices and the lack of competition on national markets, there is a danger that more citizens will be excluded from access to energy.
i therefore share the social concerns expressed, as for the first time the concept of energy poverty is defined, drawing attention to the importance of member states developing national plans that include all citizens.
in the current circumstances of national energy markets within the eu, it is not acceptable for the same company to be both the owner of the electricity network and also responsible for the transport of electricity, thus exercising a de facto monopoly, which could block access to the market to new, in many cases more competitive, operators.
the document thus boldly assumes that the level of transparency and competition in the energy sector must be increased, effectively protecting the consumer from the consequences of a closed and closed market.
with the increase in energy prices and the lack of competition on national markets, there is a danger that more citizens will be excluded from access to energy.
i therefore share the social concerns expressed, as for the first time the concept of 'energy poverty' is defined, drawing attention to the importance of member states developing national plans that include all citizens.
in the current circumstances of national energy markets within the eu, it is not acceptable for the same company to be both the owner of the electricity network and the distributor of electricity, thus exercising a de facto monopoly and potentially blocking access to the market for new, in many cases more competitive, operators.
the document thus boldly assumes that the level of transparency and competition in the energy sector must be increased, effectively protecting the consumer from the consequences of a closed market.
− this is another piece of the third package of measures to liberalise the eu's energy markets, following the recommendations adopted by the european parliament in june 2007. the rapporteur therefore agrees with the granting of wider and more independent powers to regulators, with increased transparency requirements in the market, with the improvement of the framework for cooperation at european level between national regulators and between transmission system operators, with the emphasis on further developing interconnection capacity between member states and with the proposal for ownership unbundling as the most effective, although not the only, means of encouraging investment and avoiding discrimination against new entrants.
they just never admit that the solution was to maintain a strong public sector in the energy sector.
- this is another element of this energy package.
the creation of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is part of a global strategy, defined by the european commission and the council, to liberalize and regulate the energy sector, which they have designated as the energy package.
the imposition of standards, codes, market rules or even decisions at higher levels, serving the interests of economic groups, is a recurring argument, since the agency is a supranational institution with powers in a strategic area - such as energy - that affects horizontally all sectors of society.
i would like to congratulate the commissioner on his statements in favour of the importance of nuclear energy and its absolute transparency.
the numbers don't lie, oil and gas prices will continue to rise, the pressure on global energy consumption will continue to rise, our own energy needs will rise, and we cannot fail to simultaneously meet our responsibilities and the imperative to combat co2 emissions.
we cannot waste any relevant source of energy production in the energy basket that is clean and safe.
yes, we need energy efficiency, but it's not enough.
on the one hand, the sustainability of resources and on the other, the survival of fishermen.
the choice of an integrated approach to these problems will also allow a number of common objectives in the field of safety and the environment to be taken into account, particularly as regards infrastructure or the behaviour of motorists, as many of our colleagues have already pointed out.
we would therefore like to ask the commissioner whether he is in a position to ensure that this objective is maintained by the planned date of 2012. once again, everyone must feel involved in the fight against road deaths in europe, in the search for effective and sustainable solutions for the application of new technologies to the road transport sector.
we all depend on transport in our daily lives, and the intensity of transport and mobility is causing increasing social and environmental problems.
a major overhaul of the common agricultural policy is needed to support small and medium-sized farmers and family farming by stimulating agricultural production, biodiversity and land use.
the european commission now intends to put an end to the problems it has created with its strategy by presenting the european charter of the rights of energy consumers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
externally, we cannot ignore the use of energy as a weapon in external relations, in particular by promoting the disintegration of the eu in this area, the equivocal role it has played in the iranian issue, the unwillingness to force china to commit itself to human rights, among others.
with the current review of the cap, the problems created by the 2003 reform, in particular the dissociation of direct payments, need to be corrected, and i stress the importance of ensuring a supplementary payment for producers, with particular attention to indigenous breeds of sheep and goats, which should be reinforced in mountain areas and other specific areas, in order to preserve biological diversity in agriculture, to keep these animals in sensitive areas and to occupy the territory in a natural way, which is an important contribution to the protection of the environment and the prevention of forest fires in the countries of southern europe.
− the report is intended to follow up the 2003 protocol on strategic environmental assessment to the 1991 unece espoo convention on environmental impact assessment in a cross-border context (eia protocol).
the commission signed the epa protocol on behalf of the european community on 21 may 2003 at the fifth ministerial conference on the environment for europe, held in kiev, ukraine in may 2003. the objective of the epa protocol is to provide a high level of protection of the environment, including health, and to ensure the integration of environmental and health concerns into measures and instruments to promote such sustainable development.
in this context, the european community intends to implement article 13 of the protocol on strategic environmental assessment in the espoo convention through the impact assessment processes set out in the impact assessment communications, which address in a balanced way the economic, social and environmental components of sustainable development.
similarly, environmental protection should be one of the several factors to be taken into account when approving the use of an additive.
as already approved at first reading, the consequences of misleading the consumer must be clarified and environmental protection included among the factors to be taken into account when approving the use of an additive.
the amendments now adopted at second reading are essentially aimed at improving these aspects to be taken into account in the final text, with a view to strengthening consumer and environmental protection and clarifying the conditions for the approval of additives.
- i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading of the peter liese report on the inclusion of aviation in the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme, because i consider it essential and urgent to limit the global temperature increase to +2°c.
the aviation sector is booming - carbon dioxide emissions from aviation have increased by 87% since 1990 and are expected to double by 2020 - and measures are needed to send a clear signal internationally of the eu's commitment to combating climate change, with a view to achieving an international agreement before the copenhagen conference in 2009. the compromise also includes very positive aspects, such as the derogation scheme for the outermost regions, the use of proceeds from the auctioning of emission allowances to combat climate change and measures to combat deforestation.
we know that pollution must be reduced, but we must take account of the difficulties of the countries with the weakest economies.
to achieve this more quickly, they insist on the separation of ownership from the grids, without concern for energy security itself.
of course, the profits of the economic groups in the electricity sector have increased, but so-called energy poverty has increased, meaning that more people and households have difficulty accessing energy.
question no 5 by brian crowley (h-0432/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: dissolution of the eu 10% target for biofuels a report currently under discussion in parliament (pe 405.949) calls on the eu to dilute or abandon the eu target of 10% of fuels produced from renewable sources altogether, because of its consequences for wildlife, people and global food supplies.
question no 11 by avril doyle (h-0445/08) subject: council priorities for the climate package what are the ambitions of the french presidency with regard to the climate and energy package?
i and all our colleagues believe that the consistency of the third energy package depends on effective regulation, not merely apparent regulation, of the trade in natural gas.
finally, i welcome the abstract and inherent desire in this document to give substance to the wish of our fellow europeans to see a more transparent and non-monopolized energy market.
the third energy package needs the approval of this report; so do our fellow europeans.
- this measure clearly demonstrates the real desire, shared by all, to achieve the goal of liberalising the energy market.
hence the concern to create the necessary conditions for the encouragement of transnational investment in the network at the infrastructure level; hence the concern to require equal treatment for third countries wishing to invest in the european energy market; and finally, hence also the concern to promote greater coordination in the action of national regulators in the energy sector.
this will result in the opening up of the market to competition and, consequently, in the benefit of the consumer, who will benefit from the new rules in a freer, healthier and more transparent energy market.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
- the fisheries sector has been one of the sectors of the economy most affected by the current energy crisis.
the proposal for a council regulation is therefore justified as a matter of urgency, since it aims to ensure that the eu fleet is adapted to the current economic situation dictated by the energy crisis.
- we are concerned about the growing and unacceptable climate of racism and xenophobia in europe, particularly when it is promoted by neoliberal policies which do not respond to the needs and problems - rather they aggravate them - which increase insecurity and degrade the living conditions of workers and the population.
i also strongly support the rapporteur's suggestion that the european fisheries fund should be used to finance long-term measures under the ifcs, since these are actions which contribute to the sustainable development of fishing regions, in a cross-cutting perspective of all the maritime activities carried out in them.
this system aims to address the protection of human health and the environment, without affecting the movement of substances and mixtures, by establishing criteria for classification and information, including labelling requirements and safety data sheets.
this applies to safeguarding the transport of dangerous goods and to preventing the health and safety of consumers, workers and the environment.
- this resolution follows an important debate on the cloning of animals for food supply and its possible implications for the genetic diversity of livestock, food security, animal health and welfare and the environment.
the way forward is simple: a strong european political centre, a european parliament with decision-making power, the shared responsibility of the member states' diplomats in defending human rights, the european commission steering this task, european commission delegations in third countries, more political and less bureaucratic, pressure on the world trade organisation to investigate the democratic dignity of its members, the promotion of forms of organisation identical to the union, intensive dialogue with the african union and the union of latin american states and other regional formations, pressure on the reform of the united nations with a central role for the european union, the creation of an internal strategy against dependence, centred on a single energy policy and a consistent defence policy.
part one
question no 36 by mrs bilyana ilieva raeva (h-0548/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: road safety the number of deaths and injuries in road accidents is an important issue in humanitarian, health, ecological, financial, social and demographic terms.
in addition, the costs of this tragedy have multiple negative implications for quality of life, sustainable development and global warming.
in this context, are the development of maritime links and transport and land links as well as cooperation in the energy sector, while promoting sustainable development, the main focus of eu initiatives?
so i hope that we will not follow and not reinforce, if i can respectfully suggest, this extraordinary equation that you can put the needs of poorest people first by denying to developing countries the opportunities to supply not only water and energy and telecoms more efficiently and more cheaply for consumers, but also supply health care and education using investment, technology, management skills and techniques from a variety of international sources on a competitive basis.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
as shadow rapporteur for the socialist group, i have defended and continue to defend the following points raised in the final report: the need to use existing opportunities for european funding or state aid for the development and acquisition of advanced and environmentally responsible equipment and for better integration of the european port network; the need for regional and local authorities to take advantage of the possibilities offered by their ports for the development of their regions by creating better intermodality of transport and competitiveness between ports; the need to strengthen the current social conditions in the maritime sector, in particular through better training, lifelong learning and better safety conditions at work; the need to strengthen the european union's position as a global maritime force, in particular through the strengthening of regulatory frameworks in the field of maritime safety and port financial rules, to support public or private investors from various origins; the need to strengthen the current ultra-peripheral operating powers of ports for the development of their regions by creating better intermodality of transport and competitiveness between ports; the need to recognise the need to adapt the current regulatory framework to the changing environmental and economic conditions of the european union, while recognising the need to ensure that the impact of public aid is not negligible, in particular cases, in order to ensure the rapid adaptation of the european union's specific environmental and technological requirements, while recognising the need to ensure the rapidly changing economic and equitable impact of the union's port system; the need to ensure that the rapidly changing environmental and technological framework does not neglect the need to reduce the impact of the specific effects of the union's specific, or the specific, or the most competitive, greenhouse gases, in order to reduce the environmentally sensitive, and the greenhouse gases, and the greenhouse gases, and to ensure the environmentally sensitive, and the environment
the commission's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty of amsterdam, and the council's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty of amsterdam.
the port sector is a public service of strategic importance for the economic and social development, the environment, defence and sovereignty of each member state and should not be liberalised at the level of the european union.
the link between bad environment and health risks is now evident.
there are more pathologies associated with environmental factors and climate change, such as respiratory, allergic and cancer diseases.
global warming is causing new pandemics.
more and more people are getting sick as a result of air pollution in big cities and inside buildings, as a result of water pollution and even groundwater pollution, as a result of contamination of agricultural land by plant protection products, as a result of the lack of treatment of waste water and urban waste.
mr president, we know that this is a very sensitive area because the protection of soil, a scarce and non-renewable resource, is vital, because agriculture and the conservation of biodiversity depend on it, because it is a platform for human activities, including cities and infrastructure, but also for nature and landscapes, and so its protection is crucial to preserve our heritage, natural resources, the quality of surface and groundwater, health, human life.
as my colleague, mrs inés ayala, has said, soil is a non-renewable resource, which is linked to natural disasters and agricultural production, which is linked to land use, land use planning and nature conservation, in other words to very delicate and very demanding aspects.
liberalisation means an attack on the achievements of the workers and the sovereignty of the peoples and environmental destruction.
- taking into account the concerns expressed in the report about the need for investment in port regions, technological modernisation and environmental protection, we consider that the report highlights that the european commission's objectives for a future port policy include the further liberalisation of this strategic public service in different member states.
- while we follow the concerns and proposals in the report, we believe that it does not reflect essential guidelines for national policies for this strategic sector - with social, economic and environmental implications - namely to base this system on a strong public sector and the necessary fight against the systematic violation and non-compliance of workers' rights in segments of this sector.
but there are very positive aspects which are important, in particular its defence of the precautionary principle, stating that it should occupy a central position in community policies in the fields of health and the environment.
it also criticised the action plan, saying that it 'contains the seeds of a semi-failure, as it is only intended to accompany existing community policies, not based on a prevention policy, with the aim of reducing diseases linked to environmental factors, nor does it propose any clear and quantified objective'.
it also stressed that the european commission should take account of the economic importance of smes by providing technical support to enable and help them to comply with binding environmental health regulations and encourage them to introduce other changes which are positive from the point of view of environmental health and have an impact on the functioning of businesses.
while it is true that it is impossible to prevent all acts, it is possible to prevent the environment that promotes, incites and encourages terrorism.
question no 4 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0621/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: increase in food prices among the priorities of the council for the french presidency is sustainable development in the agriculture and fisheries sectors.
in the present economic climate, when europe and the world in general are being affected by rising food prices, what can and does the council intend to do to ensure that urgent short-term food supply needs are met without compromising the sustainability of agricultural and fisheries development?
question no 11 by mr gay mitchell (h-0638/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: iran and the development of nuclear capacity can the council state its position on iran and the potential nuclear threat it poses since it decided to abandon the containment and surveillance measures of the 1997 additional protocol of the international atomic energy agency, which restricts the intrusive powers of inspectors and suspends blitz inspections?
mr president, this particular case is a clear case in which the concern for the liberalization of international trade must be subordinated to more important objectives, in the present case of an environmental and social nature.
the conservation of tropical forests is essential for the ecological balance of the planet and as such we can say without exaggeration that tropical forests are truly a heritage of humanity and that we all have responsibilities in the conservation of tropical forests.
in this very worrying moment, when the people of our countries in the european union and the world are facing vital challenges, it is unacceptable that the european commission does not put forward proposals that break with the policies that have led to the worsening of the social situation, the increase in unemployment and precarious and low-paid work, the financial, food and energy crisis, which mainly affects the countries with the weakest economies and the most vulnerable sections of the population, the growing militarization of international relations, with all the dangers this poses to world peace.
it is true that we are approaching the elections to the european parliament, and this is already influencing the decisions, especially those who want to whitewash their behaviour and their responsibilities in the policies that have led to the worsening of the social situation, the increase in unemployment and precarious and low-paid work, the financial, food and energy crisis that mainly affects the countries with the weakest economies and the most vulnerable sections of the population, the growing militarization of international relations, with all the dangers this poses to world peace.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on the preparation of the eu-india summit because i believe it is essential to adapt the strategic partnership with india, adopted in 2004, to the new challenges facing the eu and india, such as the food crisis, the energy crisis and climate change.
but the big changes should be structural, stopping the liberalisation of the energy sector, bearing in mind that this is a strategic sector for development, so it must be a nationalised sector, in order to ensure public policies that serve the national interests and the general population.
the competition authority is not expected to follow the minister's statements or consumer complaints, but to act within its powers of initiative and overcome the climate of mistrust in its capacity to monitor the oil sector.
water scarcity is no longer limited to the countries of southern europe, but is also felt in central and northern europe, as mentioned here, and the situation is likely to worsen as a result of climate change.
the european union must take urgent action to tackle these two problems: excessive water consumption and water waste.
according to data from the european environment agency, there is a huge potential for water saving in europe.
on the other hand, europe continues to waste at least 20% of its water due to inefficiencies.
in view of this, the amendments which i tabled and which the committee on the environment approved, on the reuse of waste water and desalination, are fully justified.
and because leaks in pipelines cause a lot of waste, i proposed that the member states use the structural funds to upgrade and renew existing infrastructure and technologies.
to make it affordable and accessible to all, everyone must play their part in reducing consumption and waste.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
promoting economic growth as the first objective for a prosperous, equitable and environmentally sustainable future for europe requires income support to avoid social exclusion, linking to inclusive labour markets, better access to quality services and the active participation of all citizens.
and, based on this premise, he points to examples: - '...to accelerate the future integration of ukraine's transport infrastructure, in particular as regards ports and waterways, into the european transport network ...'; - 'the full inclusion of ukraine in the 'single european sky', which may entail partial liberalisation of aviation-related activities, including airports ...'; - '...insists that a properly functioning energy market and an efficient transit policy for oil and gas are necessary preconditions for ukraine's full integration into the eu energy system...'; - 'the conclusion of the zcl makes it possible not only to eliminate restrictions on capital movements but also to remove restrictions on financial services ...'; more words for what...
in writing.
or when it calls on the commission to 'put arctic energy and security policy at the top of its priority list' and to 'take a proactive role in the arctic, at least, and above all, by taking observer status in the arctic council'.
i therefore agree with mr peterle when he draws attention to the aspects linked to the new challenges, namely population ageing, climate change, globalisation and mobility - and i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of europe.
fisheries is a strategic sector for these regions, both in terms of supplying fish to their populations and in terms of employment and economic sustainability for their fishing communities.
the specific characteristics of fishing activities in these regions justify that these aids can be granted beyond 2009 without any damage to the marine environment.
we are also taking the lead in regional fisheries organisations in order to propose sustainable fishing in the oceans wherever we have a voice, and that is in virtually all regional fisheries organisations.
we intend to persevere with this effort so that in this way we can guarantee sustainable fishing, not only in our waters but in international waters, which are so crucial for our outermost regions.
− regulation (ec) no 639/2004 provides for derogations from the entry/exit regime provided for in article 13 of regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- climate change on the planet is due, in addition to its natural development, to a policy of intensified exploitation of natural resources by the industrialized countries, which has accentuated it to a level that confronts humanity with serious problems.
responsible action to deal with the consequences of the brutal waste of natural resources requires a break with the capitalist policies that are at its origin.
the text adopted by the ep, which contains contradictions and other aspects, completely ignores these central issues, advocating instead a 'security policy to prevent or respond to security risks or conflicts linked to climate', securing and militarising international relations by using 'climate change'.
the report also advocates the creation of so-called ecological taxes (as opposed to a tax system based on income), which open the way to the privatisation of public services and private exploitation of such basic resources as water.
- climate change is a topic worth discussing when it is in the territory of responses.
in contrast to a fatalistic discourse which identifies the growth of the world population, the increase in consumption and, inevitably, the improvement of the living conditions of millions of human beings with a potential environmental tragedy, we must bet on the modern scientific capacity and the enormous progress of which we are the beneficiaries to find adequate answers that avoid the risk of containing unwanted effects (as so often happens in hasty decisions made out of the will to act right away but without knowing precisely the reality to which they respond).
thinking about these countries and their populations, with a view to mitigating the negative impact of climate change and adapting to it, must be a central focus of our policy.
- regulation (ec) no 639/2004 on the management of fishing fleets registered in the outermost regions provides for derogations from the entry/exit regime provided for in article 13 of regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
it is well known that the european union has a number of instruments at its disposal to achieve the three-twenties objective it has set itself: one of the most frequent ways is to require european industries to comply with environmental and emission control criteria; another alternative, the one we're discussing here today, suggests that public entities act as market drivers.
encouraging large public buyers to stimulate markets and to fuel demand for clean, energy-efficient vehicles, the production of which is perhaps more costly but environmentally friendly, is a legitimate, appropriate and justifiable way of acting in the market.
but this interest must measure both the immediate costs and the environmental benefits it brings to the daily lives of citizens.
the compromise we are discussing today means that public services are required to calculate not only the purchase price but also the fuel costs, co2 emissions and air pollution over the life cycle of the vehicles when purchasing their road transport fleets and to use these costs as a purchasing criterion.
the public authorities thus have the opportunity in the future to be at the centre of the example and the incentive for the automotive sector to develop and invest in the production of environmentally friendly vehicles with ever lower co2 and pollutant emissions.
finally, i would like to congratulate mr jørgensen and the rapporteurs whose work has enabled this document to be debated today, in the hope that it will really contribute to a change in habits with positive consequences for a sustainable future for our societies.
however, action at community level is needed to encourage investment in the manufacture of less polluting and more energy-efficient vehicles, even as the costs of such alternatives will be lower in the long term.
i agree with the aim of this directive: to promote the introduction of clean and energy-efficient vehicles on the market and thus contribute to energy efficiency in transport by reducing fuel consumption for climate protection purposes by reducing co2 emissions and improving air quality by reducing pollutant emissions.
the european parliament must set an example in adopting sustainability criteria, particularly in public procurement.
- i voted in favour of the dan jørgensen report on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles, as i believe it is necessary to encourage industry to invest in the development of vehicles with low energy consumption and low greenhouse gas emissions.
public authorities should help stimulate this market and improve the contribution of the transport sector to eu environment, climate and energy policies by taking energy and environmental impacts into account when purchasing road transport vehicles.
this will help to combat uncertainties in the market and create a more stable and transparent environment providing consumers with more and better information.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we condemn and deplore the murder of a young student leader, who died a victim of this climate of violence, which is fueled by power, and we demand the clarification of the truth and the condemnation of those responsible.
when we talk about excise duties, we should remember that they are levied on well-identified consumer goods and services: tobacco, alcohol, energy products.
i would stress the confirmation of the need for a common policy as an indispensable condition for a competitive and environmentally sustainable agriculture in europe, the contributions made by the commission to make the cap fairer and more acceptable to society, the commitment to simplification and reduction of bureaucracy, the confirmation of the option of giving farmers greater freedom of choice in defining their production options, the financial strengthening of rural development and the extension of its scope to the so-called new challenges (energy, climate, water, biodiversity), the introduction of the principle of the progressivity of modulation, the extension of the flexibility granted to member states in the management of the cap (article 68), the creation of a system of risks and crises with community co-financing, the good general orientation given to the discussion of the model for the period after 2013 and to a good response by the european union in the context of the wto negotiations, with a view to a fair and reciprocal agreement on international trade in agricultural products.
i therefore wish the difficult negotiations that await us today and tomorrow the greatest possible success and i am sure that we will be able to find a consensual solution that meets the aspirations of european farmers, that meets the aspirations of agriculture, that has its eyes on us, because we are all convinced, and this is the best conclusion of this debate, that a common agricultural policy is needed in europe if european agriculture is to be competitive and environmentally sustainable.
it will certainly provide greater clarity in terms of planning, sustainability and stability of european requirements for public health and safety statistics at work.
− the discussion on the cap health review was an excellent opportunity to start an in-depth debate on its reform, which will take place in 2013. to succeed, we must tread a prudent path, placing the emphasis on competitiveness as well as on the environmental, social, rural development and food security dimensions.
rural desertification, the dismantling of production in vast areas and the introduction of genetically modified species have led to a loss of biodiversity.
- it is true that greater attention must be paid to environmental issues and that measures must be taken to avoid the constant environmental degradation which threatens the present and future of the planet and the quality of life of the population.
it is therefore essential to have a greater sensitivity to the enforcement of standards which respect the environment and take account of the specificities of each country, including social implications.
however, not all of these aspects are adequately safeguarded in the european union's environmental legislation and its policies are not sufficiently coherent.
- i congratulate my colleagues on the envi committee on the wording of both the oral question and the resolution, because they make very clear the need for proper implementation of community environmental legislation.
they therefore call on the commission to move forward with a proposal for a directive on environmental inspections, clarifying the definitions and criteria and broadening the scope.
both documents also underline the need to strengthen the european network for the implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation (impel) and to support environmental education and information provision, with specific content determined at local, regional or national level, based on the needs and problems identified in a given area.
if the eu's policy of environmental rigour is not advanced, citizens' expectations will be frustrated and the eu's role as an effective guardian of the environment will be compromised.
in relation to all that has been said, particularly by our polish friends, on the energy-climate package, it is clear that we must take account of the specific features of the countries which, as i said, were in the most difficult energy structures in order to meet the objectives.
the french presidency is doing everything in its power to find and secure the necessary compromises while respecting these objectives, but please know that in this respect, as regards the specificity of poland, the other countries of central and eastern europe and the baltic states, we take this into consideration as well as the requests relating to energy security.
it has illustrated the whole concept of sustainability.
sustainable development means that we cannot put ourselves in debt and then ask future generations to come up with a solution.
we cannot send problems with regard to pollution, waste and environmental or climate change to future generations to solve for us.
the whole definition of sustainable development is the fact that we have to look at ways to satisfy our needs in a way that does not impact on future generations and their wish to satisfy their needs.
we have three central and linked issues to resolve in the next month – which have clearly come to the fore: the economic recovery plan, where decisive eu action can have a real impact on europe’s social and economic well-being over the coming year; the climate and energy package, which will put europe on track to lead the world in defining a credible, achievable path to a low-carbon future; and the treaty of lisbon, where we need to set out the way forward to achieving a treaty so that europeans can enjoy the benefits of a more democratic and efficient european union.
i fully trust my colleagues commissioner almunia and commissioner dimas to discuss the recovery plan – as so many of you have commented on that – and the climate/energy package in more detail.
climate change and the economic crisis require a european union that can make the right decisions quickly, efficiently and democratically.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, urgent support for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises requires a substantial change in the policy that has been pursued in order to create a favourable environment, in particular by improving the purchasing power of the population and, in particular, the wages of workers.
it is true that the code of conduct is already being taken seriously in many capitals, but we must put an end to a situation where european countries, which systematically guide their exports by the criteria of human rights, sustainable development and regional stability, find themselves at a disadvantage compared to their peers who apply these same criteria selectively.
mr president, climate change is the great problem of our time.
urgent action is needed to stop global warming.
as regards the sharing of effort, a matter on which i have been working as a shadow rapporteur for the socialist group and on which i hope that an agreement can be reached, i think that the member states must commit themselves to reducing co2 emissions internally and not only, and above all, at the expense of external credits.
the financial crisis is not the result of environmental policies, as some here have said, it is the result of bad management and, probably, there are cases of policing and not of policy.
but we insist that creating an environment favourable to micro, small and mediumsized enterprises requires first and foremost an increase in the purchasing power of the population, an increase in workers' wages and an improvement in pensions and pensions.
although primary competence in this area lies at the level of member states and their hierarchical structures, strictly local and/or national measures are not proven to be able to reduce the harmful effect of sea crows on european fisheries and fisheries resources in a sustainable manner.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals.
it is crucial to ensure the development of new segments of the economy of these coastal zones, ensuring their social and environmental sustainability and promoting the real integration of the different sectoral policies, such as the maritime sector, transport, energy, the cohesion instruments already in place, the new quality product policy that the cap review incorporates with the announcement of the health check report and the new tourism products in these coastal zones, taking into account their crucial contribution to the european economy.
finally, mr president, only by clearly articulating these instruments and by taking swift and effective action involving all the partners involved in the field can we ensure that we have a sustainable and future-oriented coastal tourism sector in the european union.
i therefore support the creation of specific instruments that can lead to a more integrated and sustainable development strategy, reducing the seasonal nature of tourism in these regions, as this is the only way to encourage economic competitiveness, respond to social needs (creation of more stable jobs and improvement of the quality of life), while paying particular attention to the preservation of natural and cultural resources and the promotion of more responsible tourism models.
cohesion, environment, maritime, social, etc.).
− issues related to the sustainable development of coastal areas are of paramount importance for eu countries which, like portugal, have regions heavily dependent on some maritime activities.
the eu should develop a policy that specifically addresses tourism-related issues by integrating them into broader frameworks, including: european maritime policy, marine environment directive, strategy related to integrated coastal zone management, trans-european transport network and natura 2000 environmental policy, among others.
i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need for an integrated approach to coastal tourism in the context of the european union's maritime cohesion, fisheries, environmental, transport, energy, social and health policies, in order to create synergies and avoid contradictory interventions.
in view of these considerations, both of which are reflected in two reports to which i was a party (rapporteur on the report on the future of sustainable tourism, shadow rapporteur on the report on the european maritime strategy), this report is welcome.
more generally, it is necessary to stimulate an economic environment that is conducive to entrepreneurship, that takes advantage of this enormous potential - of these enormous potentials - by exploiting it today and doing so in a way that makes this exploitation lasting and therefore sustainable and responsible.
the aim is to secure dominance over markets, finite energy resources and other natural resources which are crucial to the capitalist mode of production, in a context of increased international competitiveness.
- i voted in favour of the matthias groote report on the typeapproval of motor vehicles and engines, as i believe that the development of common rules limiting the emission of air pollutants from motor vehicles will make a significant contribution to the protection of the environment and also to the proper functioning of the single market in the european union.
i agree with the rapporteur's proposal, which calls for more ambitious limit values for particulate emissions (beyond those proposed by the european commission) to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, particularly with regard to climate change mitigation.
- i am in favour of harmonising the rules for the construction of heavy motor vehicles with regard to emissions of air pollutants, because i believe that this is the best way to avoid divergent requirements being applied by the member states and to ensure the protection of the environment.
the eu has shown a strong willingness to take the lead in tackling climate change.
this report is nothing more than a new lever to supplement the fight against environmental deterioration.
the new reduction of limit values for harmful emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter is the main aspect of this regulation and will certainly improve air quality in europe.
- mr president, despite the financial and economic crisis, the european union has not wavered in its commitments on climate, and the statements by the president-elect of the united states and the position taken in poznań by china, brazil, mexico, etc.
prove that european environmental pioneering is beginning to bear fruit.
it has brought to this parliament common sense solutions to the problems of carbon leakage in industry, introduced quality criteria and a 50% limit on the use of offsetting and clean development mechanisms and sought to condition the freedom of states to use auction revenues by about 50%.
in particular, we must set out in detail the criteria for classifying sectors liable to leak carbon, the consequences for the economy and for citizens of the increase in energy prices and, above all, we must use all the european diplomatic power to ensure that the environmental commitments of our main partners are serious, measurable and comparable to our own.
this was not, in fact, an easy process, but it was worth it, if there is an international agreement to the legal commitment of member states to reach 30% reduction in co2 emissions.
long-term targets have been included: 50% emission reduction by 2035 and 60-80% by 2050. the commission also noted the energy efficiency and quality of cdm projects and the intention to help third countries reduce emissions and adapt to climate change.
the energy-climate package is a dossier of the utmost importance for citizens, the environment and the economy.
with this agreement, the european union has sent a very positive signal to the other international partners, showing that it continues to lead the fight against climate change and that it expects the same effort from the other parties.
− the use of renewable energy in transport is one of the most effective instruments for the eu to reduce its dependence on oil.
we also know that controlling energy consumption in europe and the use of energy from renewable sources are important parts of the package of measures needed to combat climate change.
i think the most important thing in this report is to maintain the binding final target of 20% renewable energy by 2020, including the minimum target of 10% renewable in transport.
for portugal, the inclusion of wave energy in the renewable energy definition constitutes an opportunity to use our energy potential to achieve the objectives.
the fact that the report includes an incentive for second generation biofuels not only gives credibility to the document, but also ensures the sustainability of the use of renewables for the transport sector.
in order to achieve an energy model that supports renewable energies, i consider it essential that the document encourages mechanisms for strategic cooperation between member states.
this report is fundamental in itself and as part of an agreement (climate-energy package).
while ensuring the preservation of environmental integrity, the agreement will make it possible to achieve the 20/20/20 targets by 2020. the targets set for the member states are ambitious but achievable.
- this is a theme of the so-called 'climate-energy package'.
it deals with the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, covering the following sectors: electricity, heating and cooling and transport.
the aim is for the eu to increase the share of renewable energy in energy consumption to 20% by 2020, setting national overall targets for each member state and also setting a target of 10% renewable energy in the transport sector by that date.
according to information provided, for portugal, the target for the share of energy from renewable sources in final energy consumption in 2020 is set at 31%, taking into account the starting point (in 2005 the share in portugal was already 20,5%) and the national potential in renewable energy.
the 10% target for renewable energy in transport is, by contrast, set at the same level for all member states.
the fact is that, although we voted in favour of it in the end, we have serious doubts about its implementation, since it is misleading to assume that we know the extent of the renewable resources that can be exploited or that we have the technology to do so.
it would be preferable to set public and private investment amounts and to promote a general survey and mapping plan for the classification and quantification of renewable energy resources.
− while the concept and system of greenhouse gas emission allowances is justified by the need to prevent chemical changes in the atmosphere with potential climate impact (precautionary principle) and the scarcity of fossil fuel sources and lack of rationality in their consumption, there are aspects to be cautious about.
the issue of emission allowances and the subsequent trading of emission allowances is questionable and should be opposed because its impact on the real economy is largely uncertain, because there is still a wide margin of doubt about diversified technical solutions, and because the fate of these technical solutions is also dependent on the evolution of the financial situation in the various sectors involved (air transport, automotive, thermoelectricity production, cement plants, heavy chemicals, petrochemicals, and increasingly other energy-intensive sectors).
− the report's main thrust is to strengthen, expand and improve beyond 2012 the functioning of the ets, one of the main instruments for achieving the eu's goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i agree with this report, mainly because auctions are key to achieving an efficient allocation and decisive for the environmental effectiveness of the eu ets; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new treaty on european union.
however, it is important to bear in mind that emissions will be reduced each year.
- we agree on the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and on the establishment of a system to do so.
but we have the greatest doubts about the proposed system, which, while claiming to be based on the 'principle of solidarity between member states and the need for sustainable economic growth', then insists that it is only the countries that pay the bill, through national budgets - and not the community budget - for the unequal conditions of development in which they find themselves.
by allowing the transfer of emissions between member states, either through 'auctioning' or through 'market intermediaries', mechanisms are being put in place which will accentuate the differences in economic power between member states to the benefit of the great powers.
all these measures are aimed at pressing for an international agreement which, in the context of a serious economic crisis, will emphasize the capitalist vision of the environmental front.
− with a view to eu action on climate change in a future international agreement to replace the kyoto protocol, it is essential that the eu sends a clear signal to the world and commits to effectively reducing its greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission's proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% by 2020 compared to 2005 levels for non-ets sectors is therefore of paramount importance.
the so-called 'climate-energy package' also includes a proposal for a directive on carbon capture and storage.
this technology, although controversial, can help achieve negative emissions by complementing renewable energy.
− in mitigating climate change in the eu, ccs technology holds great promise, but should not be a reason for slackening and reducing efforts to make european electricity production cleaner.
- i voted in favour of the dorette corbey report on the control and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from road transport and inland waterway transport, as i consider that improving air quality and reducing greenhouse gas emissions are two crucial aspects of tackling climate change and minimising health risks.
i think that the adoption of this directive is very important, as it will contribute to the reduction of co2 in the transport sector, in particular by stimulating the development of clean technologies and by setting concrete requirements for carbon emissions from the production process.
− this report from the so-called 'climate-energy package' aims to improve air quality and contribute to the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fuels used in the transport sector.
the proposed amendment also provides for mandatory reductions in greenhouse gases from fuels.
- this report is very important because in the same document it is intended to improve air quality by reducing air pollution, in particular emissions of highly toxic and polluting substances, and secondly to contribute to the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fuels used in the transport sector.
i would like to endorse the agreement reached between parliament and the council and stress the fact that sustainability is guaranteed in the production and use of biofuels, which is fundamental to the viability of the directive.
the fuel quality directive will become a key instrument in the fight against climate change.
given that road transport accounts for 12% of total carbon dioxide emissions in the european union, i believe that this regulation, while not part of the 'energy-climate package', is key to the eu meeting its 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target by 2020. i congratulate the rapporteur on the decisive role he has played in the negotiations with the council and the european commission, which have resulted in a strong and balanced commitment to the benefit of the car industry, the consumer and, above all, the protection of the environment.
it is therefore an ambitious but flexible model, since it seeks to meet the objectives of reducing pollutant emissions while allowing for gradual adaptation by companies in the automotive sector.
− road transport is the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu and, above all, a sector where emissions continue to rise.
the proposal for a regulation is in line with the spirit and objectives of the eu, namely to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020. the fact that the proposal provides for a division of labour, since each manufacturer will be assigned a precise objective to be met, is, in my view, exemplary.
in order to achieve the objectives which the european union has set itself in combating climate change, this regulation will certainly make a contribution.
- i voted in favour of the so-called 'energy-climate package' which includes the doyle, hassi, turmes and davies reports, because i consider that the agreement concluded between the european parliament, the council and the european commission is a balanced agreement which reconciles the protection of the environment with the legitimate interests of industry.
it was important to reach an agreement at first reading, in time for the european union to present a credible proposal at the copenhagen conference in 2009 with a view to reaching an international agreement, and to continue to lead the fight against climate change.
− the reports that address the different issues of the 'climate package' provide a global approach.
considering that the global increase in energy consumption will continue and that the most co2-emitting energies are the most expensive, it is easy to understand that the adoption of lower co2-emitting energies is both an environmental and an economic necessity.
for this reason, it is a priority to invest in technologies that reduce energy consumption and in technological solutions that reduce emissions that will always exist.
finally, it is noted that the need to reduce energy dependence by diversifying sources and suppliers is essential and should be exploited to stimulate energy with lower co2 emissions.
in addition, a solid knowledge base is needed to develop a sustainable strategy to combat counterfeiting and piracy.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.