climate change is one of the greatest challenges of this century.
also in large urban areas, road traffic and pollution are problems that were identified by 66% of european citizens, and 70% of them expect the union to get involved in solving them.
as far as environmental modulation is concerned, it is acceptable.
i have said, and i am referring to mrs lichtenberger, that the directive allows member states to set fees or charges for noise pollution or other environmental issues.
however, to answer mr el khadraoui, it is certain that there will be the possibility of modulating the charges on an environmental basis.
the proposal for a regulation on the export and import of dangerous substances improves the way chemicals are used so that public health and the environment are more effectively protected.
the prior consent procedure, known as pic, for which certain chemicals require explicit authorisation from the importing country, also helps countries involved in trade to be better informed about dangerous chemicals that have been banned for environmental and public health reasons and that may enter the national territory of importing countries.
on the basis of the human rights to literacy and education, as well as the obligations of the member states to guarantee quality adult training, i believe, mr president, that we too have a responsibility to develop sustainable instruments to finance and support lifelong learning.
it is clear that the black sea region is of strategic importance for the european union's energy security and diversification and requires a comprehensive approach in this direction.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the region is of geostrategic importance for the energy security and diversification of the union's energy supply routes, due to its proximity to the caspian sea, the middle east and central asia.
the itre committee underlines the importance of the nabucco project for the diversification of the union's energy sources and calls on the member states, together with its partners, to ensure its implementation.
the itre committee regrets the lack of coordination of investment in energy, transport and tourism projects in the region and draws attention to the danger of pollution in the black sea.
therefore, the european union should courageously address that problem and try to find a negotiated solution concerning the way in which russia, the european union and other global players must share responsibilities for guaranteeing the sustainable regional and global stability and security.
only then will the approval of the doubling of the funds available under the european neighbourhood instrument, as well as the principles governing the structural funds, such as partnership, sustainability, efficiency, non-discrimination and decentralisation, produce the positive effects we all expect.
the south caucasus countries have some features that are indispensable for the success of european projects in key areas such as energy and transport.
the geopolitical significance of these countries is linked to their strategic positioning in relation to the energy resources of central asia.
the region is essential as a transit area and represents one of the few corridors that can allow the union to diversify its access to energy resources from the caspian region.
the united states has an energy security action plan that proposes to initiate and develop alternative routes for the transport of gas and oil.
in the current context, where the importance of the energy issue and dependence on russia have become evident, the low level of european union involvement in the area may lead to negative consequences for all member states in the future.
the european union must develop without delay a common energy security policy in which the member states renounce their individual interests and in which it is absolutely vital that the countries of the south caucasus be part of it.
the eu's black sea dimension similar to the nordic dimension must be based on equal partnerships and adequate infrastructure to develop priority projects in energy, nuclear research and safety, transport, tourism and combating climate change.
in this way, environmental protection, coastal development, maritime research, transport and tourism will be tackled in an integrated manner.
i made a presentation to the committee on women's rights on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the role of women in industry.
while appreciating the concerns of the environment committee, we are concerned about the limited relevance of the indicators used in the algorithm for calculating the allocation of pollutant emission allowances.
the national budgetary effort required to keep emissions within the allocated limits will thus be burdened by the investment budget for re-technologization, and in economically deprived areas it will become an obstacle to alignment with european environmental standards.
the european commission's efforts to propose to member states and citizens a viable programme for achieving energy and environmental objectives have our full support.
the measure to revise the rules for approving state aid for environmental projects is necessary.
mining is one such industry, which greatly needs carbon capture and storage technologies.
as regards the commission's proposal to launch 12 coal and natural gas power plant projects using carbon capture and storage technology, i would like to reaffirm romania's capacity to host such a plant.
the eu countries are facing the challenges of climate change, increasing dependence on energy imports and high energy prices.
the european union's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020, in particular through measures in the energy sector, is therefore an important step in the fight against global warming.
accelerating the shift to low-carbon energy by increasing the market share of biofuels and renewable energy sources will encourage innovation and increase industrial competitiveness.
member states with developing economies, in particular bulgaria and romania, will be allowed an increase of 20% in emissions from 2005 levels in industries outside the ets, calculated on the basis of gross domestic product.
we welcome the initiative of the president of the commission to come to the european parliament to present proposals on energy and climate change.
i believe that the fight against climate change can only be won if we succeed in ensuring global solidarity.
the european union should include climate change in all its agreements, whether bilateral or multilateral.
it is also important that adaptation to climate change takes account of and enables the sustainable economic development of the union.
sustainable development of transport can contribute to reducing climate change.
member states should choose an energy mix that is as low-polluting as possible.
i ask the commission to review the financial perspective for 2007-13 and the 2008 budget, community programmes and policies, and key legislation to take account of adaptation to climate change.
the commission should recognise the importance of national, local and regional authorities in the development and implementation of climate change adaptation measures and the need to inform them with authority and provide them with the necessary support.
this succession in time will benefit the romanian consumer, leading to better quality services and an affordable price for them in view of the liberalisation of the market after 1 january 2013.
climate change is beginning to be felt by all of us, no matter what continent, no matter what country.
the bali conference is crucial for a post-kyoto agreement to combat climate change.
the european union must remain a leader in action to both mitigate and adapt to climate change.
the existing community legislation and the new legislative package recently presented by the commission to promote renewable energy are concrete examples of action.
i am glad we are having this discussion on the occasion of the european sustainable energy week.
transport is responsible for 30% of global energy consumption and urban transport for generating 70% of pollutant emissions.
the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading scheme is an important step.
we call on the commission and the council of the european union to include climate change among the priorities, both at community level and in the union's external relations.
but what emerges from the data available for 2005 is that the united states alone has increased its greenhouse gas emissions by 16.4%, while the european union is on track to meet the kyoto target, and already in 2005 was altogether 7.9% below the 1990 level.
there is therefore a big difference between what the european union is achieving and what the united states is not achieving, which, in particular, under the kyoto protocol, which it signed but did not ratify, had to reduce its emissions by 7%.
it is already below the level of 1990. i would also like to say that the biggest problem in ireland is the huge increase in carbon dioxide emissions from transport.
in the last few years, we've had a 160% increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
new zealand, for example, has developed special foods that go a long way in reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
ladies and gentlemen, the bali action plan, which was agreed last december, is an important step forward in the discussions on the future international regime on climate change.
the key achievement was that we have now started formal negotiations and that there are clear references to the required level of ambition to tackle climate change, with regard to the climate agreement covering the period after 2012. the united nations convention on climate change has approved the creation of a new ad hoc group to negotiate long-term cooperation action with the ad hoc working group already operating under the kyoto protocol.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
we need to find ways to accelerate and make even more environmentally friendly flows of finance and investment - which will benefit clean technology and efforts to adapt to the inevitable impacts of climate change - with flows coming from the public sector and to a large extent from the private sector.
as your resolution rightly points out, we need to intensify our efforts, among other things, to integrate climate considerations into our development policy.
the question of preventing deforestation is undoubtedly very important and, as you rightly said, with relatively small investments we can have benefits both in combating climate change and in preventing biodiversity loss.
the commission is determined to help the european union maintain its leadership in these new discussions on the future climate regime and i count heavily on your support in this regard.
we are only at the beginning of the negotiations on post-2012 climate change policies.
the european union's leadership on climate change will be crucial to ensure that this dialogue continues and produces positive results.
the implementation of climate policies in the european union and the swift adoption of the climate and energy package will continue to be of crucial importance if we are to maintain our leadership and bring international efforts to tackle climate change to a successful conclusion.
i recently received a paper on climate change that we all feel and feel.
the document, titled "don't fight, adapt - we should give up futile attempts to combat climate change", was sent as an open letter to the un secretary-general.
as the title of the open letter suggests, 100 scientists are asking us to embrace climate change, not with resignation, but with enthusiasm, arguing that co2 is indispensable to photosynthesis.
without being an expert in chemistry or biology, i cannot help but notice that in recent years, climate change has been dramatic.
the bali conference culminated in the adoption of a roadmap to a safer future climate, a new negotiation process to be completed in 2009 and to relaunch global warming negotiations after 2012, when the first phase of the kyoto protocol expires.
the outcome of the conference was the adoption of important decisions that are the basic elements of this 'roadmap', such as the launch of the adaptation fund, the transfer of green technology from rich countries to poor countries, and measures to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries.
combating deforestation is one of the key priorities of the european union's environmental policy, and coordinating member states' efforts will help in the fight against global warming.
fortunately, the bali action plan also contains strategies for reducing environmental disasters and means to address climate change-related loss and damage in developing countries.
the european union played an important role in the successful conclusion of this conference, ensuring that the latest scientific recommendations from the intergovernmental panel on climate change were taken into account.
mr president, as the european parliament's rapporteur on regional cooperation in the black sea, i wish to express my concern about bulgaria's agreement of 18 january 2008 to participate in and support the russian south stream energy project.
this project presents a double challenge to the energy security of the european union.
first, the support of the project by a member state of the european union is contrary to the primary objective of diversifying the european union's energy sources.
the completion of the south stream project would only increase the european union's energy dependency on the same source.
second, by its very existence, the south stream project undermines the realisation of the nabucco project, a project considered to be of strategic importance for the success of the european energy security policy.
today, when we talk about reducing climate change, about the sustainability of energy sources, about cleaner vehicles, about increasing the energy efficiency of different industries, about the shift to digital technology, investing in research must be one of our priorities.
i believe that the implementation of these european funds needs to be monitored, but above all the sustainability of these projects that have received funding.
that is why i believe that additional funds are needed for intercultural education, for the organisation of cultural and artistic activities, sports, second chance education, health education, which will lead to the integration of roma into society in all the countries of the european union, but, i repeat, these programmes must be monitored, and above all their sustainability.
i would like to welcome the development of this report and the comprehensive approach it proposes for the field of energy efficiency in the european union, both from a thematic and geographical point of view.
as rapporteur for regional cooperation in the black sea, i would like to underline the importance of ensuring energy efficiency in this region in order to achieve the objective of energy security and reducing dependence on energy supply sources.
this allows us to reiterate to the european institutions the importance of two major objectives: the increasing substitution of energy imports in the eu with other sources and efficient methods of ensuring european energy security, and the need to promote energy reform in the black sea region and in the countries neighbouring the eu in order to create a transparent and sustainable energy sector.
i voted for this resolution because it draws the attention of the member states and the european institutions to the need to implement measures to create a suitable social and political environment for the social inclusion of roma.
the reform treaty reaffirms the principle of equality of its citizens, gives legal force to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, introduces the review of subsidiarity by national parliaments, recognises the principle of universal access to services of general economic interest, underlines the importance of energy security and reinforces the spirit of solidarity between member states in this field, and imposes special measures to combat climate change.
it is vital that we maintain our energy and engagement in 2008 and beyond.
(applause)
reporting for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
we believe that market access will be facilitated by promoting the values and principles of the european union to third countries by promoting open markets, by bringing social and environmental standards closer together and by ensuring the protection of intellectual property rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
a common reflection is essential to ensure a prosperous and sustainable future for future generations of europeans.
it is essential that we improve the quality of life in europe in the context of globalisation, demographic change and environmental challenges.
by creating new, high-skilled and well-paid jobs and sustainable economic growth, the lisbon strategy is also a tool for building the new social europe.
the fundamental objectives of the lisbon strategy cannot be achieved without developing competitiveness, taking into account all the global challenges of the moment (globalisation, climate change, fluctuations in financial markets, the opening up of international markets).
the development of sustainable communities and coherence of sectoral and cross-sectoral policies cannot be achieved without a good exploitation of local and regional potential, by strengthening the competences of local and regional authorities, in full respect of diversity and by strengthening interregional and cross-border links and exchanges.
the growth potential of the romanian economy, energy resources, natural resources in general, attractiveness and territorial accessibility are an asset for the interdependence of european economies and we count on the solidarity of the old member states so that, beyond short-term and temporary disagreements, romanian resources are valued at their true potential, for the benefit of the entire union.
this is most explicitly seen in the energy and transport sectors, with central asia representing an important source of energy for the european union.
first, the development of transport routes and energy infrastructure connecting central asian sources to the black sea area and, finally, the european union is necessary as an important element in ensuring energy security and diversification in the european union.
secondly, a sound energy policy also requires the creation of a transparent and competitive energy market.
for these reasons, in parallel with energy policy, it is very important to promote reform in all five republics, and human rights and good governance, education and continuing training must be essential elements of this.
paragraph 37 of the resolution underlines the importance of transport policy in combating climate change and calls for the trans-european networks to be subject to an appropriate strategic assessment of their environmental impact.
the reality is that, after its statement of self-determination, kosovo is neither independent nor able, for long, to be an independent, sustainable state.
mr president, commissioner, the reports we are debating, for which i congratulate both rapporteurs, raise a number of extremely important issues, in my view: the problem of urban and rural partnerships for the balanced and sustainable development of the whole territory, the problem of the chaotic expansion of urban settlements that generates the fragmentation of the landscape, but also the continuous loss of land.
all of this, together with climate change and depopulation of rural areas, are challenges that we at european level and the local administrations that manage these policies must take into account.
the implementation of an integrated strategy for sustainable transport development must be a top priority for both the commission and the member states.
a comprehensive assessment of the external costs and, in particular, the negative environmental impact of transport is required.
romania also supports and promotes actions aimed at improving energy efficiency to help reduce the negative impact of transport on the environment and also encourages investments in alternative energy sources.
i therefore call on the european commission to re-evaluate the multiannual financial frameworks for transport funding and for research in the field with a view to achieving more economically and energy-efficient products and services.
i also recommend that member states encourage public-private partnerships and, by implication, private investment in these areas and make full use of the funds available to create a sustainable transport environment, to improve road safety and the health of the environment in which we live.
european sustainable transport policy, taking into account european energy and environmental policies, concerns and directly affects all of the approximately 490 million european citizens.
i have asked the commission and the member states to intervene in the modernisation of port infrastructure, both for the european union's maritime ports and those on inland waterways, to enable the rapid transfer of goods and passengers from one transport system to another, thus facilitating the reduction of energy consumption in transport.
in 2007, the european union made a firm and unilateral commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% compared with 1990 levels.
the development of the european rail transport system will also contribute to complying with european energy and climate change policies.
as vice-president of envi, i would like to make a few remarks on the impact of climate change on agriculture.
in recent years, intensive farming has made farmers a major contributor to global warming, and today they are fighting its devastating effects.
statistics estimate that agriculture is responsible for 17 to 32 percent of greenhouse gas emissions from human activities.
global warming is irreversible, and the frequent occurrence of droughts or floods in the future should not surprise us.
i therefore support the idea put forward in the report of creating a safety net at european level to support eu farmers in the event of an ecological, climatic or epidemiological disaster.
these are figures that demonstrate the importance of agriculture and the rural environment for romania and for our economy.
at the current level of oil, biogas is an energy resource that needs to be taken into account, especially in the context of the european union's increasing dependence on hydrocarbon imports.
we all know it, the target of 20% renewable energy in total european energy consumption by 2020 is well known.
or, in these circumstances, it is obvious that biogas will also have to be stimulated, especially through financial instruments, as an energy resource.
biogas and other biofuels, together with solar and wind energy, can significantly reduce dependence on conventional energy sources.
energy and climate change are priorities for the european union.
energy statistics are therefore also of great importance, as they enable the union to assess the sector and take the necessary measures.
on 26 february 2008, eurostat published a set of statistical indicators for energy, transport and the environment.
for energy, we find indicators related to energy dependency, energy intensity, energy sources, final energy consumption, renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy prices.
and in terms of climate change, we have greenhouse gas emissions.
this is in line with the solidarity clause for energy crisis situations in the lisbon treaty.
the proposal for a regulation aims to reduce the impact of the use of plant protection products on the environment and human health by creating a mechanism for calculating risk indicators and monitoring the targets set in the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides.
at the same time, reducing the use of pesticides will bring benefits to society, such as improved food quality, reduced contamination of drinking water, environmental protection and sustainable conservation of natural resources.
one should also add the worrying effects of climate change, the need to secure energy security and a rise in overall uncertainty.
fourth, energy policy needs more focus and the nabucco project is a step in the right direction.
the european council must address the issue of energy security and the successful implementation of the nabucco project, taking into account the alarming situation in some neighbouring countries following the recent elections in the area.
the european union must also encourage the existence of a stable iraq with institutions capable of ensuring national sovereignty, state unity, territorial integrity, sustainable economic development and the prosperity of the iraqi people.
we know that the energy treaty was signed in july 2006 to attract investment in energy, and we know that in 2007 a list of priority projects for energy infrastructure in the region was adopted and a memorandum on the social dimension was even signed.
the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund is an innovative solution to maximize the efficiency of public funds used in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources by mobilising private investment.
the initial costs for renewable energy projects are 37 times higher than for conventional energy sources, and we therefore regret that the current estimated value of the fund is only eur 100 million.
in 2005, the union was 50% dependent on energy imports, with only denmark being a net exporter of energy.
between 1995 and 2005 the use of renewable energy sources in the union increased by 40%.
in 2005, clean energy sources accounted for 42% of european primary energy production.
efficient use of this fund can provide energy for between 1 and 3 million citizens, while reducing co2 emissions by 1 to 2 million tonnes per year.
without gender equality for development, we will never achieve either the millennium development goals or sustainable economic growth.
the investing in human resources programme has €57 million for gender-specific actions between 2007 and 2013, an average annual amount almost three times what we did until 2006. of course, gender equality is also integrated into the other thematic programmes, whether in education, health, agriculture, the environment or culture.
i want to tell you that it is very clear that sustainable development cannot be achieved without rethinking the role of women in the economy, society, politics, the environment and the family.
− the resolution calls for the creation of an innovative financial instrument to support the implementation of projects financed by the fund to transition to a low-carbon economy and adapt to the effects of climate change.
i voted for this resolution because i believe that these two lines of action, namely reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to the effects of climate change, must be pursued in parallel, through coherent and convergent policies that have a positive impact on the development of the labour market/job creation and gdp growth.
there are energy resources.
the european union has not been involved enough and if we want to find solutions to the problems in the south caucasus, it is imperative that the union be actively involved in the development of the energy routes in the black sea.
in this respect, the recent decision of the croatian parliament to exempt the eu states from the application of the ecological and fisheries protection zone (zerp) following commissioner rehn’s visit, is both a testimony to that determination and is an important step in the right direction.
against the background of climate change and in a context where primary natural resources, especially energy, are becoming increasingly scarce and expensive, the common agricultural policy can be an effective instrument in achieving the objectives of the european union.
by june 2008, the commission shall, after examining all options, including environmental, noise, congestion and health costs, present a general applicable, transparent and comprehensive model for the assessment of all external costs, which shall define and serve as a basis for the subsequent calculation of infrastructure charges.
in order to sustain the leading position of european exporters, we have to make sure that they compete in a fair global trade environment.
the commission communication on the mid-term review of the sixth community environment action programme (eap) confirms that climate change, biodiversity loss, health and resource use are the most pressing environmental challenges and that it is therefore essential that this programme becomes an important instrument in the eu's sustainable development strategy.
taking into account the measures implemented so far under this programme, it is unlikely that the priority environmental objectives will be achieved by 2012. for example, the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 will not be met, and the proposed strategies for protecting the marine and soil environment will not deliver concrete results by 2012. at the same time, measures taken to improve air quality, such as those set out in the thematic strategy on air pollution and the targets for reducing ambient noise, are not sufficient to achieve the map targets.
this review draws attention to these issues and calls on the commission to pursue ambitious environmental performance.
i would like to conclude by inviting the commission, together with all the states involved in this programme, to encourage and promote this programme, which is closely linked to the european priority themes of climate change, energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy sources and, not least, the fight against cancer.
steel is still a product used by many industrial sectors, but research is needed in this sector to identify less polluting and more energy-efficient solutions.
the commission proposal refers to the green energy charter and its stated objective of increasing the use of coal as a major energy source, subject to the use of clean, carbon dioxide reducing and storage technologies.
finally, i ask myself, rhetorically, whether europe will end up buying steel and coal from outside the community, if it does not want to align itself with the european union's environmental protection programme.
the establishment of the climate change commission was driven by the direct impact that climate change has on the planet, threatening the existence of humanity as a whole.
the mandate of the climate change commission is very clear: it must analyse the current situation, take stock of the prospects for combating climate change and make concrete proposals for eu policy in this area at all levels of decision-making.
we need to be the global climate change advocates.
only concrete measures, which take account only of the arguments relating to the stability of citizens' lives, can mitigate the effects of climate change, and these measures must be implemented in the shortest possible time.
climate change is becoming more and more evident and humanity needs to change its behaviour, paying more attention to environmental protection.
romania has not been spared the effects of climate change.
europe must act decisively today to reduce the effects of climate change.
europe must take action to improve water management, flood protection, wastewater treatment, coastal protection, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions reduction, cleaner agriculture, cleaner transport and forestry.
reducing the speed limit will also help to combat the greenhouse effect.
the introduction of aviation into the emissions trading scheme is a step forward.
unfortunately, the current union budget does not sufficiently and coherently integrate the actions needed to mitigate climate change.
the climate change budget is modest.
we could continue to turn a blind eye to the slaughter of forests, assuming that we europeans have efficient systems for protecting biodiversity and consumers.
romania, like other countries in the european area, has timid actions in the field of promoting volunteering, although european policies on waste recycling, reducing carbon emissions, environmental protection, can be applied and motivated by involving politicians, together with young people, in volunteering actions.
to prevent this 'transplant tourism', the environment committee report calls for organ donation to be done altruistically and voluntarily, without it becoming a source of profit for the donors.
we have to make it very clear that our expectation is that china's involvement in africa is not just about the nations that are of interest from the point of view of energy policy.
we should also encourage china to provide unconditional assistance to african partners, and that the economic conditions attached to international subsidies or loans do not undermine the objective of sustainable development.
to force the eu member countries to choose the less attractive option for the sake of a false solidarity, which is not respected by many eu member countries with regard to other, much important matters – like energy for instance – is at least morally wrong, all the more so since half of european citizens are already exempted from visa requirements through earlier bilateral negotations with the us.
the meeting of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in bonn will also discuss the issue of forest biodiversity.
forest biodiversity is threatened by illegal logging that is taking place around the globe.
they result in substantial and largely irreversible reductions in biodiversity.
in addition, deforestation is the third largest contributor to global warming.
pech expressed its position on the significant climate impact of deforestation, the long-term economic benefits and the importance of keeping forests intact in its november 2007 resolution on trade and climate change.
just look at the effects of global warming and the financial crisis of huge economic imbalances.
therefore the reform of the cap, the eu development aid policy and the energy policies have to be examined by considering the dramatic changes in the international context.
i therefore believe that by concluding the free trade agreement, both parties would formally commit themselves to economic cooperation with substantial mutual benefits: the development of cooperation in the energy sector, the economic and technological development of the area and, by implication, a greater impact on environmental protection, the creation of a common market and the increase in the level of european investment are part of this.
the conclusion of the agreement in 2008 would be a key prerequisite for the intensification of economic relations between the two regions, and the need to ensure the energy security of the european union reflects the high level of importance and urgency of this issue.
given the focus of current trade on energy, it is essential that the future agreement addresses cooperation in this area and its strengthening in a clear and comprehensive manner.
this would multiply and facilitate the implementation of joint energy projects, including with eu member states in the black sea region, which would benefit from new opportunities for development and cooperation.
mr president, i would like to stress that tackling climate change requires more extensive actions than those focusing on transport and energy.
avoiding deforestation should also be at the core of the eu climate change mitigation strategy, as a highly cost-effective way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions fairly quickly.
this regulatory approach should be complemented by a set of market-based instruments specifically designed for forestry, such as charges for premature harvesting of forests or incentives for sustainable forest management.
the market instruments used for environmental and other related policy purposes must be known to them.
the commission has taken initiatives such as the exchange of emission certificates, the fuel quality directive, the euro standards for vehicles, the directive on the procurement of clean and energy-efficient road vehicles, and the euro 6 standard for vehicles.
in october, the commission will come up with a proposal for a revision of the eurovignette directive, based on the internalisation of external costs, including those related to the environment.
as rapporteur for the tran committee opinion on the proposal for a directive on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, i think it is important to calculate the cost of a vehicle over its entire life cycle, taking into account not only the initial purchase price but also the price of the fuel used, carbon dioxide emissions, etc.
the advantage of emu is that it has ensured low inflation and interest rates for the benefit of consumers and businesses and has encouraged the soundness and sustainability of public finances, and the introduction of the single currency has led to the disappearance of the costs of foreign exchange, facilitated trade and price equivalence in the countries that now constitute the euro area.
as the establishment of the transatlantic economic council reflects the need to harmonise the positions of both sides in managing the crises we face globally, especially in relation to the food and energy crisis, but also in other areas.
today we are discussing at european level the reform of the common agricultural policy, the future common energy policy, the extension of the trans-european network in the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors, climate change and the reform of the union's budget.
the new treaty underlines the importance of a highly competitive social market economy for europe's sustainable development.
the continuing and rapid depletion of deep-sea fish stocks and insufficient measures to protect deep-sea biodiversity require urgent action to ensure the conservation and sustainable use of fish species.
although the 2002 and 2004 recommendations of the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) point out that most species are below safe biological limits, the european union has reduced its fishing effort too little to ensure sustainable fishing.
on the one hand, law enforcement and clubs must work together to ensure a climate of comfort and safety at sporting events, and on the other hand, the judicial system must tighten the penalties for acts of violence related to sporting events.
i believe it is essential to introduce free access to sporting events for young people under 14, the establishment of european championships at school and university level, and a 'european day without e-waste in food'.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment, transport, energy, transport, energy, transport and the environment.
the existence of sports facilities within hotel complexes or the creation of tourist routes for cyclists can have a beneficial impact on both the health of the population and the environment.
the commission’s intention in the years to come is to use all the available instruments to maintain a sustainable supply of raw materials for our industries.
private industry has established the industry grouping, and its members represent a major share of europe’s fuel cell and hydrogen companies, such as car manufacturers, energy providers, developers of fuel cells and developers of their applications.
in total, it has been estimated that the creation of this jti will speed up, by up to five years, the delivery of robust hydrogen supply and fuel cell technologies, developed to the point of commercial take-off within the time-frame 2010-2020. i also want to mention its relevance to our efforts in the area of energy technology acceleration, as this jti is a very interesting model for some of the industrial initiatives that we have proposed be set up under the strategic energy technology plan.
new funding may be granted after 2013, but only for projects for which a financing agreement has been signed by 31 december 2013. i would like to stress that this joint undertaking is particularly useful because it implements and is part of the framework programme research especially in the fields of energy and transport, including aeronautics.
an integrated maritime policy of the union must ensure synergy between sectors of particular economic importance such as: shipbuilding, maritime and inland waterway transport, port activities, fishing, energy, tourism, environmental protection and the protection of maritime heritage.
the main problem of the seven outermost regions is that, although they represent 1% of the population of the european union, they face a delicate economic and social situation, aggravated by their insular position and remoteness from the mainland, their difficult surface, topography and climate, and their economic dependence on a small number of products.
by giving priority to the measures listed by the commission and supported by the rapporteur, such as improving competitiveness, reducing accessibility difficulties and integrating the outermost regions into the regional geographical environment, we can help to improve the socio-economic situation of these regions, align their development with the rest of the european union and enhance their resources in complementarity with community needs.
we must also take account, i agree, of small and mediumsized enterprises, and especially the environment.
the burning of nomad camps, night raids, warrantless arrests, threats to mobilise the army to fight crime - all of this reflects a climate of painful intolerance for the 21st century and is a dangerous situation for the future of the eu.
when it comes to the legalization of the climate of ethnic and racial hatred, i believe it is the duty of the eu to consider the adoption of possible sanctions against a government that violates the values that are the foundation of a united europe.
today, the female researchers of yesterday are selling insurance policies, are working or have left their home countries, with multiple negative consequences: waste of human resources, high dissatisfaction and obstacles to development.
in this respect, i believe that special attention should be paid to the delta and estuary areas, where failed vessels can have a negative impact on the environment.
climate change is already affecting the european union.
the union has taken on an important role in the fight against climate change both in mitigating the causes and in adapting to climate change.
the lisbon treaty mentions provisions on climate change and i also welcome the solidarity clause in the event of natural disasters.
unfortunately, global environmental governance is decentralised and sometimes lacks coherence in overall decisions.
we need to have consistency in climate change action, cleaner transport, research and development programmes, adapting agriculture to a proper water use, reforestation and, above all, better waste management.
the karl-heinz florenz report is particularly comprehensive, demonstrating that the scientific data are sufficient to make strong political decisions and trigger concrete actions not only at european level but also at global level to drastically reduce the anthropogenic phenomena responsible for climate change and to mitigate its effects.
research efforts must continue, particularly in the fields of new technologies, renewable energy and biofuels, to strike the balance between maintaining economic competitiveness, social development and ensuring food and energy security, which are essential for the well-being of european citizens.
the scientific community and political representatives need to join forces in supporting public awareness-raising activities and engaging citizens in concrete activities, as exchange of best practices, cooperation and dialogue at international, regional and, in particular, cross-border levels, as well as direct involvement of citizens are the most effective ways to combat climate change.
the fight against climate change has become an increasingly common topic on the agenda of international organisations.
since the 2007 summit, which set a target of 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and the use of renewable energy sources by 2020, global warming has become a priority for all the world's states.
this decision was followed by other important international events such as the g8 heiligendamm summit, the united nations council debate on climate change and the bali action plan.
as a result of these efforts, an international scientific consensus has emerged that human activities are the cause of global warming trends.
, and the results of the research and data collection are sufficient to trigger urgent policy action and decision-making to reduce emissions.
the creation of the adaptation fund and the inclusion of forests in a new climate protection agreement aimed at avoiding further deforestation and carbon emissions from forest fires is essential.
raising public awareness by communicating scientific evidence of the human impact on global climate will play a key role in gaining the support of eu citizens for policy measures to reduce carbon emissions.
− i voted in favour of this report, but i believe that we need to put in place a more comprehensive package of measures to guarantee the simplification of the european business environment.
i also tabled an amendment calling on the commission and the member states to support and accelerate the implementation of projects declared by the european council to be of european interest for energy security and the diversification of the european union's energy supply sources.
i want to draw attention to the insufficiency of european funds to support the european union's ambitious climate change objectives.
with regard to the opportunities presented by sustainable industrial policies, the eu has to take into account the potential presented by the industries of the new member states.
the urgent adoption of a comprehensive small business act will contribute greatly to the development of the sme sectors in all member states, thus also contributing to the reinforcement of the leading role of europe in sustainable and technology-oriented industrial production.
the prospect of economic recession, fuelled by the current financial crisis and increasing energy costs, the unsatisfactory status of transatlantic relations and the increasing assertiveness of russia, which confront europe more and more with old-style geopolitical challenges for which it is no longer equipped, are only a reflection of the current international environment.
in this context, against the background of increasing eu dependence on russian supplies, energy tends to become the litmus test for success or failure in achieving the aim of a common eu foreign policy, because it makes all the difference whether europe agrees to create a single energy market and consequently approaches suppliers, primarily russia, with one voice, or continues to preserve the current national divides and give priority to bilateral preferential supply contracts destined to satisfy its increasing energy needs.
it is equally important to mobilise all efforts to ensure the successful and speedy implementation of the nabucco energy project and to resolve the conflicts in the region.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner verheugen for including on the agenda of the us-eu summit the issue of visas, which is of particular concern to the citizens of my country, whom i represent here in the european parliament, and also to insist that the us join the european union in responding to the challenges posed by climate change, otherwise all european companies will be at a disadvantage in competition with the united states.
i would like to say a few words about climate change, mr president, if i may.
i am pleased that two important meetings on climate change and energy took place during our presidency, namely the 'high level dialogue on climate change, clean energy and sustainable development' and then the 'strategic energy review'.
but i should also say that the european union is firmly of the opinion that the fight against climate change should be addressed primarily within the united nations.
as vice-president of the envi commission, i encourage the eu representatives present at the meeting with the us officials to consider solutions to the climate change issue.
climate change is a global challenge to which we must prepare a global response.
i also appreciate that the president of the united states finally acknowledged that we need legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i encourage the eu representatives to discuss a real percentage cut to really help stop global warming.
at the same time, future discussions on the collaborative climate change framework must be based on real studies on renewable energy sources.
this will protect biodiversity and avoid food price increases due to the reduction of agricultural land.
a common voice approach to external energy relations is needed.
the agreements signed by italy, hungary and bulgaria with russia for the construction of south stream, a pipeline designed to bypass without economic reasons one member state, which is romania, seriously affect the cohesion of european energy policy and represent political gestures that must be avoided between member states.
with the energy security package due to be adopted in the second half of this year, i believe we need to show a level of ambition comparable to that shown for the 'energy - climate change' package.
despite the €41 billion allocated to agriculture in 2008, rising farm labour costs and rising energy prices are driving up agricultural commodity prices and worsening the economic situation of farmers.
the main objective of eu development policy and the gsp is to contribute to poverty eradication, the promotion of sustainable development and good governance, principles recognised by international conventions and instruments such as the millennium declaration, the rio declaration 1992, the ilo declaration 1998. through the implementation of the gsp since 1971, the eu has facilitated international trade with developing and least developed countries, providing them with the technical assistance necessary to comply with international conventions and the appropriate institutional and regulatory capacity to take advantage of international trade and the gsp.
in other words, the proposed elements were introduced to improve the efficiency of the system and to ensure optimal protection of marine biodiversity.
the frequency of climate change-related disasters is increasing and requires multilateral and coordinated responses that mobilise all available resources, taking into account issues such as speed, effectiveness and financial return.
in romania, only 30% of citizens know that this number can be called in an emergency from any eu country and national authorities need to continue their efforts towards promoting this number to react quickly to climate change problems and beyond.
it is also important to stress that we cannot create the conditions for sustainable social development without the necessary financial resources.
− the aim of the revision of this directive is to create a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework, aligned with the objectives of the waste prevention and recycling strategy so that europe becomes a recycling society with an increased level of resource efficiency in waste.
• a waste management hierarchy in 5 steps is established: prevention, preparation for re-use, recycling, recovery with energy recovery and final disposal (including storage) of waste;• measures/plans to prevent waste generation;• mandatory recycling targets for municipal waste, as well as for construction and demolition waste; • the extended responsibility of the manufacturer to provide information to the public on the possibilities of re-use and recycling of products.
the measures to be taken in the member states to achieve all the above objectives should encourage the modernisation or establishment of new waste recycling, reconditioning for re-use, i.e.
i voted for the revision of the waste framework directive because all these measures contribute to the creation of new jobs, the safe and sustainable management of waste, the rational use of natural resources and adaptation to climate change (development of non-ets sectors).
− the main elements of the proposed directive are:- the establishment of water quality standards (eqs) for priority and priority hazardous substances:- the introduction of the concept of 'mixing zones' - within the perimeter of which eqs can be exceeded - the establishment of an inventory of discharges, emissions and losses of priority and priority hazardous substances that facilitates the monitoring of the achievement of the objectives of the water framework directive at the relevant point sources of pollution, and the assessment of the impact of the application of the 'polluter pays' principle - the introduction of provisions on cross-border pollution.
they exclude the sole responsibility of the member state for exceeding the eqs if it demonstrates that the exceedance is due to cross-border pollution, but require joint action.
i voted for environmental quality standards in the field of water policy, because it is salutary to introduce provisions on 'cross-border pollution', especially in the case of romania, given that we have a border with non-eu countries and are not obliged to comply with the standards imposed at community level.
we therefore expect that the agency's work will strengthen the role of national regulators and support their functioning, enable the technical harmonisation of european networks as a condition for a real internal market and make possible the reciprocal supply of energy between member states, take account of the interests of consumers and closely monitor developments on the energy market.
we expect the agency to be a useful instrument of the common energy policy.
we do not expect that the granting of these powers will reduce the european commission's responsibilities towards parliament and in the implementation of energy policy, nor that technical decisions will replace political ones.
sufficient and affordable energy for all remains our ultimate goal.
madam president, the european energy market today continues to reflect, in my opinion, an old market structure dominated by national or regional monopolies, and this in spite of the evident benefits that liberalisation brings for european customers in terms of price, cost reduction and efficiency.
i also welcome the steps that we are taking to ensure ownership unbundling as a necessary measure to finally complete our liberalisation of the energy market.
diversification and security of energy supply must now be as high on our agenda as liberalisation.
the security of the union's energy supply requires huge investments and investors need a predictable environment that encourages investments in the medium and long term.
in the context of climate change, the union has set itself the target of at least 20% of energy coming from renewable sources by 2020. access to the grid for power transmission is essential.
in recent years we have seen the rapid rise in energy prices, and european citizens expect the european institutions to respond to their problems.
the accessibility and availability of energy are essential for economic and social life.
the establishment of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators will ensure better protection of the interests of energy consumers.
finally, the lisbon treaty is the necessary reform step for the european institutions to function more effectively in the increasingly difficult global conditions to which each member state must respond: economic competitiveness, climate change, rising natural resource prices and many others that affect us all equally.
it addresses the issue of climate change, defines the european economy as a social market economy, stresses the need for a common energy policy and, above all, gives legal force to the european charter of fundamental rights.
the european commission is rightly discussing structural solutions to save and diversify energy.
i therefore believe that the european commission must review and re-examine the financial perspective for 2007-13 in order to increase its efforts for new technologies and investments in the energy sector.
the area where this has been particularly exposed and most frequently exposed is the energy sector.
and so it is high time that a common european external energy policy really came to life.
let me just say this: if we in the european union were able to establish a real internal energy market by now, it would not matter where the pipeline or the oil pipeline goes.
firstly, russia is today a very important energy partner and, as a result of getting the negotiating mandate for the new agreement, we already have a common eu position on energy, because we have a common mandate.
as i said before, we want to enshrine the principles of the energy charter in the new agreement.
one of the objectives of the european union energy policy is to diversify routes of supply and sources of energy to increase competition and security in the eu energy market.
i think russia will remain a key supplier to us, but any rational consumer spreads risks, particularly with energy prices skyrocketing.
– this future directive is a big step forward towards protecting our safety and our environment, as it introduces european rules for transport of dangerous goods not only by road and rail but also by inland waterways.
if we take the case of cyanide, an extremely toxic material, 14% of the cyanide releases into the environment were caused by transport accidents.
these figures highlight the vulnerability of cyanide transport and underlines the need for stronger environmental and safety standards.
however, the car remains europeans' favourite means of transport, and this preference unfortunately leads to numerous problems, both socially and in terms of environmental protection, as well as accidents with material damage and, above all, loss of life.
this can save thousands of lives, reduce pollution, smooth traffic, and actually improve both the comfort and safety of drivers and the relationships between road partners.
the european commission and the member states must also continue their efforts to harmonise the legislative framework for ecall and the 112 emergency number, which are essential pillars of safety and for strengthening sustainable mobility and the well-being of european citizens.
- i voted in favour of the report by mrs de vits on the european charter of the rights of energy consumers.
given rising energy prices, it is necessary to guarantee the supply of lower-income citizens and people living in remote regions where energy markets are small and uncompetitive.
they advocated the introduction of social tariffs, quarterly information to consumers on their own energy consumption and required the public to be informed of the provisions of the european charter of energy consumers' rights.
the protection of energy consumers must continue to be based on joint action by the union and the member states.
the european charter of the rights of energy consumers is a way of helping citizens to obtain information about their rights in a more efficient and simple way.
the objective of this review is to ensure a more efficient use of transport infrastructure and to reduce the negative effects of transport on the environment, on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle.
sustainable economic growth in the union also depends on the development of greener and more energy-efficient transport.
i ask the european commission to take the internalisation of external costs of transport into a broader context, namely to review the reduced vat rates applicable in the union, as well as directive 14 of 2001 on the charging and pricing of access to rail transport infrastructure and directive 96 / 2003 on energy taxation.
i therefore believe that the report has highlighted the budgetary shortcomings in combating global warming, but has not sufficiently stressed the issue of the food crisis facing the citizens of the european union.
the jutta haug report looks at the detail of the 2009 budget, focusing on current priorities at eu level, including the fight against climate change and solidarity with poorer regions.
this report deals with environmental problems, but it cannot and will not deal with environmental problems alone.
i would like to stress first of all that we will support any project that can improve europe's energy supply.
i therefore regret that the european union has not yet adopted a common energy policy.
the european union needs common standards, and not just from an environmental point of view, when it comes to large-scale nordstream projects.
the history of human development, especially in the industrial age, has left behind real environmental catastrophes.
– the impulse provided by the nord stream debate represents a good start for europe to finally speak with one voice on energy security issues and to focus on an effective common energy policy.
energy security is a vital element in the context of overall eu security and should therefore be treated with utmost care especially in the face of a growing dependency on energy imports, expected to reach 65% by 2030. dependency on gas alone is expected to rise to 84% of supply by 2030. attention should be given to the eu’s distinctive relationship with russia: emphasis should be placed on the creation and observance of equal access conditions and fair treatment of both russian investors in the eu as well as eu investors in russia.
moreover, i wish to acknowledge the importance of russia’s possible ratification of the energy charter treaty and the transit protocol in the avoidance of potential nord-stream-project-related disagreements.
i would like again to bring into discussion the potentially disastrous environmental consequences that the nord stream project poses, given its scale and proposed route, and to present my support for an alternative inland route.
the european union needs an integrated, common and coherent energy policy and a long-term strategy for ensuring the energy independence of the member states.
environmental and geopolitical issues of energy security must be addressed by the european union through a concerted effort of all member states, and not through bilateral treaties concluded by some member states with russia.
only in this way can the eu achieve a strong position in the negotiations with russia, avoiding energy resources as a political lever and making the eu an equal partner of russia.
at the same time, the solution of a common european energy policy can compensate for the inability of the right-wing governments in bucharest to promote romania's energy interests in relation to russia.
the compromise text drawn up by peter liese is a step forward in the implementation of the european union's climate change agenda.
the speedy reunification of the european skies will lead to shorter routes, which will mean lower fuel consumption and, consequently, lower emissions, which will mean lower costs under the ets and, consequently, more affordable prices.
this directive is an ambitious initiative that will enable the aviation sector to play an important role in the fight against climate change.
the negotiations for this compromise were difficult because they had to take into account the price of oil, the competitiveness of european airlines and environmental protection, trying to create a model system on the international stage for the inclusion of aviation in the ets.
penalising the domestic aviation industry will lead to the phenomenon of 'carbon leakage', i.e.
we must find a balance between environmental protection, consumer protection and the aviation sector if we want european airspace to be more efficient.
the revenue from auctioning allowances will also have to be used for greenhouse gas emissions reduction and climate change adaptation, without giving member states the possibility to use this money for other purposes.
if we can use this auction revenue in a fair and just way as an environmental tool, we can avoid the penalty of getting an international agreement.
the question of the common energy policy must be solved by making it community.
however, until then, bilateral agreements will have to be integrated into a genuine internal energy policy to ensure that two key objectives are achieved: 1. the outcome of all negotiations is beneficial to each member state2.
these are, in my view, the conditions for any european union energy strategy and it is the great challenge that the european parliament will have in the coming period.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that an integrated approach to the greenhouse gas emission trading system within the community is needed.
given that aviation contributes to the global impact of human activities on climate change, it is natural that this sector should benefit from fair treatment and harmonised rules and regulations at community level.
− as rapporteur on black sea cooperation, i would like to express my support for the libicki report simply because the subject it deals with is of a strategic nature, going beyond the baltic sea area and the field of environmental protection.
we have discussed a common problem, known to both the baltic and the black sea regions and affecting the whole of europe: energy security and european policy in this area.
given the eu's dependence on a limited number of sources, suppliers and transport routes, it is vital that their diversification is the fundamental principle of the european energy security concept.
equally important is the development of a coherent european energy policy, based on solidarity and coordination, to avoid the conclusion of bilateral agreements which could harm the interests of other member states and, above all, undermine major projects such as nabucco, which are recognised at european level.
i therefore reiterate and insist on the call to the commission and the council to redouble their efforts to ensure the successful implementation of the nabucco project and to articulate a clear common energy policy.
- welcomes the position adopted by the european parliament on the construction of a gas pipeline linking russia to germany; the european union needs a common and coherent integrated energy policy and a long-term strategy for ensuring the energy independence of the member states.
environmental and geopolitical issues of energy security must be addressed by the european union through a concerted effort of all member states, and not through bilateral treaties concluded by some member states with russia.
only in this way can the eu achieve a strong position in the negotiations with russia, avoiding energy resources as a political lever and making the eu an equal partner of russia.
at the same time, the solution of a common european energy policy can compensate for the inability of the right-wing governments in bucharest to promote romania's energy interests in relation to russia.
we are establishing a new energy research agenda for europe, which is much needed in view of the challenges we shall be facing in the next decade.
the commission believes that europe should lower the costs of clean energy and put industry at the forefront of the low-carbon technology sector.
this is why i regret that the commission did not publish the communication on financing for new low-carbon technologies.
while i believe this technology might help industry to reduce co2 emissions, i cannot accept that european taxpayers’ money be used to finance the development of a ccs infrastructure that will be someone’s business in the end.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their long-term strategic approach to the question of natural gas in the european union and energy research.
the european union imported 62% of its gas in 2006, and its demand for and dependence on imported gas will increase to 80% by 2030. it is therefore important to find concrete answers to the questions of ensuring the energy security of the european union and the efficient functioning of the energy market.
secondly, it is essential to extend the application of these rules to third country companies active in the energy sector in the european union.
finally, i fully support the idea of strengthening the scientific research sector in the field of energy as a key element of that long-term policy.
the union needs a common energy policy.
regional cooperation is essential for ensuring the security of energy supply of the union.
i also asked, in an amendment, that for any natural gas pipeline project crossing the union's neighbouring seas, the commission and the member states concerned should carry out an environmental impact study.
we are debating today three reports of importance to the union's energy policy, which refer to energy technology, energy security and the fight against energy poverty as key factors in achieving energy and climate change objectives.
the report by mr paparizov defines a new concept of access to the natural gas transmission networks; the report by mr la russa makes an important contribution to the definition of the medium- and long-term strategy for the internal market in natural gas; and the report by mr buzek stresses the need to develop strategic energy technologies.
it is now time for the commission and the council to encourage explicitly and concretely the diversification of sources of supply and the creation of new gas storage capacities to ensure the union's energy independence and security.
today energy is almost synonymous with foreign policy and tends to relegate even climate change to a secondary position.
our national energy systems are parochial, monopolistic, complicated and obscure.
thus efforts to create a single integrated energy market are increasingly resisted and europe’s objective to reduce its dependency on foreign supply sources becomes almost unreachable.
therefore europe urgently needs to overhaul the current arrangements, push decisively for a single energy market and start investing massively in research on alternative sources of energy.
one solution to energy-efficient and less polluting community transport is the development of modern rail transport, both for passengers and freight.
we are seeing in real terms an increased demand for new and diversified modes of transport, which is leading to increased energy consumption, increased land use, and a progressive deterioration in air and soil quality.
although there are major differences in national legislation on urban transport and spatial planning, the community institutions can be actively involved in coordinating sustainable urban development and, in particular, urban transport services and can work to ensure the effective dissemination of good practice.
locations with access to an inland waterway can develop intermodal transport to reduce pollution from road traffic in large cities.
but this model, fostered by the proliferation of the car, is no longer sustainable today, in the context of unprecedented fuel prices and concern about global climate change, among which the internal combustion engine is a major source of pollution.
initiatives that would enable european cities to plan efficient public transport systems that respect the environment and are accessible to all are welcome, as is the integration into urban planning of alternative modes of transport, whether they are short-distance or varied depending on the time of day.
unfortunately, a reverse situation is under way nowadays because of huge energy and food price rises which reflect the increasing scarcity of available resources.
more economic divergence in the euro area, which would not foster a good climate for the european central bank’s moves.
we do not yet know whether the current level of energy and food prices is the one on which the whole price structure will be based, nor do we know what public policy measures member states will take to facilitate the process of adjustment of businesses and economies and households to the new price structure.
this worrying level of inflation rates results largely from sharp increases in energy and food prices at the global level in recent months.
in particular, risks stem from the dampening impact on consumption and investment of further unanticipated increases in energy and food prices.
this will ensure the irreversibility and sustainability of the process and we will continue to monitor closely progress in all areas, in particular with regard to compliance with the copenhagen criteria.
there are economic necessities that do not allow us to suspend enlargement, for example the energy dossier.
since we failed to tell our citizens that the rights they have already acquired are not sustainable, they think that they can preserve those rights by opposing both enlargement and reform.
this has contributed to greater prosperity, growth opportunities, and vital transport and energy corridors.
i support the rapporteur's view that the eastern states should be encouraged to create a common policy area focusing on economic, trade, energy, transport, environment, rule of law, justice and security.
france is responsible for ensuring the continuity of the ratification process of the lisbon treaty, focusing on energy and strengthening the european union's security and defence policy.
the french presidency has announced that its priorities for the coming period are: climate change, migration, the common agricultural policy, defence and security of the union.
the union must set an example of action in the fight against climate change and therefore the adoption of the energy and climate change package must be one of the main objectives of the french presidency.
it signals russia’s military comeback, heralded by its offensive energy supply policy initiated in 2006. the eu is caught between principles and economic interests.
in its turn, russia is equally caught between the profits from its energy sales to the west and respect for international legality.
it would be a major waste for the entire international community if russia chose to invest its newly-acquired energies in a futile attempt to restore the bipolar world, instead of associating itself with shaping the new, multipolar, globalised one.
it is a geopolitical confrontation at global level which takes place within an unregulated international environment where the unilateralists are clashing.
third, it highlights the weak position of europe due to increasing energy dependence on russia and the delay in ratification of the lisbon treaty.
finally, the eu's efforts to ensure its energy security must be stepped up to the maximum, including through the nabucco project.
we focus on the energy situation in europe, russia's "imperialist" position and georgia's nationalism and lack of diplomacy, but we forget that people and, above all, hopes have died in this conflict.
but the russian federation must receive a unified message from the eu: it must respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, withdraw its troops from frozen conflict zones, respect the international conventions and treaties it has signed, and not base its foreign policy on its status as an energy supplier.
this unity of the member states must also be reflected in the union's future actions: a common energy policy based on the creation of new transport routes using sources different from the current ones, the development of a set of policies in the black sea that is commensurate with the geo-strategic and security importance of the area, and the active involvement and promotion of new mechanisms for resolving frozen conflicts in the area.
at the same time, europe needs to accelerate the development of european energy projects (such as nabucco and p8).
even if the main focus is on georgia, considering the geographical position of azerbaijan, i think we must also take into account the need to establish an eu-azerbaijan partnership to support and continue eu energy projects.
the situation in the region makes it necessary to establish a partnership between the european union and azerbaijan this year, giving europe the opportunity to continue its energy projects.
azerbaijan should receive special attention from the european union, also on the basis of the fact that it has a very balanced policy in the region and that it is willing to contribute to the implementation of the european union's energy projects.
their implementation will have beneficial effects on public health, environmental protection and the development of a safe chemical industry and trade, and consumer information is very important.
i ask the commission not to abandon the proposal to apply the new regulation throughout the product life cycle, including when the product becomes waste.
i would like to make it clear once again that the policy of this commission will be to use all its energy to ensure that animal testing is reduced as far as possible.
the proposal for a decision implementing the globally harmonized system of classification and labelling of chemicals (ghs) is an important step in protecting the environment, consumers who will have more choice and companies looking to enter the international market.
the use of hydrogen as a fuel, whether as fuel cells or as internal combustion engines, does not generate carbon emissions or greenhouse gases.
new legislation on the classification, packaging and labelling of substances and mixtures will provide greater protection for health and the environment.
in order to achieve the environmental benefits associated with the use of hydrogen-based vehicles, hydrogen must be produced in a sustainable way, improving noise and air quality levels in advance.
in view of the global problems caused by climate change and the lack of energy sources, the promotion of hydrogen-powered vehicles must be done internationally, especially in developing countries, but also in the united states, to ensure better protection of the environment against global warming.
in order to protect against future challenges of this nature, europe must find alternative energy sources and strengthen the european security and defence policy as set out in the treaty of lisbon.
one of the conditions for the sustainability of this system is based on two pillars: the first is that these systems must be credible, which implies that the greatest attention should be paid to updating these lists so that they can reflect reality.
thirdly, beneficiaries are also given the option of rail transport for short-haul routes, which in the long run can bring environmental benefits by reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
an integrated approach is needed for a competitive european policy, linking economic, environmental, social and security aspects.
it considers investment in new and improved facilities, waste treatment facilities, emission reductions, simplification of procedures, transparency of public financing, health and safety at work to be a priority.
climate change is having a significant impact on human health, with the proliferation of certain infectious and parasitic diseases, caused in particular by the rise in temperature.
reducing emissions from transport, which account for 70% of urban pollution, will help improve air quality.
directives such as fuel quality, reducing car emissions, promoting green vehicles for urban transport, will help reduce environmental pollution.
i would add that the union's population is ageing and i believe that the european health and environment plan must address the problems facing the elderly.
the economic sustainability of the union is based on a young and healthy european population and therefore the union must come up with a concrete plan of measures to ensure the natural boost that the community needs.
i welcome the inclusion in the report of a reference to the obligation of the commission and the member states to support the action plan for the environment and children's health in europe.
in addition to living in a natural environment that is increasingly dangerous to their health, it seems that the social environment in which children are growing up is not the best one.
i consider very important amendment no 5, which calls for universal, accessible, sustainable and affordable public services, ensuring high quality standards for all, and amendment no 10, which calls on the commission to become more involved in the fight against counterfeiting, especially on the internet, and calls on the commission to submit to the parliament and the council a proposal on the provision of qualitative and statistical data at european level on counterfeiting, especially on the internet, to the community and the member states.
− the enthusiasm of february 2005, when the 'european action plan for environment and health 2004-2010' was approved, has been dissipated without many of the proposed measures having been implemented.
these deadlines and actions are particularly urgent in this decade when the biggest challenge to public health in the field of environmental protection is adapting to climate change.
the report calls on the commission to develop guides to good practice containing measures to be taken by regional and local authorities in cooperation with other institutions, as well as programmes to educate and raise awareness of the population in order to increase awareness of adaptation to the effects of climate change.
esteemed colleagues, in consideration of these facts i suggest we ask the commission to start an eu-wide information campaign on the risks and benefits that gmo represent to people and the environment.
sustainable development of the european union's economies in the years ahead can only be achieved by strengthening the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the union, which account for around 4/5 of new jobs created in the union.
we have agreed that european energy policy should aim to reduce the union's energy dependence, guarantee security of supply and price transparency.
we can see today that the european gas market is characterised by a great dynamism in all areas: energy policy, technical equipment, the gas business itself and price transparency, with the way in which prices are set being a priority component for the protection of the european consumer.
the scoreboard is an important policy tool, in that it calls on the commission to further develop the range of information and indicators it contains, including quality, the social conditions of workers, and the impact on the environment and climate change.
in line with the union's slogan 'unity in diversity', i welcome the parliament's decision to ask the european commission to draw up an integrated strategy for the sustainable development and use of resources in mountain areas, which can offer equal opportunities to european citizens who have chosen to live in the more difficult conditions of mountain areas.
the mountain will thus be able to become a protected area, capable of sustainable development and a true oasis for european and international tourists.
we need an integrated european strategy for the sustainable development of the mountain area.
- i voted for this report because the new legislative proposal adapts the regulation on waste statistics to the comitology procedure, i.e.
the european parliament resolution also calls on the commission to stop delaying the submission of evaluation reports on pilot studies designed to avoid double reporting of waste statistics.
− the lack of statistical data on waste generation and management prevents the european union from implementing a harmonised waste policy.
statistical tools are necessary to assess compliance with the principle of preventing environmental degradation due to the use of waste and monitoring it at the time of its production, collection and disposal.
as regards statistics from agriculture, fisheries and forestry, it is necessary to consider to what extent the treatment of agricultural waste and organic waste will be covered by this regulation.
these accidents have caused immense damage both to coastal areas and to the marine environment.
the debate has produced, and i share this analysis, the following: i do not think we should dwell too much on questions of competence, whether it be the european union or nato, we cannot waste time.
that is why we must not waste any more time, but i think that today the european union's will has clearly emerged, particularly the council's, with the support of the commission, to intervene and to continue to act firmly to prevent and, i believe, with strategic plans to prevent the intensification of terrorist action.
after more than 20 years of tropical timber agreements, their impact on the sustainable management of tropical forests seems limited.
it is a pity that parliamentarians and civil society are not more involved in the design of such agreements, in order to balance trade interests and push for a more sustainable management of tropical forests.
in europe we might think that we have effective mechanisms to protect biodiversity and the consumer, but reality proves us wrong.
as a main importer and consumer of wood and having committed itself to halving deforestation as part of its plans to fight climate change, the eu has a responsibility in combating illegal logging and trade in illegally harvested timber products.
i believe that the international tropical timber agreement will help ensure the sustainable management of the world's forest stock, even though almost 80% of it has already been destroyed or degraded.
we all know that forests are the cradle of biodiversity conservation and play a crucial role in the fight against climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the instability of financial markets, fluctuations in fuel prices, terrorism, the specter of the cold war, the urgent need for energy security, the acute effects of climate change are threats that the european union can only overcome through unity and consensus.
the programme must cover the issues on which the future of the union depends: the common energy policy, the common foreign and security policy, the reform of the neighbourhood policy framework and the strengthening of commitments to the western balkan countries, moldova and ukraine, countries that need the european union and which the union needs.
the positive vote on key issues such as clarifying and enhancing user rights, strengthening the protection of personal data, creating a body of european regulators (bert) and better managing radio spectrum underlines the epp-ed's concern to strike a balance between ensuring the fundamental right of eu citizens to be integrated into the information society and creating the favourable environment for innovation and economic development.
according to research, at least 20% of the energy consumed in the european union is wasted.
it should be noted that the energy saving potential of dwellings is close to 30%, i.e.
one third of the energy currently consumed by dwellings can be saved.
this would be a practical, practical, and long-term solution to the problems that energy prices cause citizens.
as the eu economy is still heavily dependent on energy imports, a common energy policy based on the principles of solidarity, security and diversification of sources and routes of external supply is needed.
but today i am urging the commission and the council to come up with concrete measures to reduce the eu's energy dependence in the near future.
the french presidency, as i have said, will do everything in its power and will use all its energy to increase the necessary coordination and adaptation of the rules in this area.
as regards the external relations aspects, which have been raised by president saryusz-wolski and mrs isler béguin, i would like to reply to president wolski that the european council will, as i have already said, have as its priority the definition of very precise guidelines and guidelines on energy security and solidarity.
we had an energy crisis three months ago.
countries were dependent on other countries for energy supplies.
we must have a european energy policy that is real, and here too we have come too late and we must move quickly.
but three months ago, it was an energy crisis.
some of them have rightly mentioned the importance of the debates on energy and climate change which are to take place in the european council.
climate change can irreversibly affect all the planet's water resources and therefore adapting all compartments of socio-economic life to counteract the effects of water scarcity is essential.
the european and international legislative frameworks offer effective leverage, but we need real progress in the accelerated practical implementation of all the measures envisaged, first of all those in the convention to combat desertification and those in the water framework directive, whose far too long implementation deadlines put the sustainability of resource security at risk.
i also call for urgent implementation of concrete measures for the rational use of water bodies, especially those in which hydroelectric power stations are built and, in particular, the rivers that cool nuclear power stations, since the irrational use, combined with the sharp decline in flows, can lead to the closure of many clean electricity production facilities and, consequently, to the destabilisation of the european energy system, with major risks to the energy security of the union.
water scarcity and drought have become major problems both within the european union and globally, especially in the context of climate change which has aggravated the situation.
these have adverse side effects on biodiversity, water and soil quality and increase the risk of forest fires, as demonstrated by the devastating fires that have recently engulfed southern europe.
access to decent work for all citizens must be a priority of member states' employment policies, as it is the basic mechanism for social inclusion and the only sustainable solution to combating poverty.
the report captures the essential link between poor enforcement of eu environmental legislation and the negative consequences for citizens' quality of life.
the fight to reduce the health impacts of climate change must also be supported by active climate change adaptation policies.
an example of this is the development of methodologies to predict and prevent major health problems that may arise depending on the severity of the effects of climate change, taking into account socio-economic circumstances.
efforts must be stepped up to meet the target proposed by the commission in 2005 of reducing the number of deaths caused by air pollution by 40% by 2020. studies have shown that two out of every five deaths worldwide are directly or indirectly linked to environmental factors.
the integration of the so-called new members is not complete, the treaty of lisbon is not yet ratified by all member states and our dependence on imported energy is increasing.
it will maintain what has been done in previous years regarding current internet protection but build on these successful activities and enhance the safety of children in the online environment of today.
that is why we will actively pursue our efforts towards creating a safer online environment for children by informing parents, empowering teachers and asking for coordinated action by national governments and educational societies.
through the opinion of the legal affairs committee, we sought to establish a european strategy to combat psychological manipulation in the online environment and to protect the physical, mental and moral integrity of children who could be harmed by accessing inappropriate content through new media.
the programme, as announced, will tackle harmful and illegal content, and will place a strong emphasis on increasingly conscious use of the internet and supporting the creation of a safe online environment.
the model in visual media, where tv programmes mention the minimum age for the film or programme to be viewed, needs to be adapted to the online environment, with the labelling of websites as 'child-friendly' being a first step towards protecting children from illegal content online.
the internet must remain an open but at the same time secure environment.
unfortunately, many parents and teachers are staying away from the digital environment and not taking the necessary steps to protect their children online.
i believe it is essential that climate change is not a one-off commitment, but that the importance of preventive action is taken into account in all eu initiatives, and in particular in those related to development aid.
beyond solidarity, the european union must also demonstrate its responsibility towards other parts of the world, and the global climate change alliance is an important step in this direction.
so we share your philosophy and want to see a good balance between competitiveness and sustainability.
we must, and i say this to other speakers, keep to the path and that is why we are sticking to the energy-climate package.
i believe that the commission's proposal is geared towards growth and sustainable development and that we should not deviate from this, but we will come back to this in the debate tomorrow.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
however, account must be taken of the different national energy sources and of sectoral balances.
president saryusz-wolski is quite right, this is an extremely important point, we have not sufficiently emphasized the council's conclusions, particularly in the field of energy security.
what was done at the last european council on energy security is an extremely important point.
and, of course, it is through this that a certain europe of energy was born at the last european council.
we have said what mr rosati said, and we must therefore take account of the specificities of the polish energy situation, particularly with regard to coal, but it is clear that poland will also have a responsibility to fulfil in the preparations for the poznan summit at the end of the year.
the financial crisis must not erase the response to the ecological crisis, and we must not hide behind the financial crisis.
i welcome, as mr rübig does, the agreement reached on the third energy pathway.
similarly, it would be important to have tax incentives for energy savings.
in relation to what mr chichester said, it is true that we must have structural solutions both for the financial crisis - that is the challenge of the next international summits - and for climate change, and above all we must have good regulation and not overregulation.
of course, we must use the budget, the national budgets, without creating sustainability problems for the future, but by using the room for manoeuvre of fiscal and budgetary policy within the framework of the stability pact for growth, which was revised in 2005. there is a lot of room for flexibility, but there is also the need - and you are the budgetary authority, together with the council - to start imagining the budget of europe.
i reiterate the urgency of developing a common european energy policy to promote energy security and european unity, and to diversify energy supplies through firm support for strategic projects such as nabucco.
the financial, energy and political security and the strengthening of the core values of the european project can only be ensured through a close partnership with neighbours.
− i voted for the report 'creating a global climate change alliance between the european union and poor developing countries' because they are the most vulnerable to climate change.
the 2007 review of the eu action plan on climate change and development referred to above shows that progress in mainstreaming climate change into the european union's development policies has been insufficient and far too slow.
although the eu has set itself the objective of becoming a leader in the fight against climate change, the eu budget does not reflect the priority given to these policies.
the report calls for the eu to give climate change a central place in the development of its cooperation policy and invites the commission to provide detailed information on current climate change and development finance mechanisms at national and international level.
the commission should propose without delay the necessary measures to increase eu financial support for climate change and development, ensuring the best possible coordination and complementarity with existing initiatives.
− even if progress and efficiency in agricultural, plant and animal production are inconceivable without major breakthroughs in the field of genetics, it is necessary to establish optimal biosecurity measures for the use of genetically modified microorganisms under isolation conditions, as we must respect the precautionary principle in order to protect human health and the environment.
energy, security and common neighbourhood issues need a concept of common management which does not yet exist.
− the directive introduces green criteria among the criteria analysed for the purchase of clean and energy-efficient public road transport vehicles.
urban transport initiatives such as the civitas and smart energy europe programmes must also be continued.
the tran committee proposed the use of the inscription 'energy-efficient and clean urban road transport' by authorities whose purchases of green vehicles are included in the total of specific annual purchases.
i congratulate the rapporteur and i am convinced that this document will change the behaviour of local public authorities towards the environment.
the directive makes local authorities aware of the environmental impact of urban transport.
member states may apply stricter award criteria for the purchase of clean and energy-efficient vehicles than those proposed in the directive and may opt for the purchase of retrofitted vehicles or upgrade existing vehicles by adding particulate filters or adapting engines to less polluting fuels.
i personally believe that the purchase of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles, including the subsequent installation of engines and spare parts in these vehicles, when they have not exceeded 75% of their total mileage over their lifetime, should be possible.
i think these elements are necessary because this is an investment that has to be sustainable.
the introduction of clean and energy-efficient vehicles on the market will make a significant contribution to environmental protection, improving air quality and making transport more energy-efficient by reducing pollutant emissions.
the objectives of the air quality directive and those of the green paper on sustainable urban mobility can be more effectively implemented by promoting green public transport.
at the same time, japan's car industry, which is very focused on making clean cars, is a threat to the european union market, which needs to invest more in the technological development of low-carbon vehicles and in the promotion of alternative fuels.
in order to encourage car manufacturers to produce as many green cars as possible, it is necessary that public procurement takes into account the lifetime costs of those vehicles and their impact on the environment and public health.
these requirements will not, however, distort competition between the public and private sectors, as long as the latter are subject to the same environmental rules and criteria in the provision of public transport services.
−this directive introduces a harmonised methodology for the procurement of 'clean' and energy-efficient vehicles for the provision of sustainable public transport services; it also contributes to the priorities set in the context of the lisbon strategy.
an explicit requirement that all purchases of road transport vehicles by public authorities and by operators providing services under a contract with a public authority, as well as purchases of road transport vehicles for the provision of public passenger transport services, take into account energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and pollutant emissions.
vehicle owners would directly benefit from the long-term energy savings, which would far exceed a possibly higher vehicle price.
promoting 'clean' and energy-efficient vehicles through public procurement for the provision of public transport services stimulated by this initiative will accelerate the development of these technologies on the market and contribute to energy saving, environmental protection and public health.
the original proposal submitted by the commission in 2005 was rejected by parliament as too bureaucratic and not reducing pollution.
i believe that the new proposal will enable local decision-makers to become more aware and to take more firm action to protect the environment.
pollution in large cities can be reduced by promoting public transport and, above all, by clean public transport.
in addition to the promotion of metros, trams, trolleybuses, regional trains or shipping, pollution can also be reduced in large european cities by introducing eco-buses.
the environmental criteria will also become a basis for the adaptation of airport charges.
i also voted for amendment no 542 which provides for an increase of eur 5 million in budget line 0603 04 (financial support for projects of common interest in the trans-european energy network).
despite the fact that the amount is small in comparison with the size of the budgets needed to implement the energy projects, i believe it is important to develop the institutional capacity needed to implement this project.
europe needs to diversify its energy supply sources and in this respect the nabucco project is a strategic project for the european union.
mr president, on 4 and 5 december 2008 the european parliament will discuss a set of proposals to modify directive 2003/87/ec concerning the emissions trading scheme for greenhouse gas emissions for the period 2013-2020. the proposal foresees a huge increase in auctioning as early as 2013. while today 90% of pollution allowances are handed out to industrial installations for free, the new directive states that full auctioning should be the rule from 2013 onwards.
many industrial companies would have to relocate to third countries with less climate protection, which will raise prices and slow down romania’s development project on infrastructure.
in the future, the union will have to respond to the challenges of demographic and climate change.
i hope, commissioner, that the effects of the crisis will not have a major impact on the budgetary projections for 2007 to 2013, so that european funds can produce the desired effects in the union's sustainable development.
commissioner, in view of the food crisis that is coming and the social and economic importance of european agriculture, i believe that we should consider the possibility of eliminating excise duties on fuel used for agricultural work and on energy used to pump water for irrigation.
- i voted for this report because it stresses the importance of increasing the allocation of european research funds to the development of new technologies for capturing greenhouse gases, and in particular co2, but above all to allocate funds for the implementation of pilot projects that will highlight this research, the timeliness and safety of new technologies.
europe cannot yet afford to give up its largest energy resource, fossil coal, with many member states still securing energy independence from the processing of fossil coal.
we need to ensure that future generations generate electricity from fossil fuels in a sustainable and low-polluting way.
the big problems of mankind are behavioral problems and pollution.
road transport is responsible for 72% of total transport emissions, but now is the time to reaffirm the importance, both economically and socially, of the car industry.
the climate change package thus becomes one of the instruments aimed at increasing the demand for greener and safer vehicles.
− clearly, we need community statistics on public health and health and safety at work, as this will support strategies aimed at developing high quality, accessible and sustainable healthcare.
finally, there must be four priorities, which were also mentioned by mr pribetich: the first is space and climate change, since the contribution of space applications is unique in this field; the second is the contribution of space activities to the lisbon strategy; the third is everything that has to do with space and security so that we can have, at european level, monitoring and surveillance of european space infrastructure and space debris.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
we have reached a broad consensus on the strategic, ecological and economic importance of space policy for europe.
the gmes system, which is in the development phase, is the european response to the global ecological crisis.
the galileo programme is one of the priority projects for european research, given its potential to be used for traffic management, monitoring the effects of climate change, emergency response and natural disaster response.
inspections are an important element in ensuring the application and compliance with community environmental legislation.
in this respect, the commission's recommendation to establish minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states was an important step forward when it was adopted in 2001. however, the evaluation of the application of this recommendation has raised several concerns.
the commission's communication thus notes that there are still considerable differences in the way environmental inspections are carried out at local, regional and national level.
only a directive can bring about a substantial and effective improvement in environmental inspections.
energy security and the energy-climate change package must also be on the european council's agenda.
therefore, member states should be supported to make significant investments in modernising facilities in energy-intensive industries, increasing productivity and developing transport infrastructure.
i would like to stress the importance of certain provisions in this plan, namely those relating to the adoption of measures to improve the energy efficiency of existing housing and public buildings.
i particularly welcome the proposal to amend the financial framework to invest eur 5 billion over the next two years in developing broadband infrastructure and interconnecting europe's energy infrastructure.
i welcome the initiative of the european investment bank and national banks to create a 2020 fund for energy, climate change and transport infrastructure development.
state aid may be used to support research and development, innovation, communications and information technology, transport and energy efficiency.
i believe that the progress made in the economic field, in the field of administrative reform and in the field of judicial reform, as well as the current context in the western balkans, justify the republic of macedonia to hope for a date for the opening of accession negotiations in 2009, given that the efforts of the parliament and the government of the republic of macedonia need to be further supported and made more responsible in creating a democratic climate, with a view to ensuring transparent and democratic conditions for the local and presidential elections in march 2009. i also call on the european commission to take into account the progress made by the republic of macedonia in recent years, as well as the responsibilities assumed by the parliament and the government of the republic of macedonia, and to establish an action plan for visa liberalisation for the citizens of the republic of macedonia.
nevertheless, in order to recreate a stable post-conflict environment, it is imperative to promote the development of an equal society that protects the position of women while avoiding the re-establishment of the ‘patriarchal’ institutions that have characterised much of the past.
mr president, the eu has the potential to be a global leader in the fight against climate change and that is what our citizens are expecting from us.
therefore it is crucial to reach a first-reading agreement on the climate change package, not only to meet those expectations but to go to copenhagen with a unified position.
the european union has committed itself to finalising the 'climate change' dossier by january 2009. the outcome of the negotiations will be of particular importance at the united nations conference in poznań, where the union's commitment to reducing its carbon emissions and helping poorer nations will be assessed.
a more ambitious long-term objective will ensure the credibility of the european union as the main actor in the fight against global warming and lead to favourable outcomes in the forthcoming copenhagen negotiations.
the european commission adopted the package of legislative proposals on climate change and renewable energy on 23 january 2008. the package allocates to member states, by criteria and targets, the eu's targets agreed at the 2007 spring european council, namely to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by at least 20% by 2020 at eu level and to increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption by 20% and to increase energy efficiency by 20% by the same time.
meeting these commitments - to reduce ghg emissions and increase the share of renewable resources - therefore involves major structural reforms in all economic sectors.
the completion of the negotiations on the 'climate change' package represents an opportunity to balance tackling climate change, strengthening supplier security and promoting competitiveness, growth and job creation.
we are pleased that the negotiations between the european parliament and the council on the 'climate change - renewable energy' package are now moving towards consensus.
the ecosystem approach to this activity is particularly important, ensuring that exploitation is responsible for all species, many of which are endangered.
moreover, it aims to develop it into an activity that is environmentally, economically and socially sustainable.
− in the current difficult economic environment, small and medium-sized enterprises could, in many cases, be the first and most affected.
− i voted in favour of this resolution on measures to improve the environment for smes in europe because they are of fundamental importance for the economy of the european union and thus for romania.
mr president, the outcome of the council meeting in brussels last week and the conclusions of the un climate change conference in poznań have been positively welcomed by many meps in the european parliament.
for ordinary citizens, it is difficult to understand what it means to buy or sell pollution allowances for co2 or what the risks of carbon leakage are.
however, what they have to understand is that europe has become the champion in dealing with climate change and will continue to be so for the future.
in this way, industries such as cement, chemicals and glass will not have to delocalise their factories, jobs and co2 emissions to other parts of the world.
the commission proposed a 60% reduction in particulate matter emissions and an 80% reduction in nitrogen oxides for compression-ignition engines.
the commission proposal also covers spark-ignition engines and introduces requirements for the introduction of a common methodology for testing and measuring emissions and for globally harmonised on-board diagnostic systems.
these are important for the control of emissions during the use of vehicles.
the early setting of limit values for nitrogen oxides emissions gives vehicle manufacturers the confidence to plan for the long term at european level.
in particular, in the context of climate change and the economic crisis, the granting of these incentives will stimulate the production of more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles.
the reduction of disproportionate administrative burden will be of particular benefit to smes carrying out projects in the fields of environment, social inclusion, research, innovation or energy.
this, combined with the fact that the mouths of rivers flowing into the sea should also be considered, will require the national integrated tourism plan for this area to have as its objectives both sustainable tourism and a better quality of life at the local level.
the romanian national authorities, as well as regional and local authorities, will give priority to the use of structural funds to develop sustainable tourism in the black sea coastal area, cooperation and synergy at the regional level being absolutely necessary, through cooperation including the instruments of european policies.
an integrated approach is needed in the community's cohesion, transport, energy, social and health, agricultural, maritime and fisheries policies, but especially in the environment, in order to create synergy and avoid contradictory interventions.
i believe it is important for the member states to develop specific strategies and take concrete action to develop tourism in coastal areas, taking into account the specific nature of the environment and its protection.
the european union needs economic governance that balances sustainable growth with social solidarity and cohesion, and if a multi-speed europe, even if undesirable, proves inevitable, this europe must be structured according to the difference in political will and not according to the level of economic development.
the approach to internal issues, relating to the dynamics of european integration, the union's sustainable economic and social development and an external policy based on the cornerstone of the european union - the promotion of peace - is decisive for the future of europe and at the same time in line with the fundamental principles of european integration.
its lines of action were very ambitious, allowing important decisions to be taken at eu level: the adoption of the european pact on immigration and asylum, the agreement on the energy/climate change package, the union for the mediterranean, a new agreement on the common agricultural policy.
last but not least, it has succeeded in getting the member states to agree to a number of major community projects, such as those on environmental protection and immigration.
i congratulate the french presidency on the work it has done to reach an acceptable compromise on the energy-climate change package.
its adoption gives the european union a leading position in the fight against climate change by example and commitment.
the european union will have the arguments in copenhagen to negotiate with the rest of the world so that, at global level, we can contribute, through a joint effort, to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
although not enough, progress has also been made in sustainable transport, the single european sky and road safety.
i would have liked to see progress during the french presidency on the road package, the energy package and the telecoms package.
the wide-ranging debates in parliament and the council on the impact of rising energy and food prices have also shown european citizens that the social agenda is a priority for the european union.
the promotion of energy from renewable sources requires a strong commitment by member states to modernise energy infrastructure, to functionally separate and interconnect european energy networks so that renewable energy producers can have access to the energy transmission and distribution network.
the european economic recovery plan provides for significant amounts for energy efficiency, energy from renewable sources, interconnection of energy networks and energy efficiency improvements.
so, promoting renewable energy can create new jobs and economic growth.
substantial investment is needed to gradually reduce dependence on fossil fuels and to modernise and make existing energy production facilities more efficient.
the european council recently discussed the energy-climate change legislative package.
there are voices that blame energy crops for the food crisis and the rising food prices.
we can't ignore the benefits of using biofuels, like reducing our dependence on fossil fuels, reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in countries with high agricultural potential, such as romania, bulgaria or poland, the use of biofuels is a viable socioeconomic alternative for rural development and environmental protection by exploiting the potential of energy efficiency and renewable energies.
the renewable energy directive creates economic opportunities for the development of new industries and approximately 2 million jobs to be created by 2020. this is very important in the current financial and economic crisis.
the proposal for a directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources sets legally binding targets for the overall share of renewable energy for each member state.
the share of renewable energy in total final energy consumption is expected to increase from 17,8% in 2005 to 24% in 2020.
11% of gross domestic energy consumption will be provided by renewable sources in 2010. in the coming period, the national target set for the use of renewable energy sources in electricity production will be met if measures are taken to: -stimulate investment in energy efficiency improvements throughout the entire supply chain, production, transport, distribution, consumption; -promoting the use of liquid biofuels, biogas and geothermal energy; -support for research and development and dissemination of the results of applicable research.
it is important to reduce emissions, but to ensure economic growth and job preservation.
compared to the 8% reduction set by the kyoto protocol, romania has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 43% between 1990 and 2005, unfortunately due to the restructuring processes of heavy industry companies and despite the dependence on fossil fuels.
– last week, the council and the ep negotiators reached a historic agreement on the climate change package.
at a time when urgent and consistent action is needed to tackle climate change, europe opted for a slow transition to a low carbon economy by means of derogations and free carbon allowances.
despite these drawbacks, the compromise is an important breakthrough that will set the foundations of a more sustainable economy.
furthermore, fighting climate change effectively can only happen if everyone is on board and this compromise gives the eu more bargaining power to bring the international partners on board.
the outcome of the climate package negotiations between the three institutions represents a balanced compromise that will help the european union make a significant contribution to measures to combat global warming, the first bloc of states to make this commitment through legally binding commitments.
we are now in a global financial crisis which has caused concern in most member states about the target of reducing carbon emissions, but the outcome of the summit is a balanced agreement between the need to protect the climate and the need to overcome this economic impasse.
i am pleased that countries that reduced their emissions between 1990 and 2005, including romania, have been recognised for their efforts by changing the distribution grid for auction revenues without changing the overall structure of the package.
i also believe that most of the elements of the ets directive that have created significant problems for member states have been addressed correctly and that the end result has been a fair one that will launch the european union into a real mission to combat climate change.
mr president, i welcome the agreement reached last week on the climate change package and congratulate our rapporteurs and the french presidency for their efficiency.
as for geological storage of carbon dioxide, we're talking about early-stage testing of this new technology.
parliament insisted on reducing the risk to the environment and human health posed by the use of this new technology, creating a rigorous legal framework for testing and promoting projects for the geological storage of carbon dioxide, and ensuring the financing of demonstration projects.
i think the safety of these deposits is extremely important, but just as important is the safety of the carbon dioxide transport to these deposits.
the competent authorities in each member state shall implement emergency evacuation plans in the event of a carbon dioxide leak.
from 2012, carbon dioxide emissions from cars should be limited to 130 g/km.
the energy package must send a strong signal to investors, especially in the energy sector.
unfortunately, the climate change package is not complete without the completion of the energy package.
and i say this because the european union needs investment in energy infrastructure, as confirmed by the european economic recovery plan.
we need to invest in the interconnection of the european union's energy infrastructure.
we want to promote renewable energy, but to do that, we need renewable energy producers to have access to the grid so that the electricity they produce can reach the end consumer.
− the proposal for a directive is one of the most important elements of the climate change package, which sets a binding target of 20% for the share of renewable energy in eu energy consumption by 2020. the directive provides for the acquisition of new technologies, the creation of new jobs and the reduction of dependence on oil.
the european parliament has played an important role in setting sustainability criteria for biofuels and social criteria which, in the context of the economic crisis, are very important for the citizens of the european union.
climate change and energy insecurity are forcing us to promote new ways of creating energy without jeopardizing the availability of food.
the european union will once again show that it is a leader in promoting wind, solar, hydro and other alternative energy sources.
this decision was taken as a precautionary measure to take into account the possibility of a future increase in the carbon price, but i am pleased to know that the 30% target will remain a priority to avoid an increase in average temperature of more than 2oc, as agreed at the march 2007 european council.
an international agreement means a global effort to combat and adapt to climate change, and financial support to developing countries will provide an incentive for them to engage in efforts to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions.
to remain credible in its aid to developing countries, the european union must ensure that the funding of cdm projects will support sustainable development in these countries and that part of the revenues from the auctioning of emission credits is used to support them.
− promoting carbon capture and geological storage technologies will help to diversify energy efficiency and combat climate change.
to reduce co2 emissions by 50% by 2050, the use of renewable energy is not sufficient to achieve this without also taking into account ccs projects.
for this reason, these demonstration projects are not mandatory as they depend heavily on the carbon price and technology.
however, the eu has taken an important step towards finding alternative solutions to help reduce greenhouse gases, and the implementation of these projects in the future will stimulate other countries outside the eu to use these technologies.
− emissions from cars and their negative impact on the environment must not be neglected in the european union's efforts to combat the effects of climate change.
the car industry has now committed itself to reducing its carbon dioxide emissions to 140g/km by 2008 under an agreement signed voluntarily in 1998. given the optional nature of this target, efforts to reduce emissions have been quite small, with a reduction from 186g/km in 1995 to only 163g/km in 2004. the new regulation introduces a mandatory co2 reduction scheme, a system of penalties for those who do not meet this target and incentives for the creation of innovative technologies.
by 2014, 80% of the fleet will be compliant, and the penalty rate for every gram exceeded will be €95 after 2019. the final compromise ensures a balance between consumer needs, environmental protection and a sustainable industrial policy.
the road transport sector is responsible for around 70% of the greenhouse gas emissions produced by the transport sector.
especially in urban areas, traffic congestion leads to air pollution in large urban agglomerations.
climate change will lead to both a change in consumer preferences and a revival in demand for cars.
i therefore believe that member states which still impose labour market restrictions should first take account of the reality of the positive impact that the free movement of workers has on sustainable economic growth.
- mrs ţicău, you asked about investments in energy infrastructure.
the second strategic review of the energy sector adopted by the commission points to the need for the european union to urgently increase its investments in energy infrastructure to further the objectives of our energy policy, such as security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness.
the council of energy ministers, meeting last week, also stressed the importance of increasing investment in infrastructure, and i am not going to refer to the agreement on energy and climate change, endorsed last weekend by the european council and which you yourselves voted on today in this house.
the commission insists - and i believe we have the support of the council and parliament as well - that the current economic downturn should not be a reason for delaying or reducing investment in energy infrastructure.
investments in energy and in particular in energy infrastructure should act as a driver for job creation, as a driver for innovation, should enable the development of new activities, the use of new technologies and the promotion of economic confidence.
and also, of course, they should have benefits in the sense that our economy will move forward with those investments more quickly to adapt to a low-carbon economy.
in the economic recovery plan, approved by the commission and supported by the council, we propose that an additional eur 4 billion from unused resources in the community budget be mobilised by 2010 for transeuropean energy interconnections and related investments; eur 4 billion of the eur 5 billion we have proposed in our communication, in our plan, to be used is directed to these destinations.
in addition, the european investment bank has committed significant increases - up to €6 billion per year - to finance investments related to climate change, security, energy supply and energy infrastructure, and at the same time announced its commitment to accelerate the use of the existing credit guarantee facility to help finance trans-european network projects in order to encourage the much-needed increased involvement of the private sector.
finally, an important element, i hope, which was also supported by the european council and was included in our proposals: the decision to launch the european 2020 fund for energy, climate change and infrastructure, in order to finance, between the european investment bank, the national infrastructure financing agencies and other possible actors, capital and quasi-capital projects in the area of infrastructure in general and in particular also in the area of energy infrastructure.
i would like to mention that it is extremely important to make investments in the energy grid.
if we want to promote renewable energy or energy from renewable sources, we need to have producers of this type of energy have access to the energy grid to reach the end consumer.
sustainable networks at european level between national and regional actors in the field of education and vocational training need to be established on the basis of existing structures.
the implementation of ecvet must be based on a common commitment to the principles of quality assurance in vocational education and training, and the encouragement of partnerships between educational institutions, enterprises and national authorities must be a key aspect in order to develop an environment of mutual trust.
− the commission's drive to stimulate the simplification and harmonisation of eu company law with the aim of reducing the administrative burden by 25% by 2012 is a prerequisite for making european companies more efficient and making the community business environment more attractive, generating savings estimated at eur 150 billion.