the european parliament made this clear in mr davies' report and also in this report, when the committee presented its view by a large majority that car companies could reach a co2 level of 125 g/km by 2015. if we really want to reduce emissions in the whole automotive sector, we need to look at these things in a more comprehensive way.
first of all, let me thank mrs doris pack for the energy she has put into the preparation of this report, and at the same time i would like to thank the representatives of the european commission for the initiatives which have led to an improvement in the situation.
four priority areas with an emphasis on the implementation of the new lisbon cycle for growth and jobs, energy, climate change and relations with the western balkans can contribute to european cohesion.
slovenia has a chance to become the architect of the eu's global leadership in the fight against global warming.
the report presented sets out clearly the objectives: the establishment of a market economy, the promotion of economic development and the creation of energy security, in addition to the creation of democracy, the rule of law, prosperity and security.
the black sea region, as a production and transit area, is of strategic importance for the diversification and security of energy supplies to the european union.
the investment environment for local and international companies in the region needs to be improved by stepping up the fight against corruption and fraud and promoting market economy reforms.
the bali conference last december provides the basis for an international agreement to tackle climate change.
we have to admit some responsibility for the state of climate change that we have.
but without the united states taking this problem seriously, i fear our efforts are a waste of time.
to cut emissions by 25 to 40 percent by 2020 compared to 1990, or even 50 percent reduction by 2050, seems to me like you're just giving reduction numbers without really knowing how much reduction is possible.
as an alternate member of the committee on climate change, i would like to highlight the significant achievements that the european parliament managed to achieve at the world conference in bali.
the european parliament must become a visionary for sustainable development.
the imposition of ever stricter environmental conditions is not the right solution, because we could put our european smes at a disadvantage.
we must not be immune to new ideas, such as water strategies to heal the climate.
it allows regions to work together flexibly and has a positive impact on the people, the economy and the business environment of the member states.
ladies and gentlemen, let me say that as the owner of a small hydroelectric power plant, i know what renewable electricity generation is.
unfortunately, i also know a lot about the problems, often man-made, that people have to deal with when they want to produce and distribute energy in this way.
i also own an older family home, which i extensively renovated in 2001 with my own funds to achieve a higher standard of energy efficiency.
i know that the kilowatt of energy saved is as good as the kilowatt produced.
i welcome and voted in favour of the energy efficiency action plan for many of the reasons mentioned.
at the same time, i am deeply sorry that the european commission, as well as many member state governments, are to blame for the neglect and continued underestimation of the strategic importance of energy efficiency measures and the need to make them a political priority.
the ep pointed out, through a report to rapporteur umberto guidoni, that investments in education, science, research, culture and information technology already represent future sustainable development.
i am convinced that new concepts and innovations in all areas will create new jobs and find new ways of protecting the environment, ensuring greater food and health security, and safer sustainable energy sources.
in the democratic environment of the restored state, czechoslovakia gradually became unfree.
there has been a lot of discussion about energy efficiency in the past and the current labelling of household appliances that informs consumers about energy performance has not been shown to be a good indicator.
the majority of appliances sold are in category a, thus losing a clear signal about the energy saving of the appliance and the manufacturer's motivation to produce energy-saving appliances.
in order to motivate consumers and producers, the classification of household appliances into new energy classes needs to be adjusted.
the better solution for the balkans would be to intensify the democratisation of relations in serbia with the help of the european union, which would then create a more favourable environment for the consolidation of relations between the serbs and the albanian minority in the common territory.
risk assessment is one of the employer's basic duties when his employees are working in an environment containing agents that endanger their health.
other measures include, for example, the choice of a different working procedure, technical measures to reduce emissions, the modification of workplace and workplace layouts, the limitation of the duration and intensity of exposure, the availability of appropriate personal protective equipment, etc.
the modernisation of the customs code means a complete revision of the original text adopted in 1992 in line with the requirements of the electronic customs and trade environment.
i agree that a healthy and stable macroeconomic environment requires greater budgetary consolidation and smart private and public investment policies.
i do not think that public ownership is one of the main elements leading to disruption in european energy markets.
it is therefore necessary to improve the rules of competition in energy, but also in transport and information systems, to gradually open up the relevant markets and to extend and connect european infrastructure.
rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, requested for an opinion.
the committee on industry, research and energy considers that the new treaty gives considerable scope for the implementation of common policies, while leaving the member states, under the principle of subsidiarity, sufficient powers to pursue their own competition policies and strategies, as is the case, for example, in the field of industry.
a major achievement of the treaty is the agreement on a common energy policy with a focus on improving the functioning of the internal energy market, ensuring security of supply, energy efficiency and savings, the development of renewable sources and better network connectivity.
i welcome the fact that the treaty still leaves the decision on the energy mix to the individual member states.
i am also pleased to note that the treaty also contains a protocol on euratom, which will continue to have its original legal effect, and which will certainly create the conditions for the systematic and safe development of nuclear energy.
to meet the lisbon objectives, we need three players: universities as knowledge creators, business firms that can exploit knowledge, and a public and local authority component that can create a sustainable infrastructure for science, research and development at national and regional level.
ladies and gentlemen, the thoughtful and responsible development of urban areas is proving to be of paramount importance, especially in the face of challenges such as congestion of urban transport networks, environmental damage and land reclamation.
cities have a special responsibility for climate protection, which should be a priority at all policy levels.
cities could help to address poor traffic conditions and reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, for example, by linking different modes of transport and building cyclist and pedestrian infrastructure.
i would also suggest that cities give priority to energy-efficient buildings and that instead of building new areas, they use existing buildings for new purposes.
the strong concentration of economic activities in capital cities upsets the demographic, economic, social and environmental balance and causes a decline in the population in rural areas, which often lack the basic infrastructure needed for development.
− cohesion policy helps to tackle problems such as demographic change, rural-urban migration, segregation, climate change and many others.
in conclusion, let me express my admiration, my admiration, for commissioner figeel's energy and determination in carrying out this project.
we cannot therefore accept the situation as it is now, whereby we change the support for energy crops from year to year by chaotic measures, abolish the 'set aside', change the production quotas and so on.
women play a key role in the socio-political, economic and environmental development of rural areas.
i therefore call for the promotion of sustainable, integrated growth and the creation of new employment opportunities, especially for women, as well as the provision of high-quality health, social and universal services in every corner of the european union.
the european union is energy dependent on non-eu countries and not only that, europe is approaching an energy crisis.
it is therefore imperative that we intervene and promote the use of renewable energy sources.
biogas contributes to sustainable economic and agricultural development, rural development and environmental protection, while at the same time, when produced from manure, sludge, municipal and animal organic waste, it opens up new income prospects for farmers.
however, particular attention should also be paid to safety measures, as some active ingredients and bacteria in agricultural and municipal waste could pose a risk to public health and the environment if they were to spread.
i would also like to express my strong protest against the use of maize, grain and other primary food crops for energy production.
the report on statistics on plant protection products is very much in line with the report for which i was also rapporteur, namely the thematic strategy on sustainable development of pesticides.
as the debate showed, i too believe that we can strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy and create new jobs by improving the business environment.
given that slovenia is also part of the balkans, what does the presidency see as a sustainable solution to guarantee peace and stability in the region?
in a future report, women's health should not be limited to reproductive health, as all women have the right to an environment that allows them to remain healthy.
on the one hand, the european union must seek to intensify cooperation with russia, particularly on political, security, economic and, above all, energy cooperation.
in lebanon, there is a climate that is virtually controlled by syria, politically and powerfully, and particularly in southern lebanon, where hezbollah is actually threatening its neighbors on a daily basis, especially by firing rockets into northern israel.
the danger of such a procedure and decision lies in particular in the fact that it substantially and perhaps deliberately undermines the position of a minority in a given environment and reduces the existing standard of minority rights.
i would like to point out that the ministry of economy of the slovak republic has issued a negative opinion on the matter, which does not relate to the construction of the power plant within the framework of the energy security strategy of the slovak republic until 2030. i want to support the efforts of the citizens of trebišov who are also bravely opposing the construction of the said power plant.
i would also like to stress that the trebišov citizens' initiative was supported by the former prime minister of the slovak republic, mikuláš dzurinda, and other politicians who are concerned about the negative impact of the power plant on the environment, the quality of life in trebišov, and also the negative impact on the unique tokaj region, which is a wine-growing area bordering ukraine and hungary.
i have great hopes for this new cooperation and i personally have been convinced by its performance in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of its qualities and its willingness to tackle certain problems, such as those i raised on the issue of smoking.
i consider it very important that the mid-term evaluation of the 6th community environment action programme has revealed an important fact that the implementation of the action programme is significantly behind schedule.
i therefore stress the need to continue efforts to close the gaps in environmental legislation through new legislative proposals.
it is also very important to ensure the effective enforcement of environmental legislation.
climate change, biodiversity, health and resource use will remain our most pressing challenges in the future.
on the other hand, it is undoubtedly necessary to look for savings wherever possible, but on the condition that the budget is sustainable.
the draft resolution prepared by our interim committee on climate change on the basis of the oral question is consistent, but in my view it pays little attention to water, which can mitigate the micro and macro-climatic problems caused by draining the land and thus contribute to climate healing.
draining the land means reducing evaporation, converting sunlight into detectable heat and changing the enormous flows of energy in it.
i am grateful to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for asking the commission a question which has triggered this important debate.
ladies and gentlemen, i join those who congratulate dr adamos adama on the preparation of this report, which was voted unanimously in the committee on the environment, with no member voting against.
i see volunteering as a form of renewable energy and therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to declare 2011 the european year of voluntary service.
like the demographic crisis, human trafficking, global warming, cancer, and terrorism, the problem of rising food prices did not arise spontaneously and overnight.
they disregarded the ecological balance, and today we see the consequences of their behavior on the poorest of the population.
despite the fact that china faces large social and economic inequalities and alarming environmental degradation, with political rights and fundamental freedoms still severely restricted, it has significant experience that can help african countries.
the summit will focus on the priorities to which it will give increased attention, namely: the fight against poverty, inequality and discrimination, sustainable development, climate change, the environment and energy.
as vice-president of eurolat, i would like to make a statement on the environment, and specifically on water.
the slovak government has taken a conscientious and responsible approach not only to meeting the mandatory criteria but also to ensuring the smooth running of the overall euro changeover process on 1 january 2009, including ensuring the sustainability of the criteria.
the report stresses the importance of interregional trade agreements, which can usually supplement the multicultural system – provided they are wide-ranging and ambitious, going well beyond tariff reductions – and implement social and environmental standards.
in conclusion, let me also thank the rapporteur for his positive collaboration, reflected in some compromise amendments which put the report’s main emphasis on trade and trade related issues, alongside topics of human rights and sustainable development.
but we also need to take into account and set efficiently the parameters of real estate policy, including expenditure on maintenance and environmental protection.
i reject the approach when some colleagues start to make the rubbery and vague counter-argument about the sustainability of these criteria.
the amalgam waste, which contains 50% mercury, is generated during the processing of dental amalgam, its application, the drilling of original fillings, the cremation of the deceased.
dental mercury is also released into the air by the incineration of municipal waste.
all this places dental practices in second or third place in the production of mercury waste in the european union.
climate change seriously affects not only ecosystems but also the economy, public health, food and water security and migration.
state-of-the-art scientific studies show that the global warming trend is also man-made, and therefore it is up to societies to prepare effective policy measures.
i welcome the interim report of the climate change committee and its recommendations for the future integrated climate change policy of the eu, and strongly support the view that the global average temperature increase should not exceed 2 °c.
in addition, the european union should make efforts to reduce emissions so that temperatures remain well below this two-degree limit.
the dissemination of scientific evidence to the public should be an important tool in the effort to mitigate climate change and thus contribute to raising awareness of the issue.
i voted in favour of the draft interim report by rapporteur karl-heinz florenz, in which scientific knowledge on climate change plays an important role.
part of the global climate change caused by human activity is largely driven by land drainage.
therefore, the retention of rainwater in the territory and the drainage of only natural surplus water in the territory is a prerequisite for ensuring environmental security, global stability and, last but not least, for sustaining economic growth.
as regards the economic dimension, the need to ensure the energy security of the european union should be emphasised in particular.
we have a polluted environment that has a negative impact on human health.
sustainability analyses of some public expenditure and insurance systems show that in some member states these systems are financially or even socially risky, which can have a dramatic impact on the spread of poverty.
rising raw material, energy and food prices are adding to the risk for the most vulnerable.
maintaining a strong and attractive european countryside is crucial from an economic, but also from a cultural and ecological point of view.
some econ colleagues have expressed concern about the long-term sustainability of these criteria, particularly inflation.
energy and food price developments are and will remain a global problem.
all these facts suggest that even the new criterion of sustainable inflation will not be an insurmountable problem for slovakia in the future.
this will contribute significantly to the sustainability of inflation in slovakia.
in view of the increased inflation in slovenia following the introduction of the euro, the sustainability of inflation and the public finance deficit in slovakia is a matter of concern.
i believe that a good competitive business environment gives consumers better choice and that is the best antidote to price increases.
firstly, it is common knowledge that slovakia has clearly met the maastricht macroeconomic criteria, which indicate its formal readiness to adopt the euro, and will also ensure their sustainability.
the consumer society has resulted in a huge amount of waste that plagues people's lives, especially in large european cities.
although recycling and secondary use of waste materials have increased in recent years, the amount of waste in landfills in the eu is still too high.
although the compromise package agreed is not ideal, i consider the text of the directive to be a politically ambitious tool in the field of waste management for future generations of the eu, which is why i supported the report by rapporteur caroline jackson.
on the basis of this directive, member states will have to improve their waste management.
i appreciate that the directive also includes issues relating to the disposal of hazardous waste and hazardous oils.
i trust that, according to the agreed text, member states will meet all the ambitious targets, in particular by introducing by 2015 separate collection systems for paper, metal, plastic, glass, textiles, other biodegradable waste, oils and hazardous waste.
− the energy situation in europe, as elsewhere in the world, is forcing us to look for new effective solutions to ensure security of supply in individual member states at reasonable prices, provided that the energy market is further liberalised through greater market transparency and non-discriminatory action by all economic operators concerned.
i appreciate the european commission's efforts to make progress, to create a space for clear rules and relationships between the relevant actors within the energy market, which should create a better competitive environment on the one hand and on the other hand to obtain an effective regulatory mechanism that would prevent a crisis situation through its interventions.
the energy package presented, despite much discussion and compromise proposals, still raises many questions and uncertainties.
before drawing definitive conclusions, we should ascertain whether each model under consideration is functional, ensures a continuous supply of energy, is transparent and non-discriminatory, and whether its transparency and non-discriminatory approach can be achieved by more effective regulation or not.
i welcome the fact that the debate on the third energy package is not missing mrs de vits' report on the draft consumer charter.
energy consumers' rights are currently enshrined in various eu documents and are often not transposed into national legislation.
consumer organisations are very active in addressing energy consumers, especially vulnerable groups of consumers.
the eu's strategic partnership with russia is an important factor in ensuring the diversity and security of energy imports into the eu.
in my view, european leaders need to tell russia that it should not use energy supplies as a tool of political pressure not only against eu member states but also against the states of the former soviet union, especially ukraine.
during my visit to the state duma of the russian federation in april 2007, i became convinced that russia too has an eminent interest in negotiating energy with the eu as a whole.
in conclusion, i would like to share my colleague elmar brok's concern that the eu's position as a strategic partner may be weakened following the failure of the irish referendum on the lisbon treaty, given that the eu's competences in the field of common energy policy are enshrined in the lisbon treaty itself.
the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment.
all citizens have the right to safe and sustainable mobility.
by accepting this approach, parliament creates a softer and less demanding environment for member state governments.
nord stream is one of the projects designed to meet the eu's energy needs.
the environmental risks involved require the preparation of technical feasibility studies involving the eight countries concerned, without which no planning should be undertaken.
the bilateral project has a broader european energy security dimension which the union cannot ignore.
in line with the 2006 joint resolution on the common energy policy, the participation of the commission in the project is essential to ensure the implementation of the energy solidarity dimension within the union.
the plan, which involves an environmental risk for one third of the eu member states, also has a more reasonable land-based version... (the president interrupts the speaker).
− emissions from aviation have doubled since 1990 and are continuing to rise.
if the eu is serious about tackling climate change, it must become the most important global player in this field.
i regard the directive which aims to integrate aviation activities into the system of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community as a positive step.
the compromise proposed by rapporteur peter liese is a balanced and realistic solution between protecting the environment on the one hand and ensuring the competitiveness of the european aviation industry on the other.
i believe that the area of research and development has a great untapped potential for new, safer and greener modes of transport and sustainable transport systems.
it is clear that much will need to be done and much work will need to be done for sustainability and adaptation to new challenges, including further coordination.
it brings zero emissions of carbon compounds and greenhouse gases.
in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market while providing a high level of safety for the general public and environmental protection, it is necessary to lay down rules on the design of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles at european level.
in addition, we assess the achievement of ambitious targets in the very diverse environments of the 27 member states, with different health systems, but also with different environmental diversity.
in many cases, the impact of the environment on the health of the population is clearly established.
equally important, and i stress this most in the report, is the awareness of the public, both of the environmental impacts on health and the emergence of serious diseases, and of the possibility for various ngos to help this work.
its high pollution can lead to asthma, allergies, and even cancer.
sustainable, modernised and multifunctional agriculture needs to be developed in mountain regions.
the conservation of certain plant and animal species, the protection of traditions, and especially tourism, will help to combat climate change by protecting biodiversity and capturing co2 through permanent grasslands and forest cover.
sustainable forest management will make it possible to generate energy from wood waste.
it is necessary for the commission to encourage local and regional authorities to develop a comprehensive solidarity between upstream and downstream areas and to promote, through appropriate financial means, the sustainable use of water resources in these regions.
these regions are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change and it is therefore necessary to promote the immediate implementation of measures to protect against natural disasters in these regions, in particular forest fires.
− the demands on the teaching profession are currently increasing in connection with the development of information and communication technologies, as the learning environment is becoming increasingly complex and diverse.
sustainable, modernised and multifunctional agriculture is needed in mountain regions.
sustainable forest management will make it possible to generate energy from wood waste.
the conservation of certain plant and animal species, the protection of traditions, ecological activities and tourism contribute to combating climate change through the protection of biodiversity and the capture of co2 by permanent grassland and forest cover.
europe has a significant opportunity to influence energy prices by producing enough of its own energy on a non-oil and gas basis.
instead of producing peak energy, the result was an international arbitration dispute, the conclusions of which the hungarian side does not comply with.
the safety standards have been confirmed by the international atomic energy agency.
the example of slovakia shows that the intention to increase its own production and thus control energy prices in europe is still very far away.
the prospects for the use of nuclear energy in slovakia, the activities requiring the completion of units 3 and 4 in mochovce, and the commitment of the slovak republic to decommission the units in jaslovské bohunice in 2006 and 2008 represent serious challenges for slovakia.
madam president, today is about finding ways to use alternative energy sources.
i was intrigued by the use of geothermal energy.
what is the commission's position on the use of geothermal energy sources for energy production?
in conclusion, the prevention of obesity involves at least one healthy meal in a calm family environment, where healthy habits are primarily cultivated.
i support effective control of energy prices.
moreover, we are witnessing an absolutely unacceptable situation where energy prices are also dictated by food prices.
the world bank experts believe that biomass energy accounts for up to 80% of the surge in food prices.
in this context, i have repeatedly stressed the need to increase food stocks and regulate the use of food resources for energy purposes.
i am convinced that bilateral cooperation in the fight against climate change, the search for common practices in the field of science, research and innovation will be beneficial for both parties.
i welcome the report by mr jørgensen, which aims to promote clean, energy-efficient and fuel-efficient vehicles on european roads.
i am convinced that by introducing common rules at european level we will achieve a more positive impact on the environment.
i therefore support the proposal that public procurement should include not only the purchase price but also the cost of consumption, co2 emissions and information on air pollution over the life of the vehicle.
i believe that clear ecological criteria can play an important role in promoting the market for clean vehicles.
intensive and open dialogue between local government, environmental organisations and citizens will certainly help to strengthen the environmental dimension in the purchase of new vehicles.
the european parliament has always been concerned about consumer rights in the field of tourism and therefore, in its resolutions on new perspectives and new challenges for sustainable european tourism, it accepted the need to revise directive 94/47/ec.
the consumer will have time to consider his decision in an environment where no one can put pressure on him.
another reservation is the use of energy performance studies of buildings.
the latest study on the european parliament's carbon footprint says it's equivalent to nearly 114,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide a year.
a series of measures to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020 needs to be addressed.
the main sources of pollution are heating and electricity in the buildings themselves and in the transport of people between home and work, as well as between the three main workplaces.
before the end of the year, i expect the secretary-general of the european parliament to present an action plan, following the analyses, so that we can take action as soon as possible to save money and clean up the environment.
in addition to these measures in relation to the rise in energy prices, it comes with a series of populist statements and threats, with the aim of expropriating some private companies in the energy sector and proposing tough, time-limited and comprehensive regulatory measures against private entities in the so-called general economic interest.
these measures will, under the pretext of addressing the financial crisis and economic recession, prevent further necessary liberalisation, distort the market environment and discourage potential investors.
my contribution is to point out some of the non-systemic regulatory interventions of some member state governments in the market environment under the pretext of addressing this new situation.
the sustainability of inflation and the public finance deficit will be closely monitored in slovakia, therefore the current slovak government must continue the reforms of the previous government of mikuláš dzurinda.
it should not resort to pension reform in an attempt to raise private savers' funds to improve the short-term public deficit, it will not adopt laws against market rules and it will contribute to improving the business environment.
we know, for example, that up to two-thirds of cancer cases are linked to people over the age of 60. the sustainability of the social system will require an increase, but also an improvement and adaptation of working conditions for older people.
the plan underestimated the coordinated development of the energy infrastructure as a whole and not only of green energy, the coordinated development of the road and rail infrastructure as conditions for the efficient deployment of investment, but also the necessity to address the financing of the agro-sector.
the world is facing a financial crisis followed by an energy crisis and a food crisis.
the eur 30 billion, to be shared equally between the european union budget and the european investment bank, must be well targeted to develop a knowledge-based economy, a low-carbon economy and energy efficiency programmes with a medium- and long-term perspective.
i am personally in favour of the idea of reducing vat rates on certain products which are closely linked to energy efficiency and can stimulate substantial energy savings.
in addition to specific conditions in some countries (china, india), these include global climate fluctuations, a shift from growing food crops to growing biofuels, and the absolute low world cereal stocks.
today's long tax filing deadlines also create a climate for such tax evasion.
initiatives aimed at sustainable development, job growth and support for small and medium-sized enterprises will be of particular importance, but also the promotion of cohesion between regions, which is a key factor in stimulating economic growth in europe.
the need to introduce european citizenship programmes, foreign language teaching programmes, consumer and environmental protection programmes and the fight against climate change into the curriculum is urgent.