in october 2003, croatia declared an ecological and fishing zone in the adriatic.
nevertheless, the croatian parliament decided last year unilaterally that the ecological fishing zone will also apply to the member states, no later than 1 january this year.
the council's decision to extend the ecological fishing zone to the member states from 1 january this year is contrary to croatia's internationally accepted commitment and raises doubts about its credibility.
if the answer is yes, it must act immediately and start to comply with the agreement on the ecological fisheries zone as well as all other agreements already concluded.
slovenia is one of the most successful members of the european union in the field of e-government and also in the removal of administrative barriers, and i therefore expect that in each of the areas of the presidency it will offer good practices from the slovenian environment to other member states.
and i would like to take this humble moment to talk about climate change and energy, because europe has set itself very ambitious goals, the development of a low-carbon society, and that's what matters: a low-carbon society.
i believe that the resolution we have drawn up in the committee on climate change reflects the essential conclusions of the bali agreements and also the views of the european parliament.
i am pleased that developing countries have also taken on some of the responsibility for reducing co2 emissions and have committed themselves to achieving sustainable development.
i really hope that we will be able to effectively translate existing and established mechanisms in europe, such as the carbon market, to the international level.
i see successful sustainable development mainly in increasing research capacity.
as an example, global investment in energy research has fallen by 40 percent since 1980. there is no better or more beautiful picture for the european union.
and finally, let me say that when it comes to climate change, the eyes tend to be on politics, but action on climate change is not just a matter of politics.
the report realistically and favourably welcomes the progress that the countries of the region have clearly made in various areas, while at the same time being constructively critical of the political shortcomings, in particular in the areas of human rights, democracy, the rule of law, environmental protection and health.
the report was prepared with an awareness of the diversity of the countries of central asia, but also with the conviction that it is in the mutual interest to deepen cooperation, not only in energy but also in broader political, security and other areas.
the second challenge is climate change.
europe must take its share of responsibility and participate in both climate change adaptation and global warming mitigation.
in particular i would like to express gratitude here to parliament’s rapporteur, mr paasilinna, because he was very instrumental and supportive, and also to the chairwoman of the committee on industry, research and energy, ms niebler, as well as mr böge, the chairman of the committee on budgets, and the rapporteur of the committee on culture and education, ms hennicot-schoepges.
the adapted equipment, accessories and numerous modern electronic systems allow the management of the living environment.
combating climate change and energy are important components of eu development policy.
i welcome any initiative that can contribute to a secure and sustainable energy supply, not only in europe but also in third countries.
the first concern is that the number of energy and development policy initiatives is steadily increasing.
this house, as well as the commission, almost enthusiastically welcomed the news that the croatian parliament had withdrawn its decision to declare an ecological fishing zone.
croatian politics has ambushed and surprised itself by establishing a protected ecological-fisheries zone.
i too am glad that our neighbour croatia has stopped the implementation of the ecological and fisheries area, which was the main obstacle to the continuation of accession negotiations.
but i do not agree with the excessive praise given to croatia for abolishing the ecological-fisheries zone.
it is not just a social task, but a wider range of content that enables the sustainable development of humanity.
but in the face of the global challenge posed by climate change, that's not enough.
with today's economy, the increase in gross domestic product is also accompanied by an increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
we must define prosperity in the context of sustainable development, including in the design of all our development policies.
it is therefore important that the 10th edf also reflects a balance between the economic, social and environmental components.
in the committee on the environment, we expected that the establishment of common standards for environmental penal policy would go beyond this compromise and cover not only community legislation but also the legislation of the member states.
it is also a major step forward in environmental protection, as it provides for the coordinated application of effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions for the serious environmental offences listed in the annex.
and at the climate change committee, we've collected a lot of data from a lot of scientists.
however, most of this data points to changes in ecosystems as a result of anthropogenic emissions and to possible future trends.
these are concerned with sustainable development issues, many of which also involve poverty eradication.
so a comprehensive approach requires a change in our minds, in europe's minds, because up to now we have been concerned only with development or, more importantly, with the development towards a low-carbon society.
the only way to achieve international agreement is to treat emissions reduction measures and climate change adaptation measures as equals.
the first is undoubtedly climate change and sustainable development.
commitments to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions are not limited to the energy and transport sectors.
they also have a significant impact on the industrial sector, without which the development of a low-carbon society is not possible.
sustainable industrial development is therefore an area that requires coordination, consistency and coherence.
our vision is to reduce global warming, so merely moving higher-emission technologies to third countries is not acceptable.
climate change is an opportunity, not a threat, for the european economy.
we still have a lot of work to do to create a more stimulating environment for smes to operate.
it will also succeed if it recognises that the major environmental challenges of our time, especially the energy and climate challenges, can also create economic opportunities that must be exploited.
– madam president, with this text we hope to reverse the trend of producing more waste than we recycle.
it is the result of several years of debates and taking account of the reality of two major groups of member states as regards waste management systems: recycling states and landfilling states.
furthermore, the text includes the necessary dynamics to adapt higher targets as well as targets for new waste streams it is a carefully balanced compromise: achievable and realistic.
with regard to by-products – the article in the body of the directive and the article on end of waste – most critics fear sham recovery.
similarly for end of waste.
when certain waste ceases to be waste, the substance or object resulting from it can be shipped as such outside the community only once the conditions of article 5 are met in the community.
the proposed measures put the consumer at the centre, who will be able to choose between suppliers in a well-functioning internal energy market and choose the best one at his own discretion.
i expect that an open and transparent internal market will also provide market access for smaller companies, thus increasing competitiveness, improving conditions for investment in power plants and transmission networks, increasing security of supply and promoting sustainable development.
there is no doubt about it, but it is not enough to respect it, we must also be aware of the consequences and understand, in ireland and in the european context, why the majority in one of the most successful member states of the european union turned against the treaty signed last year by the heads of state, including ireland, or the governments, with the aim of working together effectively to meet the demanding new challenges, whether it be the environment, energy, migration or health.
– mr president, as regards the regulation on additives, my group welcomed the proposal to modernise and harmonise european legislation and supported the rapporteur mrs westlund in her efforts to secure sustainable protection of consumers and their health, in particular the vulnerable groups of the population.
in the energy sector, we are faced with three main challenges: the environmental challenge, the challenge of ensuring the competitiveness of the european economy and the challenge of a secure and reliable energy supply.
in the energy sector, we are training more independent players through liberalisation.
this is particularly true for smaller member states with relatively weak energy companies.
the additional challenge is to maintain political responsibility for the welfare of the country despite the changes in the energy markets in europe.
in the last four years alone, we have received several mechanisms to promote research and development in the field of energy.
i would remind you of environmental policy, transport policy, agricultural policy, but this also applies to the major areas of foreign policy such as development policy, humanitarian aid or international disaster relief, and of course - and here i am addressing a subject which mr von wogau has successfully kept on the agenda for many years now, for which the commission is very grateful to him - the question of space policy and european security.
preparatory opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
now we must also implement, implement and prepare an environment that will allow the efficient use of new systems and the greatest possible wealth of applications without being too narrowly limited in advance.
mr president, the issue of environmental protection and the increased energy needs linked to climate change are challenges that require a responsible approach from all policy-makers and go beyond national borders and national interests.
too many times we've been too irresponsible with the environment to allow ourselves to do something like this.
the european commission – as mr parish said – has asked efsa to provide an opinion on food safety, animal health, animal welfare and the environmental implications of the use of live animal clones.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
this regulation puts us firmly on the side of a new energy and environmental policy, which will certainly have positive effects on public health.
and this regulation is one of the opening moves, it's part of the answer to the energy and environmental challenges of the modern age, in which hydrogen plays one of the key roles.
in this extremely challenging energy situation, the dynamics of development and, in this context, the question of the rapid development of new technologies is of great importance.
i see the enormous potential of this new technology in that it allows decentralized production of hydrogen and that it is possible, in conjunction with solar technology, to actually greatly diversify this production, to reduce dependence on the energy carriers known so far.
in addition, new challenges are being posed by ageing populations, climate change, rising food prices and globalisation.
in recent years, the cost of medicines has risen faster than the total cost of healthcare, raising concerns among citizens about the equity of healthcare and the sustainability of health systems.
such a measure would be, in effect, a consumer promotion, a direct aid to the automobile industry and contrary to our environmental policies.
i therefore call on the commission to continue to promote the development and production of clean vehicles, as it has done so far, to make the switchover gradual and based on environmental criteria, and to provide citizens with clear information on the compatibility of the recovery plan with our environmental and climate policies.
it is good that we had at that time a very ambitious presidency that was really working to find an agreement on the climate and energy package.
here i think we have to take a few principles into account, namely that we absolutely have to use the funds only to address environmental and climate challenges, that we have to use them for mitigation and adaptation, that we have to use them for developing technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and are not yet commercial, that is, also for ccs pilot projects.
then, we have to use it for actions within the european union and for cooperation with third countries, and when we talk about the scale, then we have to take into account our responsibility for global emissions, which is currently 13 to 14 percent, and we have to add our historical responsibility for emissions.
they encouraged us to maintain our leadership on climate change.
i would like to emphasise two more points: in addition to investing in renewable energy production capacity, we also need to invest in transport networks.