mr president, the car of today is, in some ways, very much the same as that of 100 years ago but, at the same time, it is extremely different regarding security, efficiency and its effect on the environment.
it also underlines the need for europe to have a competitive car industry if we are to contribute to the global agenda and to better standards for the environment in the global economy, because, if we do not, we will not be able to influence that development.
those who call for a policy that would decrease the competitiveness of the european car industry do not contribute to a better environment – it is important to state that.
but the important thing is not to discuss emissions from individual cars – big or small – because we need big cars and we will need small cars: they play a different role in different parts of our union, in our countries.
what we need is an overall development that decreases emissions in all sorts of cars.
that can only be done by a competitive european car industry and that can only be achieved if we have the right policies to balance the environment and competitiveness, and this report makes a good contribution towards that.
our car industry, especially in my own country, is at the forefront of development, research, performance, the environment and safety.
it is about jobs and growth, but it is also about a responsibility for our environment, for the global climate.
the commission is proposing far-reaching legislation aimed at mandatory co2 emission reductions in terms of emissions and improved vehicle technology and the use of biofuels.
our citizens want their cars at a reasonable cost, but our citizens also know that climate change must be tackled, and that it must be done quickly.
the real competitive disadvantage for our industry, however, would be if it had to risk health, the environment and international law to survive.
these now have to be evaluated by the competent authorities from a health and environmental point of view before export.
finally, we have legislation which is acceptable and improves on the commission's proposal, but which could have been even better if public health and the environment had been allowed to prevail over the interests of business, which is the only sustainable economic model.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been very active in this area.
firstly, climate change and the climate and energy package.
in this chamber we have had a lot of debate when it comes to the lisbon strategy and to adding economic development to sustainable social development and environmental issues.
it is very important that sustainable economic development is reflected in the green package when it is delivered next week.
finally, the lisbon strategy has to be a combination of climate and economic development.
look at the transport sector, which is a perfect example of how trains and cars can achieve not only economic development and a better internal market, but also the goals of the energy package.
increasing cooperation in the field of energy is also an important part of this work.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i agree that this can be wisely managed – a win-win situation, where we can create a better environment, better opportunities for our children and more jobs in europe.
but it needs coherence in our management of different political areas – research policy, development aid, the common agricultural policy, energy policy and so on – and the first test of this will be at the spring summit with the lisbon agenda.
will the lisbon agenda at the council in march reflect the energy and climate package?
we also have to address energy poverty – it is not there enough – technology neutrality and the forestry issues, which have to be improved.
first, competitiveness needs sustainability – but sustainability needs competitiveness.
if we are to be a competitive economy in the future, we need to have competitive energy sources, and that also goes for the renewables.
thirdly, this is about renewables, but i would still like to underline the importance of nuclear power, not because i look upon nuclear power as one of the renewables, but it is my belief that, if we are to take full advantage and make full use of renewables, we must not get into a situation where the phasing-out of nuclear power consumes the achievements we can make in the fight against carbon dioxide emissions.
there is a broad consensus in the eu that we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions to stop climate change, but this must not lead to a bureaucratic society without freedom and dynamism.
two basic principles apply: we will set emission targets for each country and then leave it to those countries and to the market to meet the targets under free competition and we will internalise the costs of emissions with sufficiently expensive emission allowances.
so households are choosing to self-power low-energy light bulbs, car manufacturers are making fuel-efficient vehicles, property owners are building passive houses, energy producers are producing low-emission energy.
that's why we're going to say no to tax breaks for demolishing houses and no to public funding for energy conservation.
rachel carson's book our silence became a concept in 1962 and a wake-up call for many to get involved in environmental and nature conservation.
this can then be an important part of the fight against overfishing and sustainable fishing.
the commission and parliament are on the same page, and fishermen and environmental organisations are also on board.
the objectives set can be summarised in the term 20-20-20, which means that emissions should be reduced by 20%, the use of renewable energy sources should be increased by 20%, and this should be done by the year 2020. i believe, however, that the emphasis should be on reducing emissions and that it should then be up to each member state to decide how this is to be done.
the eu should have been able to do without the need to specify how countries should change their use of renewable energy sources.
in view of the above, it is regrettable that nuclear energy is not included in the concept of renewable energy.
the iaea has stated that nuclear power is a necessary component for reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
it is regrettable that this resolution chooses to ignore this by insisting that emissions must not be reduced by nuclear energy.
in implementing this resolution it will become clear that the eu is indirectly condemning the role of nuclear energy in improving the climate situation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'.
we therefore support the main conclusion that all countries must take comprehensive action to reduce these emissions and that eu countries should take the lead.
the eu's role in energy policy should be limited to:- setting emission targets for each country and then leaving it to those countries and to the market to achieve the targets under free competition - with sufficiently expensive emission allowances internalize the costs of emissions.
then households opt for self-powered low-energy light bulbs, car manufacturers make fuel-efficient vehicles, and property owners build passive houses.
we have voted no, in order to support a rethinking of the eu's energy policy.
it is not enough for the eu to set tough rules on co2 emissions.
here we call on eu citizens to do away with everything from water heaters to heated outdoor cafeterias, while the energy consumption of the second seat of the european parliament alone costs 5322 tonnes of co2 emissions per year!
a study commissioned by mep caroline lucas points to the dramatic environmental consequences of parliament's monthly visits to france.
in total, travel to strasbourg, where parliament holds its votes, is estimated to result in 18 901 tonnes of co2 emissions per year.
countries must have the right to protect health and the environment and to have a procurement system that preserves the ability of their local companies not to be completely knocked out of international competition and create mass unemployment.
the political environment in which this subject has been discussed is not easy.
furthermore, the rules negotiations in the doha round, in particular the chairs’ text, have also put the international tdi environment into considerable flux, because of the text’s surprising and, frankly, unacceptable content.
could not ecological and social dumping be equated with direct dumping?
what is the difference between a company being spared a billion euros worth of environmental and social regulations, or receiving a billion euros in state subsidies?
hence the climate issue, where sweden has proved to be a country that can point to development instead of regulation to move society forward.
my first question concerns the environmental assessment of the gas pipeline in the baltic sea, one of the most polluted seas in the world, on which parliament recently held a hearing with several committees.
sweden was the first country to introduce the sme environmental test.
this issue is one of the most important environmental issues for sweden and the eu.
will sweden require an additional option of land drainage to be subject to environmental assessment?
the environment is more important.
having said that, we know that millions of our citizens feel that this journey between brussels and strasbourg is not the best way to save the environment and money.
in order to get a green stocking from me, fredrik, you'll probably have to raise the ambition level on energy saving and on renewable energy.
what seems to be the easiest and fastest way to solve the climate problem?
we are now importing historically large quantities of products that generate emissions in other countries.
we need to take that into account in our climate work.
but protectionism to protect the environment and human rights - that is the duty and responsibility of a politician in a free market.
my third and final comment concerns the climate issue, where the european system is going to have to deal with perhaps the biggest and most difficult issue in the shortest decision time we have had for such a big subject.
you spoke very wisely about the treaty, about enlargement and about the climate.
why don't you prioritize the work environment?
regarding the energy package, we had to deliver totally new legislation.
the first thing to consider, mr turk and mr almunia – and maybe you can pass this message on to mr verheugen – is what will be in the text of the resolution on climate change at the spring summit.
we all agree that climate change can be a win-win situation, where we can solve environmental problems and where we can create new jobs.
first, we have the whole debate on climate policy that is going to change policy for all of us in the eu.
i am optimistic about it because it will also mean new investments and a new type of job that is more sustainable in the long term and based on a high level of knowledge.
this requires a stimulating business climate, to which the lisbon strategy can contribute if it is implemented in a conscious way.
central asia will play an increasing role, not least as has been said here in terms of access to energy not directly or indirectly controlled by russia.
the eu must take its responsibility for our common energy security.
more russian-tailed oil and gas pipelines from central asia is not what i believe is the energy independence that we in the eu should be striving for.
there are important tasks which we must carry out jointly, not least in the field of the environment, human trafficking and social dumping.
issues such as free trade, climate change, the fight against international crime, terrorism and integration.
this applies in particular to the more offensive elements which show that parliament is keeping up with the times, such as environmental issues and the link with growth.
− this own-initiative report addresses several challenges facing the future of europe, such as increased globalisation, an ageing population and climate change.
the junilist is against complicated tax systems, social exclusion and environmental destruction.
that is why i voted with the greens in favour of environmental taxes at eu level, even though i defended the independence of the european central bank against their recurrent attacks.
one of the main issues when we discuss scientific cooperation with africa is how african countries can defend themselves against climate change.
as the un panel on climate change has noted, africa may be the continent most vulnerable to climate change.
lakes and streams are drying up, and climate refugees now number in the millions on the african continent.
many of the conflicts that exist in africa today are the result of the stress and strain that climate change brings.
one of the great ironies of the climate problem is that those who pollute the least are the ones who suffer the most.
ethiopia, for example, emits 0.1 tons of carbon dioxide per capita per year, while my own country, sweden, emits over 6 tons per capita per year.
on the one hand we must drastically reduce our own emissions, and on the other we must do everything we can to help developing countries take action against climate change.
we in the developed world can shift some of our climate responsibility onto the developing world.
the aim, if you take it lightly, is to transfer technology and environmental activities to developing countries.
but according to a new report we received last year from the environment committee, less than 2% of the cdm projects go to african countries.
− we do not agree with the mutual recognition principle as a guarantor for advanced consumer, social or environmental rights.
of this financial contribution, 35%, or eur 2.45 million, is earmarked to support the definition and implementation of a fisheries sector policy in guinea-bissau, with a view to introducing responsible and sustainable fishing.
regarding the proposal to reject the fisheries agreements in general on the grounds that they are not sustainable, it should be recalled that the council, in its july 2004 conclusions, indicated that the aim of the new fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) is to contribute to the sustainable management of fisheries resources.
the commission believes that the fpas can and do provide a political and legal framework that assists the efforts of partner countries in implementing a policy of sustainable and responsible fishing in their waters.
the first reason is the environment.
biodiversity is under serious threat, and the continuation of this insane fisheries policy will have long-term effects on the environment both locally and globally.
where's the sustainability?
if, instead, vessels had to pay their own costs, fishing pressure would be reduced, and both taxpayers and the environment would be the big winners.
the first is the climate issue.
as rapporteur for the budget in the committee on industry, i believe that it is not enough to say that the climate issue is a political priority.
it may be a matter of getting down to business with modern energy and environmental technologies.
the areas defined so far, like climate change and telecom, are areas that have importance for europe and for european competitiveness and how we can have this future for europe that we so much need for the european citizens.
we therefore also do not see eu fisheries agreements as a long-term sustainable way of fighting poverty and supporting development.
we also want to support sustainable development in the countries that currently have fisheries agreements with the eu as a major source of income, through changes in eu trade and aid policies and through various forms of partnership.
we want to stress the importance of the eu finding other, more long-term and sustainable ways of supporting guinea-bissau, as the eu's fisheries agreements currently account for 30% of the country's gdp.
we do not believe that the eu fisheries agreement is a long-term sustainable way of fighting poverty and supporting development.
we therefore want to support sustainable development in the countries that currently have fisheries agreements with the eu as a major source of income, through changes in eu trade and aid policies and through various forms of partnership.
we hope that it will be possible to evaluate these fisheries agreements as soon as possible and replace them with sustainable systems within the framework of the eu sustainable development strategy (sds).
- we believe that the proposal for a common speed limit on eu motorways could have a positive environmental impact in that speed may be reduced in those member states which do not have regulated speed limits on their motorways.
vital and sustainable development requires attention to the situation of women.
without the active participation of women, we will not be able to achieve the objectives of sustainable economic growth.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
biogas can play an important role in the fight against climate change, not only for producing heat and electricity but also for powering vehicles.
biogas can be produced from, for example, manure and household waste.
we in the committee on the environment want to support this possibility and to see much more biogas in the future.
as regards waste, the main priority must still be to reduce the total amount of waste.
if we're going to reduce waste, we have to -- which is like swearing in church -- reduce our consumption.
i would like to take the opportunity to ask a few questions to commissioner mariann fischer boel, who is with us here tonight: does the commission have a strategy to reduce the ever-growing waste mountain in the eu?
we in the environment committee also want to see a certification for sustainable biogas.
social and environmental factors must be the basis for such certification.
i welcome the commission's proposal for a new directive on renewable fuels, but more needs to be done to promote the role of biogas.
this and other environmental issues underline the importance of public accountability.
biogas reduces greenhouse gas emissions from cars by as much as 90 percent.
in addition, particulate emissions are reduced, and cars run more quietly with gas in the tank.
however, if we are serious about our environmental efforts, we cannot take responsibility for the market.
of course, that's not sustainable.
the united nations climate panel says that humans are emitting greenhouse gases on a scale that is changing the world's climate.
the eu has accepted that humanity must therefore reduce these emissions dramatically over the next few decades and has said that the eu should be at the forefront of this global change.
this is something that should concern all who care about their health and our environment.
in my country, the environmental movement has a long-term vision of chemical-free agriculture.
should not environmental and public health considerations take precedence over the need for total harmonization?
we're going to tackle the tough demographic issues of a retirement boom and a shrinking population by 2020, the same year we're going to meet the environmental and climate goals that we've set, the 20-20-20 goals.
we must ensure that we have economically sustainable development in europe.
i am glad that when we deal with questions of the lisbon strategy, we are dealing with a unified approach to sustainable economic development, economic growth, environmental responsibility and socially responsible policies.
i would like to point out the new area included in this year's resolution, namely transport policy, which has a lot to answer for in terms of climate objectives and also growth.
we are in a situation where we can create more jobs in europe through an efficient, sustainable and environmentally friendly transport policy.
it is impossible to express a view on the 20-20-20 climate policy objectives without also having it reflected in the council resolution on the lisbon strategy.
i therefore hope that when we see the outcome of the spring summit we can have a comprehensive policy that can cope with both economic growth and climate policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i support the council regulation on energy statistics but i completely reject the justification provided by the committee on industry, research and energy.
i do not think that the major advantage of collecting the necessary data is to help the eu institutions to draw up a coherent european energy policy, nor that the eu should speak with one voice in the international arena.
now, i thought that the broad understanding that we had to do something radical to meet the climate demands would make it easier to get the really sharp proposals heard.
emissions from transport are increasing significantly.
the so-called 'tank tourism' is bad for the environment and distorts competition.
the commission wants to raise the minimum price to eur 380 per 1 000 litres by 2014. the committee also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of fossil fuels.
at the same time, we know that the necessary environmental requirements will be weighed in future assessments of the use of economic instruments.
if we are to tackle transboundary emissions, we must find reasonable compromises that everyone can live with.
that is absolutely right, but we also need to come up with strong, tough measures for the environment.
- we have chosen to support the report as a whole, as we believe that the eu must tackle unhealthy tax competition in the fuel sector, in particular in order to achieve its climate objectives.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i welcome the decision to temporarily lift the ecological zone in the adriatic sea.
it is a positive signal for the relations between slovenia, italy and croatia, but environmental considerations still have to be given a very high priority when we are dealing with this unique sea area.
first of all, i would like to thank the commission and commissioner stavros dimas for the green paper on adapting to climate change.
it is, after all, just as many speakers have already stated: a very large number of people are affected by the climate change we see coming.
we have so far spoken a lot in economic terms in the european debate, but climate change will change our entire environment.
the world health organization has pointed out that 60,000 people died last year that could be linked to climate change.
it may seem daunting to many people, but these are investments we must make to cope with climate change and technological progress and to compete with other parts of the world.
we cannot decide on transport without tackling climate issues.
you can't talk about public health or education without talking about climate change.
it's a country whose highest point is just over two meters above the current sea level, and the maldives will partly disappear if we don't solve the climate problem.
it is the poorest countries that suffer the most, and i would therefore like to make a call to the commission: the solidarity fund must be strengthened with more funds and our eu assistance must also focus on climate issues.
in this report we call for action to make agriculture take its climate responsibility.
agriculture includes the livestock industry, which accounts for 18 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions.
so what can we do to bring down that 18 percent of emissions?
when the chairman of the ipcc, rajendra pachauri, spoke for us in the climate committee, he called for a reduction in meat consumption.
it's not sustainable.
finally, a few proposals: an information campaign for vegetarian diets, calling on member states to introduce meat taxes so that meat becomes more expensive and therefore cheaper, investing more in the green in our own eu institutions, for example a vegetarian week in the european parliament, the commission and the council would be a good, modern and green start for a more sustainable union.
we are also critical of the formulation by the european parliament of an invitation to croatia to carry out an information campaign to raise public awareness of the environment.
i am thinking first of all of climate and energy policy.
i am the rapporteur on the budget for the committee on industry, and we have, for example, the major energy technology plan, the set plan, we have the energy efficiency measures and so on, all of which lack adequate budgetary resources.
the measures proposed by parliament to bring the debate on organ donation, national telephone lines, positive media coverage of organ donation and the training of sports stars may be justified, but these efforts will be decided by the member states themselves, based on the social climate prevailing in each country.
three conclusions i have drawn, which are also in the report we are voting on, are firstly that it is unacceptable for member states to set fishing quotas year after year which are much higher than what science says is sustainable, (2) that the commission and the member states must be tougher in fighting crime and fraud with quotas and (3) that we must develop a new fisheries policy which strengthens the incentives and reasons for professional fishermen to care for the stocks.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
greater use of the available land is good for the fight for a better climate.
if we can achieve this, we can also give a boost to the international doha negotiations, the free trade negotiations, and at the same time make a contribution to a better climate and a better world.
− the report by ana maria gomes covers many important aspects, not least the fact that the involvement of the eu and china should be in the interest of the african countries and people, and that external investors operating in africa should respect social and environmental rules.
but biodiversity is under threat.
no wonder we are facing a climate catastrophe and a biological depletion.
we are therefore committing ourselves, for example, to developing action plans to protect biodiversity and to establishing a global network of protected areas on land and at sea, just as an example.
the very foundations must be attacked, otherwise we will never be able to solve the environmental problems.
when the eu and the member states subsidize infrastructure, motorways always get far more than sustainable means of transport.
subsidies which are directly negative for the environment should not be paid and agricultural aid should be earmarked for environmental measures and organic farming.
biodiversity and climate-smart solutions should be written as a main objective of agricultural policy, not maximum yield.
i know this is like swearing in church, but the eu simply cannot continue to let the market take precedence over a progressive environmental policy.
a few weeks ago, european commissioner günter verheugen replied to me that in the last five years the commission has brought individual countries before the court of justice 19 times in environmental or public health cases.
the real scary thing is that in all these 19 cases the court has gone along with the commission, that is to say, the member states have not been allowed to take measures to protect the environment or public health.
if we are serious about this, we need an environmental guarantee worthy of the name.
in conclusion, the commission has in our resolution we call for sustainability standards for biofuels.
i would like to ask, perhaps especially the council: are you prepared to develop not only environmental requirements for biofuels, but also social standards for biofuels to guarantee, for example, sustainable wages, trade union rights, etc.
mr president, i think that if there is one thing to do to try to halt the loss of biodiversity, it would be to halt the destruction of tropical forests.
the real problem is that ecosystem services, whether we are talking about carbon sinks, biodiversity or regulation of the regional climate or hydrological system, have no real value on the market.
there is a solution: include forests in the emissions trading.
the problem is that you provide no alternative, and we all know that there are very limited financial resources in the biodiversity convention – and there are not likely to be any in the future either.
we need a comprehensive approach addressing climate change, carbon sinks, biodiversity and protection of livelihoods of the poor.
it would require dg environment and dg development to work closely together.
please give us an alternative so that we have something on the table and can discuss, otherwise i am afraid deforestation will continue and so will biodiversity loss.
my follow-up question now on question 3 is: does this wording mean that the eu should determine not only the objectives of global environmental policy but also the means, the means that the member states should use to achieve the objective?
it is a good wording that mr goudin uses and it is a great thing that people want to preserve and improve the environment, it is a good wording in the treaty of lisbon.
the problem with the eu's environmental policy is that it is always the case that environmental measures are incompatible with the internal market.
commissioner verheugen recently said that in the last five years the commission has taken member states to the ecj 19 times in cases where member states have legislated for the environment.
in all 19 cases, the court has ruled for the internal market versus the environment.
i wonder: does this mean that the environmental guarantee is strengthened in any way?
can we say that the environment is superior to market requirements with a wording like this?
the relation between trade policy and labour and environment will surely be an important area, and other trade subjects might appear on the agenda.
we know that our current economic model fails to integrate environmental costs into market prices.
it responds to the many market failures we experience in several areas, where of course climate change is the most obvious problem today.
one is paragraph 26. you cannot favour an emissions trading system and at the same time ask for a general co2 tax at european level.
we will shortly be taking decisions on the environment committee and anne ferreira's report on market-based environmental instruments.
personally, i am tired of all this talk about market control of environmental policy.
for example, we need tougher emission standards, we need to be able to use public procurement for environmental purposes and environmental taxes and charges.
this is where we really have the market-oriented instruments, because it is precisely about imposing taxes and levies on what aggravates environmental problems, simply internalizing environmental problems.
these instruments are a good example of how we are taking political responsibility for environmental problems rather than putting them on the market.
a carbon tax, a carbon tax combined with a clear reduction requirement is likely to be the most effective way to bring down emissions.
my own country was the first in the world to introduce a carbon tax.
without claiming that sweden is a pioneer in all climate areas, the co2 tax has actually been one of the main reasons why we have reduced our carbon dioxide emissions.
in paragraph 26 of this report we call for a carbon tax.
i think today there is a very unique opportunity to push for a carbon tax and other environmental taxes.
another issue is the emissions trading system.
the system has failed to reduce emissions and many polluters have even been given generous allocations and made huge profits on this system.
if this does not happen, consideration should be given to replacing the trading system entirely with something else, such as high taxes on emissions.
in this context, it is important to remember that now that aviation is to be included in the emissions trading scheme, it is not possible to limit the measures against aviation to the trading scheme alone.
i would like to ask the commission: you've said before that you're going to present measures against the nitrogen oxide emissions of aviation, against nox, and that it's going to come this year.
given that aviation has almost doubled its emissions in the last ten years, there are many of us in this room who want to see concrete action.
these instruments are therefore a good example of how we are taking political responsibility for climate change.
with taxes and fees, we can speed up the necessary emissions reductions and hopefully solve the entire climate problem.
environmental issues have rightly become one of the major political issues of our time and they have also rightly become one of the most important areas of eu cooperation.
firstly, crossborder environmental pollution in europe cannot be dealt with at the level of the nation state, and this gives the eu an obvious role in such areas.
secondly, the eu is the world's largest economy, with a huge production and foreign trade, and the member states agree to take responsibility for the environmental consequences of this fact.
this combination of size and consensus on basic environmental objectives gives the eu the potential to exert a global influence of considerable significance.
there is no distinction between the consumption of finite resources and the impact on the climate.
the rapporteur is also shameless in using the climate issue as an argument for supranationality, bureaucracy and protectionism.
our job is to make sure that the environmental costs of consumption are reflected in the prices consumers pay.
i would like to express my dissatisfaction that we have not had the opportunity today to vote against the proposal for personal carbon dioxide cards, i.e.
personal cards where we are expected to measure the contribution of individual individuals to the greenhouse effect.
what would be the penalties for those who consume too much carbon dioxide or contribute too much to the greenhouse effect?
no, this kind of idiotic ideas undermines our credibility and takes the focus away from the real, effective means, namely emissions trading, polluter pay principles and other methods that actually work.
i am terribly sorry if in this speech i have contributed to the consumption of more carbon dioxide than i am actually entitled to.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
however, it is important that the eu's work on biodiversity conservation allows for flexibility and the adaptation of eu directives and legislation to national differences.
we believe that economic instruments must be developed at eu level to meet the many environmental and climate challenges.
there are simpler and better general measures to offset the social consequences of environmental policy instruments.
however, we believe that the best way forward is through parliament's ongoing work on reducing the climate impact of passenger cars and regulating the use of pesticides.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances should be approved by the council.
we reject the idea of a 'carbon card' for individuals and small businesses, which would record their energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
we also reject the proposal for carbon dioxide tariffs.
the focus should be on international environmental agreements.
- environmental issues are one of the most important areas of eu cooperation.
cross-border environmental pollution in europe cannot be dealt with at the level of the national states.
however, it is very worrying that the report shamelessly uses climate issues as an argument to increase the political power of the eu and open it up to bureaucracy and protectionism.
the way in which member states deal with environmental policy must be left to the member states themselves.
it is in the competition between countries and companies to find effective solutions to environmental problems that creativity can flourish, not by bureaucratizing existence.
this is not the case with environmental taxes.
i am a great believer in emissions trading and am not opposed in principle to a carbon tax.
point 66, which was not put to a separate vote, was for example on the introduction of a 'carbon card' for individuals and smes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
as a policy-maker, however, i think it is relevant to continuously identify those who are spending time and energy on influencing legislation.
there is no doubt that those who break environmental laws should be punished.
the penalties must be substantial and dissuasive so as to avoid environmental offences in the future.
the eu is obviously committed to improving the way member states work on environmental legislation.
it's also the best way to protect the environment.
fair trade can be used as a tool precisely to support small-scale producers in developing countries and to increase pressure for higher social and environmental standards in these countries.
it is good that you want to emphasize the food safety, the environment and the development dimension!
we are calling for environmental and social standards for biofuels.
the report calls for urgent action to combat climate change.
we need to reduce all unnecessary emissions and reduce transport.
we need to do more business with green technology and smart environmental technology.
it's incredibly important that we actually take our climate responsibility to its fullest!
- we have chosen to vote in favour of this own-initiative report because it contains a number of good papers on the creation of a sustainable ecological and economic management of the eu's marine areas.
there is reason to be sceptical of major campaigning by the eu institutions, but in this case we chose to support this because the environmental situation in the oceans is a pressing issue.
- we fully share some of the views expressed in this report, such as the urgency of combating sulphur and nitrogen oxide emissions from ships and the over-bureaucratized and centralised nature of the common fisheries policy.
i think it is strange that, while we are prohibiting the export of hazardous waste and are almost ending the use of mercury ourselves, we want to delay the export ban so that industry can empty its stocks before it is defined as waste.
when it comes to how we deal with waste, we're talking about fairly small amounts.
the only way to effectively implement eu waste legislation is not to permanently deposit mercury in liquid form.
for my group, therefore, article 7 was extremely important for a settlement, that is to say the article in which we return to the question of solidifying waste.
we cannot have any permanent waste without having reverted to that method.
i am glad to say that i recently received an e-mail from the swedish waste company saying that a pilot plant has now been built that can already today handle 500 kg of waste and convert it into insoluble solid form.
the content of this report is correct, but i would like to see more concrete action on climate change.
in the report we note that global emissions increased by 70% between 1970 and 2004, that the last decade was the warmest ever and that we are facing several tipping points such as the melting of the greenland ice sheet.
that is why we are calling for a reduction in eu emissions of 60-80% by 2050. we are calling for the climate labelling of consumer products and for action to be taken against the large emissions the eu is causing through imports from other countries.
that is absolutely right, but we must also make sure that we make it easier for citizens to live in a climate-friendly way.
unless we politicians create sustainable systems, we have no credibility in calling on people to change their lifestyles.
it only leads to increased transport and it's not sustainable.
avril doyle and i are co-sponsors of the emissions trading act.
- we voted today in favour of the interim report on the scientific facts on climate change.
a high degree of commitment and determination is required to achieve the best possible outcome in addressing the political challenges of climate change.
poverty is the biggest polluter and the ambition to reduce climate change is not in contradiction with growth and modernisation.
aid must be used in a way that ensures quality and long-term sustainability so that we can meet the millennium development goals.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the intention of this directive was to establish environmental and quality standards for a range of hazardous chemicals and thus protect waterways against chemicals and other harmful substances.
fisheries in west african waters are close to being depleted, the illegal timber trade is damaging to the environment and the exploitation of other natural resources has proven to have little impact in a poor and politically unstable region.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i would just like to say one thing in response to her intervention earlier today: do not let member states run away from their responsibility to fight energy poverty and secure the well-being of their citizens; do not let any government abdicate that responsibility.
having said that, i would like to emphasise what i think is the most fundamental question in this discussion, namely: are the european energy markets good enough?
is the legislation good enough regarding consumers’ well-being, low prices, industry and competitiveness, and the opportunities to make the best use of all energy sources, not least renewables?
i think it is fair to say that the answer is ‘no’ if we are to respond to the challenges of climate change, to decrease energy dependency and to connect the european energy markets with each other.
the energy markets of today are not good enough.
the commission and parliament have a duty to assess whether something is in accordance with general policy principles such as good animal husbandry, not misleading the consumer, maintaining a high level of environmental protection in accordance with the precautionary principle.
we need to go further regarding the energy market, the internal market and how to achieve better results in all areas, but also to understand that the nice treaty is not enough if we are to proceed with the same development and the same visions with which we have achieved so much.
for example, she has pointed out what we think is important, namely that there is a certain difference between the commission's annual policy statement and what is actually proposed in the budget in terms of, for example, climate and energy policy.
this year, therefore, we can concentrate on energy and climate policy instead.
just to give you an idea of the scale of the problem: the rapporteur, mr buzek, for the strategic energy technology plan, is talking about eur 2 billion per year from 2009 onwards for the so-called set plan alone.
i do not know if this is realistic, but it does give the impression that energy and climate policy require substantial new resources.
the seventh framework programme, like the sip innovation programme, has some money for energy and climate policy, but remember that those levels were set back in 2005, i.e.
long before we had any idea of what the 2008 climate and energy policy would look like.
however, it is proposed that the money should be taken from the seventh framework programme's cooperation programme and its energy component.
we want a comprehensive picture of the whole energy and climate policy effort because it is almost impossible to get one today.
this must start to be substantially re-resourced as early as 2009. we are also convinced that the energy and climate issues are the strongest argument for a substantial mid-term review of the long-term budget starting next year.
that is why it has been important for me and the environment committee to ban these substances.
the second change concerns the environmental impact of additives.
an example of the environmental impact of additives is the sweetener sucralose.
if the compromise is accepted, it will now be clear that environmental considerations should be taken into account when deciding on additives.
the inclusion of the environment as one of the criteria for the approval of additives is an improvement.
the commission has also been asked to present a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
a gas pipeline on the bottom of the baltic sea would increase climate emissions and pose serious environmental risks to the sensitive ecosystems of the baltic sea.
the planned pipeline if it is implemented as planned is a major betrayal of the commitment so often expressed in words in the climate discussions.
however, the talk about climate change must be taken seriously and translated into concrete actions and measures.
any lock-in in billions of dollars in natural gas investment delays the necessary investment in alternative renewable energy and goes against all the objectives of environmental protection and of halting climate change.
the baltic sea and climate issues must be brought into focus, which is why we demand that nord stream disclose an alternative land route before any decision is taken on a possible future gas pipeline - this in full accordance with the swedish government's decision in february this year.
the pipeline is based on three fundamental flaws: it's environmentally wrong, it's investing billions in fossil gas instead of renewable energy, and it's going to be environmentally destructive and release huge amounts of sludge.
it's going to be an environmental disaster with pcbs, ddt and chemical warfare on the bottom.
in the name of environmental solidarity, he should show some concern for the baltic as well.
even the experts on the un's climate panel are amazed at the melting that is taking place.
of course, this frightening development is directly linked to our emissions and global warming.
that is why we must tackle all sectors that contribute to the emission of carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases.
so far, the aviation industry has increased its emissions by about 100 percent since 1990. the airline industry has so far gotten away with it.
the reduction requirements for aviation should have been higher, emissions other than co2 should have been included, the emission allowances should not have been given out for free.
the airline will be forced to reduce its emissions, and a small part of the emission allowances will have to be auctioned.
the auction will also provide us with revenue that will be used for climate action in europe and in developing countries.
in conclusion, i would like to put a question to the commission: can you promise that countries which want to take parallel measures to reduce aviation emissions, such as the uk's air passenger duty, can continue to do so?
however, we believe that parliament has expressed a clear line on environmental impact assessment, which we support and welcome.
it is therefore of the utmost importance that environmental impact can be kept to a strict minimum if permits are to be granted for the construction of the gas pipeline.
mr president, whatever we talk about, whether environmental or security issues, climate change or european competitiveness, the energy markets and how they function in the future are crucial.
this also applies to the discussion about the next phase of our legislation regarding carbon dioxide emissions: how to share the burdens and how to develop a scheme of european emissions trading.
that is why i would like to turn to the presidency and stress that, when we have debated here today and voted tomorrow on the second part of the energy package, it is of the utmost importance that the presidency start the discussions between parliament and council.
we can ask ourselves whether the european energy markets are functioning as well as they should.
electricity is dependent on a number of different sources of energy and different producers, while gas tends to be more dependent on distributors.
that is why the difference in the legislation which we are talking about – namely that we have full ownership unbundling on electricity and this scheme that the committee on industry, research and energy decided on in parliament – is acceptable.
it is important to make sure that the legislation on gas allows for a separation between production and distribution that also gives real strength to the third-country clause of the energy package.
the european energy market is in very serious trouble.
we have an import requirement that will go up to 65 percent by 2030. we have consumers who cannot choose the kind of energy they want, and who are suffering from rising energy prices and the effects of greenhouse gases and climate change.
those who oppose this view argue that breaking the monopoly between owners and distribution would lead to higher energy prices.
i have to ask the following question: when we have rising energy prices and the climate effect, do we solve it through multiple monopolies?
the result of the votes in the committee gives us some of what we need, but we still have a lot of steps to take to have a functioning, environmentally friendly energy market in europe.
the current uncertain economic environment with financial uncertainties is putting the ecb under great pressure.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we are also in favour of research and development into new sources of energy with low or no carbon emissions.
i share karl von wogau's view that satellite monitoring systems should be financed from the european budget, not only for the purpose of using such a system for security purposes, but also for other purposes of common interest, such as environmental purposes.
we therefore also do not see eu fisheries agreements as a long-term sustainable way of fighting poverty and supporting development.
we also want to support sustainable development in those countries where fisheries agreements with the eu are currently a major source of income, through changes in eu trade and aid policies and various forms of partnership.
the ecologically sustainable management of water and fisheries resources is of course important to protect our habitat.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
today, it is impossible for an advertiser to advertise a product that would increase environmental problems or accelerate climate change.
we talk a lot about taking action on climate change, but if we had taken a holistic view of the environment, we would have copied the un legislation here as well.
so the reason is not some kind of environmental or health logic.
no, we do not want to copy category five because the number of substances would then have increased, although the point of the whole thing is that we would have a common global standard that would facilitate both trade and, in this case, also the environment and information to consumers.
the labelling will also lead to the strengthening of public health over law and for the environment.
before i started working on environmental issues, i must admit that my knowledge of chemicals was relatively limited.
i would just like to respond to what my colleague graham booth said here that the environmental movement wants to protect people, but not animals.
this can contribute to safer chemical handling, which is beneficial to the environment and health.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
my home country sweden was one of the first countries to liberalise the markets for energy, electricity, trains and mail.
i would like to highlight three areas in particular: vulnerable groups, population diseases and the link between climate and health.
much of this, of course, is related to the climate effect.
we also need an analysis of the different scenarios for the climate effect.
if we are to make concrete and good decisions on the climate package, we also need solid material on the different climate scenarios we have to deal with in the future.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the environmental, tax, customs, energy and transport sectors are the worst affected.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
this own-initiative report is a waste of taxpayers' money which the european parliament should not be concerned with.
we also believe that, in view of our climate and our environment, and for economic reasons, the european parliament should have its seat in brussels only.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of foodstuffs.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
it is in this way that international trade should be used as a tool to promote sustainability and development worldwide.
the chairman of the un's climate panel, rajendra pachauri, recently called for a reduction in meat consumption.
finally, 2009 will be an important year to take action on energy policy, where we currently have a number of legislative items going forward.
there is legislation on the energy markets (which still has to be completed), on renewables, on effort sharing and on emission trading.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the transport sector.
− illegal logging and deforestation cause serious damage to the environment and everyone agrees that the felling of sensitive tropical forests must be reduced.
commissioner androulla vassiliou said in the committee on the environment on 1 april this year during a hearing, and i quote: trans fat is definitely not good for health, there is no doubt about that.
in addition, the meat industry is greatly exacerbating climate change.
it is counterproductive and, moreover, a bizarre waste of taxpayers' money.
the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
however, we voted in favour of the amendment which proposes a reduction in vat on energy-saving goods and services, as this could be one of many ways of stimulating the transition to more energy-efficient alternatives.
thirdly, the actions regarding climate change must start now, in spite of the financial crisis, so that we can benefit from a long-term process; in this way we can fight climate change and be prepared to meet the other changes it will bring about.
i am a staunch eu sceptic, but there are two areas where the eu should have a central international role: trade policy and environmental policy.
all workers in europe must be guaranteed a sustainable income.
nevertheless, the report is characterised by interventionist ambitions and far-reaching proposals for how the eu should steer developments in a number of policy areas in ukraine, including energy policy, fiscal policy, telecommunications, water, tourism and education.
− we share the concern of the resolution about the effects of climate change on the sustainability of the communities that inhabit the arctic area as well as the effects on the natural habitat, and we recognise the significance of the arctic for the global climate and therefore the arctic as a common concern.
− mr president, this report is a response to the global climate change alliance, which was launched by the european commission towards the end of last year.
basically, the global climate change alliance is a very good initiative.
it is, first and foremost, a recognition that low-income countries will be seriously at risk because of climate change.
there was hardly any mention of climate change, yet it was obvious – already then – that many low-income countries would suffer badly from the adverse effects of climate change.
– climate change on its track, development cooperation on another track – was already a real impediment or hindrance towards fully recognising the threat of climate change to development and poverty reduction.
some measures need not cost more: if you do development planning and poverty reduction strategies taking into account the adverse effects of climate change at the beginning, you may not end up with increased costs.
finally, all that we do in this area must be seen in the context of next year’s climate negotiations in copenhagen.
secondly, the climate package.
we have voted on the climate package in the two main committees and by a large majority have decided to support the commission's proposal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
however, we oppose the request that the budget should increase from eur 60 million today to eur 2 billion in 2010 to finance the climate change alliance.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide climate change alliance.
unfortunately, the basic intentions of the report have been peppered with writings that junilista cannot support, including the call to link the union's environmental commitment with a common foreign and security policy and detailed proposals on how the eu should initiate environmental initiatives in third countries.
the climate change alliance can also be seen, according to some of the report's lines, as an attempt by the eu to extend its powers in forestry and maritime matters.
junilista is strongly in favour of eu cooperation covering cross-border environmental issues.
however, poverty reduction and environmental action at global level should be carried out within the framework of the un.
it's about energy, it's about iran, it's about the climate.
here, at least two thirds of the money goes to agriculture and to structural funds, including waste and corruption.
what the eu should be investing in, for example, large-scale research like the fusion project in barcelona, or common infrastructure like galileo or carbon capture and storage, etc., is small potatoes in this budget.
i'm talking about the climate crisis, the food crisis, the financial crisis.
the committee on industry proposes at least a 5% increase in all operational appropriations relating to climate and energy, but this is still a drop in the bucket.
when i do, it is on reports on the internal market or on some environmental issue.
at the same time, the big picture must be seen, and the good news is the growing awareness that much more resources must be devoted to what are really common tasks - in this case the climate.
it is good for your health and provides a much-needed boost of energy.
in the eu, we will work for lower emissions, against crime and for increased mobility.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
− as long as fossil fuels are necessary to meet the eu's energy needs, it is important to support initiatives aimed at mitigating environmental impacts, for example through ccs technology.
otherwise, the emissions trading system risks becoming inefficient and top-down.
getting the climate package together will not only save the climate – saving us from disasters and epidemics and avoiding costs – but is also the best preparation for times to come.
what we need instead is a green new deal for investments, innovation research and energy smart technology, including in cars.
we need a green new deal for new jobs and new wealth in a sustainable way.
the council has been vocal about the need to curb environmental investments and ambitions.
what we need is investment in research and development, new environmental technologies and new infrastructure that is much more environmentally friendly than the infrastructure we have today.
the commission must also respond to this by linking long-term sustainable development: economic, environmental and social.
in the field of environment as well as in the field of energy.
the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment from harmful substances, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, and the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents.
the proposal also involves a shift of money from direct support for agricultural production to rural development, focusing on the four priority areas of climate change, renewable energy, water management and biodiversity.
however, we do not share the view that there is a need for more subsidies to beekeepers and more protection against environmental protectionism.
the time for the climate negotiations, the eu climate package, is running out, and the responsibility for getting us there in time lies with the french presidency.
the energy package is also being discussed.
the energy package is very important for transparency and a functioning market.
i would like to mention a few points, however, concerning emissions trading.
secondly: if the measures force companies to move out of europe through carbon leakage, they will of course be compensated.
that is why we should not be in a hurry to identify any victims before the copenhagen climate conference.
the money raised from climate action shall also be invested in climate action.
we now have 24 hours with parliament and the trilateral meeting on emissions trading.
in march 2007, eu heads of government pledged that the eu would reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020. it's a commitment that by itself is not enough to stop warming at the magic 2c limit that the research tells us is needed.
that is why i am very concerned to see that the instrument for achieving this goal, the climate package, is becoming weaker by the day.
on monday, an informal agreement was reached between the french presidency and the major groups in parliament on how to reduce co2 emissions from cars.
the commission already proposed in 1995 that emissions be limited to 120 g of co2.
i am also tired of hearing people use the financial crisis as an excuse for not taking responsibility for their climate impact.
the negotiations on the emissions trading system are also in the final stages.
it doesn't look bright for the climate here either.
of course we should support climate projects in developing countries, but they have to be in addition to our own emissions reductions and not replace them.
the reason is the most recent science presented after the ipcc reports, and the message is that climate change is both more rapid and more serious than experts thought only a few years ago.
the most alarming new information is about the interplay between the climate system, the oceans and the terrestrial eco-systems.
oceans and vegetation on land have camouflaged warming by absorbing more than half of man-made emissions so far.
this sink capacity is now at risk because of global warming, and it is further aggravated by the over-use and destruction of major eco-systems, in particular forests.
while we can control emissions, we have no control over such positive feedback on the planetary system.
the most difficult area has been the sustainability criteria.
here we had a breakthrough last night with the council on more ambitious greenhouse gas savings when using biofuels, and on including indirect land-use effects in the life-cycle analysis.
climate change is different from all other issues we are discussing.
it is one of the most important tasks of europe and the european union to ensure that we now have an international commitment to take the global climate targets seriously.
that is why it is so important to ensure that we now have a climate package in place that lives up to the targets we have set.
the council and parliament are negotiating the climate package.
the latest research suggests that we would have to reduce emissions by more than the climate package requires.
it is also with sadness in my heart as a swede that i see that the swedish moderate government is one of the main actors in preventing the eu from taking the lead in the climate package.
for several reasons, the majority of the eu's emissions reductions must be done at home: firstly, because we have a moral responsibility to reduce our own emissions; secondly, because it is by taking the lead and showing that it is possible to combine emissions reductions with high economic growth that we can get with other countries on an international climate agreement; thirdly, because we must have incentives in place for our industry to develop the new green technologies needed to be competitive in the future.
i would therefore urge parliament to oppose the swedish government's position and insist that the bulk of the emission reductions be made within europe and also insist that part of the emissions trading revenue should go to the developing countries.
that is how we will gain credibility, and that is how we can get an international climate agreement in place in the autumn of 2009 in copenhagen.
we've promised the un and others that we're going to reduce emissions by 20 to 45 percent.
when these countries then have to deliver their own climate policy, they will have to pay more for it.
climate policy must include aid and action at home.
on emissions from cars, is so worthless that the paper it is written on is emitting more than it will save on europe's and the earth's climate.
it's bad for the automotive industry, it's bad for the environment and it's bad for consumers, who want energy-efficient cars for the future.
together with the financial and energy crises, the living conditions of large sections of the population are now at risk of deteriorating sharply.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
− madam president, i agree that this renewables directive is the best part of the energy and climate package.
i am particularly happy that they managed to vastly improve the sustainability criteria for biofuels.
when full auctioning is postponed to 2027 – a generation from now – and more than 60% of emissions reductions can be made in third countries, where is the necessary push and where are the necessary incentives for the transformation of energy production, transportation, industrial production, etc.?
this is serious for our long-term efforts to cut emissions but also for industry.
− we have had an emissions trading system in place in europe since 2005. this debate has been about improving these rules.
we have more shipping and we have the ability to negotiate with the countries around us on emissions trading.
the structure is still there, the environmental objectives are there, the instruments have been weakened by the actions of the member states.
i regret that, but i would still recommend that you vote yes, because the cost of not having a climate package in place is infinitely greater.
the swedish author and nobel prize winner selma lagerlöf begins one of her most famous novels with the exclamation finally!, and that is what all of us who have worked on these different issues in the climate package can say.
there are many of us who would like to go further, but let us remember that there are also many who do not believe in the climate effect, who do not want any decision and who would gladly have postponed all the handling, all the handling and above all the vote that we are going to have tomorrow, and that is the situation with which we are going to compare.
in the best of worlds, i would wish for more emission reductions in europe, for fewer emission allowances to be given away for free, but at the same time i can see that we have achieved a number of positive things such as increased transparency, simpler rules, exemptions for small businesses, carrots, incentives for energy efficiency in industry and a threshold for aid to developing countries.
if we do not start this work now, the costs will be enormous, and what we have to do now is to take our responsibility in the vote tomorrow, for the environment, for industry and for the people of europe.
emissions are increasing at an unprecedented rate.
the increase of 2.2 parts per million of co2 per year is the fastest increase in co2 emissions in 650,000 years.
we need to get down to 350 parts per million of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
the ets is the eu's main instrument for reducing emissions.
this has never been the thinking of the climate commission, which speaks of the flexible mechanisms as complementary measures only.
i am also disappointed that the auction procedure is taking too long to come into full effect and that energy companies with sufficient capital will be granted free allocation if they build pilot plants for carbon capture and storage, known as ccs.
this means that europe's emissions must be reduced continuously.
as a rule, industry lobbyists and conservative member states have been successful in their attempts to water down climate ambitions.
there is a lot to comment on this, but if i were to comment on what i am most pleased with, i would like to highlight what we have done with cars, that we take into account the environmental benefits cars do, but also that we give car companies reasonable time to develop new car models.
unfortunately, we have a council that is turning a blind eye to the fact that we in europe must take our responsibility to solve the climate problem.
we cannot take 80 percent of our climate responsibility outside our own borders and let the poorest countries on earth, when they're going to do their climate shop, pay dearly for their climate work while we do the simple and cheap things.
we need to reduce our own emissions by 70 to 80 percent if we're going to meet the climate goals.
cost-effectiveness is an important principle and the compromise in front of us would be ok as proposed if the objective were to cut 20% of global emissions.
we need a thorough transformation of energy transport in industrial production, construction etc.
since 1990, emissions from the european transport industry have increased by over 30%.
the big losers in this, yes, are the environment and social democracy.
for the environment, this is a lost opportunity to take control of car emissions.
most cars in the future will be sold in india and china and other developing countries, and they want energy-efficient cars.
mother earth wants energy-efficient cars, and european consumers want energy-efficient cars.
no, it is bad policy for the environment, for consumers, for the economy and for research.
tomorrow parliament will decide on the various elements of the climate package.
this will have meant that we have negotiated and decided on important elements of the future european energy and environment policy in a very short time.
it also means that parliament and the council will have completed the climate package much earlier than we will have implemented and decided on the energy markets.
the energy market we are now building under the climate package requires a well-functioning energy market across europe's borders, with competition to keep prices down.
we should also ensure that we can take advantage of every single source of energy available to us in europe.
in that part, the order between the market package and the climate package has been a little upside down.
but when we decide tomorrow on the climate package, the french presidency is also required to deal with this situation, to initiate a process which will allow the negotiations to start immediately and the discussions on disengagement, unbundling, better competition and crossborder links to start as soon as possible.
this is important not only to keep prices down and to increase competition, but also to ensure that the various member states which may be put at a greater risk by the climate package do not become isolated or isolated.
as the rapporteur for the budgetary committee on industry, i have to say that we in the committee agreed at a very early stage, even before the crisis hit, that we must increase our efforts, particularly in the areas of climate and energy measures and small and mediumsized enterprises.
now that we have removed the barriers to trade, we must also have a common infrastructure, not least a common energy infrastructure, and a common research activity to become world leaders.
the results of the commission's open consultation on the long-term budget show what it is all about: a stable and long-term commitment to growth, environment and climate policies.
the vote on the climate package, one of the most important votes of the year, should be held in the same way as any other vote.
- we swedish social democrats decided to vote in favour of this report on the reform of the emissions trading system.
in the main, however, we believe that the climate package as such is not ambitious enough.
more will be required of the eu to meet the challenge of climate change.
we are disappointed that the compromise between the council and the european parliament does not provide sufficient guarantees that part of the proceeds from the auction will go to climate action in developing countries.
the revision of the emissions trading system is a step forward from the current rules.
emissions allowances will be gradually auctioned to industry, rather than being given away for free as is the case today.
it commits the eu to adjust its climate target from 20% to 30% reduction by 2020 at a successful climate agreement in copenhagen next year.
it also calls on member states to use their auction revenues for climate action in europe and beyond.
this softening reduces the incentive to develop new and more low-carbon technologies.
it also reduces the revenue that the eu needs to help developing countries invest in green technologies, adapt to climate change and protect tropical forests.
we believe that this is the wrong signal to the rest of the world, which expects the eu to lead on climate change, and we are concerned that the eu is now failing to put clear drivers in place to develop new green technologies.
major efforts are needed to help developing countries invest in low-carbon technologies.
we don't have the time or the money to choose whether we're going to have a chance of preventing dangerous climate change.
we have to start now if we're going to have any chance of getting to near zero emissions by 2050. industry needs strong incentives for the necessary transition in energy, transport, construction, industrial production, etc.
in particular, it is the first in the world to require binding reductions from all sectors not covered by emissions trading.
however, we have chosen to vote in favour of the proposal as a whole, as we believe that a rejection would mean an even later introduction of environmental rules for the automotive industry.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.