mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. exactly one year ago, we saw the images of the pandemic in china, in wuhan, and then the aftermath of the pandemic in lombardy, and just 12 months later, we have two safe, effective vaccines that have been approved in the european union. this is a great success for us as the european union. i am convinced that we have only succeeded because we have given so much support here in the areas of research and also in the areas of joint procurement. because otherwise we would not have been able to really mitigate these drastic consequences. there would have been cracks in society, and if we had not been collectively procuring and acting here, those cracks would have been much deeper. we must not let up in the last few metres. the point is, we've already approved two vaccines. but we cannot wait a day to authorize more vaccines. the virus is still killing many people every day, and the population is eagerly waiting to be vaccinated. so please don't let go! we need more licensed vaccines, and we need more vaccines for our population. then there is the urgent need to think about the next steps back to normal. i would therefore ask you to consider the possibility of introducing a european vaccination card jointly, because this could also be part of the way back to normalcy. i would like to ask the commission to be unbureaucratic and to act quickly so that we can create something new.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the only way we're going to defeat this pandemic is if we have a vaccine available to all people around the world, with international solidarity. the european union has secured 2.3 billion doses of vaccine, and that's much more than we need. as the european union, we must ensure that countries that cannot afford vaccines are also provided with enough vaccines. because once again, the only way we're going to beat this pandemic is if covid is stopped everywhere in the world. so my questions are: how do we as the european union intend to donate surplus vaccine doses? are there any arrangements? and how are the manufacturers involved? i am not going to go into detail. it is good that the european union is involved in the covax programme. but is that enough? i'm not going to. the funding target for 2021 has not been reached, a billion hole is opening. and that's why it's incomprehensible to me that the european union is still firmly opposed to the proposal by south africa and india to grant covid patent exemptions within the trips agreement. as the eu we can and must help, and so in closing i make an urgent appeal to the council and the commission: take advantage of the vaccination summit this thursday and create clarity on international solidarity. it is not enough to talk about it, we must act!
mr president, we are stronger together, and the commission's joint purchasing strategy has shown this. no european country, however large, would have obtained more doses and at a better price than it has obtained with this joint strategy of the commission. however, commissioner, the success of this strategy cannot be obscured by a lack of transparency. we need to see the contracts signed by the commission. and i ask you, in the interests of transparency, to fight against fake news and denialists, to close that reading room and make public all contracts signed by the commission. i would also ask you, commissioner, to urge the member states to vaccinate in response to an emergency, that is, seven days a week for 24 hours; to put the european vaccination card into operation as soon as possible. we need digitized data that is homologated across the 27 member states, and that this global pandemic responds to a global vaccine. covax is fine, but we need more. we need it to be a global public good.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the centralised purchasing and distribution system is a great step forward for the european union and we must not therefore throw it away for lack of transparency. in the negotiations between the pharmaceutical companies and the commission, the commission identified five inclusion criteria: the scientific robustness, risk management, price, production capacity and speed of production. yet, with a total expenditure of some 30 billion for just six pharmaceutical companies, it seems that only the last criterion, speed of production, really mattered. can the commission tell us whether it is true that vaccines have been paid for at 2 euros per vial and other vaccines up to 18 euros per vial? can the commission tell us whether it is true that a minimum of 2 billion to a maximum of 3.3 billion vaccines have been purchased for a population of 500 million, so that with a double dose at the most we are going to end up with one billion? and above all, can you tell us whether it is true that agreements have been signed with pharmaceutical companies which had not completed the studies, so that there was no certainty about the effectiveness and no guarantee that there were no serious side effects?
president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to pay a great compliment to the commission and the european union for having jointly purchased a large quantity of vaccines. you should not think that member states are trying to outdo each other to get the vaccine as soon as possible. every day we are informed how many people are infected, how many hospitalizations there are, how many people are on icu. i think it would also be good if we were informed every day about how many people in the european union have been vaccinated, that we get an insight into how well we are on track to defeat this terrible virus. for example, does the commission intend to set up an internet portal where this information can be found very easily by the european citizen? and finally, i have a question. each member state has a corona app. my question is: are these corona apps from the different member states communicating with each other now? i'm asking for a friend.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the commission's attention to what is happening with pfizer in italy. pfizer has decided to deliver 164 000 doses of vaccine to italy less than it had agreed. this decrease has an extraordinary impact on the vaccination rate in some italian regions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's health system is not affected by the new drugs. pfizer has justified itself to the italian government by saying that they are in the process of upgrading the puurs plant and that they will try to remedy this decrease in vaccine delivered. the truth is probably something else, namely that pfizer has sold or is selling these vaccines to countries outside the eu. and the situation is even more serious, because these regions that i have mentioned are a bit the locomotive of the country and slowing down the vaccination work in these regions means somehow stopping the country. moreover, the clauses laid down by the commission, namely the impossibility for large companies to buy vaccines directly and to vaccinate their employees, mean that large italian companies are essentially paralysed and unable to move forward until these vaccines are delivered. we ask the commission whether it is aware of what we have said.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for the work she has done so far. the vaccination campaign is the main tool today to bring us back to a more normal life, similar to the pre-pandemic life. it is vital to save lives and to give breathing space to europeans, who are being squeezed in an increasingly worrying economic crisis. europe is good. i am proud of this europe which has decided to coordinate its efforts and to be united by concentrated purchasing and by resources for scientific research. parliament and the commission must be prepared to ensure that there are no shortcuts by member states to unilateral solutions in order to obtain more doses than those allocated. my question relates to the problem in my country, italy, but not only, where pfizer has unilaterally decided to reduce the availability of doses for this week. what measures are provided for in the european pandemic plan in the event of delays or non-compliance by pharmaceutical companies, as in the case of pfizer? are there any penalties?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need not only the coronavirus vaccine, but also a vaccine against unnecessary bureaucracy. there is no understanding of why vaccination is slower in some eu countries than in others. it must be the top priority in the whole of the european union. we also need a vaccine against unscientific schmafu. because the fact that nurses across the union in many places are not willing to be vaccinated with a safe vaccine tells us that we urgently need much more education. and we also need a vaccine against dangerous populism. austrian chancellor kurz has announced that he will personally push for the approval of another vaccine before he runs out of patience. the european medicines agency works according to scientific standards. the experts there decide independently whether a vaccine is now effective and safe. we need to strengthen the back of science. and you, mr chancellor kurz, must ensure that the vaccines delivered are vaccinated in austria and not sent to the whole country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the railways are a proven, safe, efficient and, above all, environmentally friendly technology with a great past, but also, of course, a great future. the development of the trans-regional rail network is of particular importance to my home country, austria, both as an industrial location and as a transit country. the carelessness of germany and italy in the construction of the brenner line is therefore particularly painful. the brenner route is one of the most important north-south links in europe. another very important north-south link would be the tauern-pyhrn/schober axis. it is intended to connect the main industrial regions of austria to the ten-t network. at the same time, it would close a gap in the eastern alpine region to slovenia, croatia and the entire western balkans. the czech republic has also expressed its interest in this route. unfortunately, the austrian ministry of transport is lacking this time. and now, in order to promote the inclusion of this tauern-pyhrn/schober axis in the ten-t network, i have tabled an amendment to the report to that effect, and i ask all my colleagues to support that amendment. this is an important project, of particular importance for austria, but also for the czech republic and all the balkan countries. we can give the local economy a real boost here and bring it back a little closer to the rest of europe, and that is particularly important in the present situation.
in writing. the situation at the eu's external borders is catastrophic. i've been saying the same thing for months, if not years. it is not possible that hundreds to thousands of people who have fled from poverty have to endure freezing cold without (warm) water, without any supply, even without a roof over their heads, and often still face violence. unfortunately, this is the reality in europe, on the borders of the european union, which is based on values such as human dignity, human rights and democracy. first of all, the european union must finally recognize that it too has a responsibility for these people at the external borders and must not condemn but actively support countries such as bosnia and herzegovina. human conditions and accommodation are essential. the rights of asylum and of effective complaint must always be granted to every individual. illegal pushbacks are absolutely unacceptable and must be stopped completely and immediately. the people responsible, including the eu agency frontex, must be investigated. another concern i have is the use of eu funds. it is imperative to ensure that the money reaches those for whom it is intended. as a union, we have a legal and moral obligation to guarantee human rights both within and in our neighbourhood and foreign policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the arrest of alexei navalny on sunday in moscow is illegal. mr navalny must be released immediately. and it is yet another sign of the terrible human rights situation in russia. freedom of the media is under pressure, and opposition figures are being persecuted, poisoned, imprisoned and murdered. with navalny's arrest and conviction, the russian sham justice system is turning victims into perpetrators. this situation and the worsening situation cannot be tolerated any longer. we must clearly stand with the oppressed opposition, the artists, the media. we stand with the russian people. it is high time we discussed targeted sanctions, similar to the magnitsky act. and yes, i agree with mr verhofstadt: we must stop and ban the payments that putin makes to the european far right, where he buys the rights of europe.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the house! natural disasters strike people hard and unexpectedly. unfortunately, this is what happened to our croatian friends at the turn of the year. in the middle of winter, several earthquakes have caused great devastation and left many people homeless. in order to help these people cope with the damage, rapid assistance is also urgently needed. this is of course a matter of solidarity with croatia's european partners. i am convinced that the eu as an institution must provide rapid emergency aid to croatia. in the face of this disaster, we cannot and will not abandon our croatian friends and partners. on behalf of all those who have already helped, i would like to name and thank the initiators of a relief convoy from wels, the largest town in my constituency in upper austria. led by mayor andreas rabl, aid was delivered to petrinja in croatia on the night of january 12. thank you very much for all such initiatives.
the commission has already done so. we demand the immediate and unconditional release of selahattin demirtaş, figen yüksekdağ and many other opposition prisoners: mps, mayors, journalists, members of the opposition hdp and other parties. on 4 november 2016, demirtaş was arrested in turkey with eight other members of parliament, along with eight other mps. for four years the former mp and presidential candidate has been sitting in turkish prisons for a crime he did not commit. the european court of human rights has repeatedly found that the detention was in breach of human rights and that demirtaş and the others should be released immediately. again and again, mps, including those from the opposition chp, such as kaftancıoğlu and others, and journalists are arrested and unlawfully convicted. human rights are under pressure in turkey. we therefore call for his release and for turkey to finally respect human rights standards and the european court of human rights.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the circular economy is fundamental if we in the eu are to achieve our green ambitions, but also our goal of becoming climate neutral by 2050. if we are to make the transition to a more sustainable society, we must rearrange the entire chain, from production and consumption to waste. if everyone consumed the way we do in the eu, we would need three worlds. while people are starving, starving in parts of the world, we consume 90 million tons of food waste every year, and much of it is gone before it even gets on our plates. we know that we have microplastics that are going into our oceans and poisoning our ecosystems, and we know that climate emissions are far beyond what the paris agreement allows. europe must embark on a development where we decouple our economic growth from resource use. we have to stop the cycle. we have to be smarter in all our resource use. this is good for the job, too. this could generate 700 000 new jobs in the circular economy by 2030, and this is what we need to invest in. we therefore welcome the commission's action plan. but we want to make some of the objectives more concrete. i would also like to thank simona bonafè, who has done an excellent job.
i have to say, madam president, the circular economy action plan is taking action where it can make a big difference. 45% of all co2 emissions are somehow attributable to the production of materials and their recycling. that number sounds threatening now. but it also means that we are talking about a key issue in the climate issue. now, just recycling packaging and reducing plastic is not a circular economy. it requires a holistic approach, starting with product design, because that is where 80% of the environmental impact of products is determined. here lies the lever of future prosperity. let us make europe the centre of sustainable product innovation, the world's workbench for everything that is designed to last, be reusable and be recycled! i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr huitema, for his excellent work. we are now waiting for the commission to take concrete and effective action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. lack of prospects, unemployment: the impact of the pandemic on young people's lives is devastating. school closures, homeschooling, which is relentlessly exposing the weaknesses of digitalization, little opportunity for time with friends. group sports are restricted. this means that for many associations that make an indispensable social contribution and are committed to working with children and young people, there has been almost no activity and no revenue for a year. the sports sector employs 5.7 million people. this is a considerable 2.72 per cent of total employment in the eu. the european union must offer its young citizens more than erasmus+. they must be given attention in all the funding programmes. young people must be included in all reconstruction plans. let us give young people in the european union prospects. they are convinced of the idea of european unity. that is why they are the future of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. from the beginning, i was enthusiastic about the epp idea of living european solidarity and setting up a pandemic fund to serve our member states. because my country was also helped by the marshall plan after world war ii. but when i saw the proposals of the parties to the left of the centre, i was slightly irritated. all grants, no loans, no conditionality and no control. this would certainly lead to abuse and not to a sustainable europe. i would therefore like to thank mr siegfried mureşan in particular for the excellent way in which he has designed this programme. the linking of this reconstruction fund to the european semester will create a sound economic governance. clearly defined areas of application, involvement of parliament in the review and evaluation will protect against abuse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they must now present an ambitious programme - lighthouses instead of plugging holes. investments in research, development and digitalisation as prerequisites for climate protection will certainly be the focus here too. but the competitiveness of our enterprises also plays a major role, because only women entrepreneurs create jobs, and we need them very, very much at this time. that is why a job initiative must be at the heart of this ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. relations between russia and europe are at their lowest point. and why are they? because moscow has repeatedly violated basic human rights. moscow is in constant violation of international law. nawalny, overcrowded prisons because protesters are being imprisoned, the ukraine and belarus and, and, and. the list is long. so was it right to go to moscow? yes, because we need dialogue and diplomacy. unfortunately, russia has shown how little interest there is in dialogue. and that's the problem. what is needed now is a european strategy. we must act together and in unity. i say again, we must act together and united. implement targeted and effective sanctions. freezing the accounts, anti-money laundering measures and oligarchs. and it is time to talk seriously about the end of nord stream and other projects.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for decades, myanmar has been fighting for its democracy with the myanmar military. since 2015, it has finally been on the path to democracy, and that is why i am even more appalled by the military coup that took place recently. our solidarity goes to the democratic forces in myanmar, and our solidarity demands the immediate release of aung san suu kyi and all other democratic forces who are now unjustly imprisoned. we must also demand once again that the democratically elected parliamentarians be reinstated and that the democratically elected government be reinstated. the military is violating the burmese constitution. this coup is unconstitutional. the first thing we can do as the european union is to move humanitarian aid away from the capital and directly to ngos.
i have to say, madam president, we cannot expect to get through this coronavirus pandemic flawlessly. this is the greatest crisis that european cooperation has ever faced, and it is the greatest crisis on our continent since the second world war. i do not expect the european commission to be infallible either, but i do expect real openness, and we have not had that so far. when the commission holds the cards close to the body, you are not only gambling with your own credibility, but with the support of the entire eu vaccine strategy, and that can have consequences. the vaccine shipments are delayed, and that delays the reopening of our communities. but we have not had clear enough answers as to where things went wrong. today you've opened up a little more. but more is needed to learn from and correct mistakes, and that requires real openness. it's about getting more vaccines as quickly as possible, the citizens they're suffering. open up so we can improve the strategy, restore confidence and get all of europe through the crisis quickly and safely.
let's start with the good news from last year. the first good news is that there was a common strategy of the european commission to buy vaccines. it was the right thing to do, because otherwise, it would have led to vaccination nationalism. the second right step was symbolic: the first deliveries to be delivered at the same time for the whole european union. and to continue with the good news this year. the figures show that only 3% of the european population is vaccinated. in comparison, the united states has 9 percent, britain 14 percent, and israel over 60 percent. the question of the questions is: why did it come to this? because some of the countries listed were faster than us, and we have to admit that. we were late. the second question is: why don't the vaccines that are made in europe stay here? is there a loophole in the contracts? he needs clear answers. there is a need for transparency, but there is also a need to restore trust between the european institutions and the european citizens. let's shake hands and work together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i want to thank you for your honesty. not all politicians have the capacity to admit mistakes and - at best - to learn from them. but i also think that the critics, your critics, should be able to pick their own noses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not closed. they are the same people who stopped the commission in early 2020 when it wanted to buy medical equipment and masks together. but you're gonna have to get over it. we can do better here if we work together: the eu and the member states. we need the health union you have announced as soon as possible, and the member states must also take part in this, madam secretary of state. we need transparent and coordinated national pandemic and vaccination plans. but above all, we need more vaccine production to reach our medium-term goal of vaccinating 70% of our population. the publication of contracts is of course a nice to have. but it doesn't increase production. what we need is an eu manufacturing task force with the necessary funding to manage, diversify our supply chains and give manufacturers access to the ingredients and molecules they need. but we will achieve all this together, not against each other. let's get to it. let's save lives together.
mr president, mr president of the commission, it is important that we have this in-depth and lengthy debate because there has been a lot of disappointment and uncertainty about vaccines, but also a lot of expectations and hopes. the commission has said it wants to increase transparency in vaccine deliveries outside the eu and has created a new authorisation procedure to this end. is this permitting process already producing results and is it possible to increase the important transparency and reliability in both deliveries and procurement? the next great challenge is mutation. how has the commission prepared for this and for the fact that we may need another round of vaccination after this year? the world health organization has estimated that globally, we will not reach herd immunity this year, even if the eu reaches that critical 70 percent. here in finland, for example, a very promising vaccine is being developed in the form of a nasal swab, and it is important that these new solutions be taken into account in the future.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. what went wrong, president von der leyen, that clouded the picture of the big, historic joint decision on vaccines? why, since the interests of european citizens are being safeguarded, did the companies not get the message in time that the european union will not compromise on deliveries? it is necessary to take precautions so as not to repeat the same mistakes. it's also necessary to ensure that there is enough vaccine supply so that by the second half of 2021, 70% of our population will be vaccinated. no delay on the part of the companies can be accepted any longer and it is necessary to move into global alliances with partners and allies in the united states to ensure the materials and their adequacy necessary to manufacture the vaccines. we also need to have uniform rules for movement within and outside the european union. the vaccination certificate proposed by greece's prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis remains on the table as a credible tool, which will make it easier for vaccinated citizens to travel without additional tests and examinations but will not exclude anyone else who wants to travel safely. finally, i remind you that my country, greece, is going back into lockdown. no aid can replace economic activity. so, mrs von der leyen, it is time to do what is necessary to have our citizens shielded by the summer.
dear vice president, the health of our citizens must be and remains our number one priority. the latest figures show that the vaccination rate in the european union is only 3%, in the united kingdom it's 16%, not to mention israel with 60%. these differences are large, and they are both large and worrying, and we rightly ask whether there is too much emphasis in the negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry on the purchase price of vaccines, rather than on the priority of production and security of supply. in any case, the fact is that we underestimated the challenges of the complexities of vaccine production and distribution, but we also overestimated the promise of the industry. the right of pharmaceutical companies to profit cannot be greater than the right to health. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force. i think we all know that the speed of our recovery depends on this.
i have to say, madam president, president von der leyen, you are right: it was right and important for the eu to work together to provide vaccines for all europeans. but the eu of today, the cooperation between the commission and the member states, has not passed this stress test. the eu of tomorrow must not be allowed to suffer such a fate. we need a union that can act decisively and quickly, a union that does not have to ask the 27 countries every second time if it can do something for them. we must first learn from this and eliminate all unnecessary bureaucracy in the vaccine approval process. this will be relevant in the near future, especially with regard to virus variants. and we need to help all vaccine manufacturers and their partners to get their capacity up and running as quickly as possible. the european vaccination programme must become the act of our generation, day and night, until all those who need a vaccine can get it.
i have to say that i am very pleased. yes, i always feel reminded of george orwell when it comes to freedom of expression and new media in the eu. you say "disinformation", but what you really mean is politically unpopular opinions. you say "media pluralism", but you mean the media that is loyal to the government. and when you talk about "civil society", you are talking exclusively about your politically opportune groups. and citizens' involvement is only desirable as long as it does not deviate from the established course. and now that the eu's failure is obvious to all citizens, you obviously want to act against so-called disinformation. otherwise, citizens might ask themselves unpleasant questions, such as why trillions of euros are being redistributed but no money is available for effective vaccines. or why the eu wants to destroy its own industry in the middle of the economic crisis with the green deal. or why the eu wants to open the floodgates to migrants. of course, you have to keep the lid on. that's why we have this plan of action! your policy is not only endangering the health of the citizens, your policy is not only endangering the jobs of the citizens, your policy is endangering above all the freedom of the citizens!
in writing. we all know and use online services. these giant platforms reach billions of people around the world. but despite their enormous reach, they are still largely unregulated. for a long time, platforms have been left to voluntarily self-regulate they should act against disinformation themselves, on the basis of the eu code of conduct. but the rise of fake news and harmful content shows that this idea of self-regulation has failed. only by democratically controlling social media platforms can we get a handle on this problem. we need a strong legal framework that protects freedom of expression and fundamental rights while restricting harmful content. the european parliament therefore made it clear as early as october last year that the decision on what needs to be removed should be left to the democratic institutions. they must create the legal framework within which independent courts can make decisions. the law, not private entrepreneurs, must determine what is and is not permissible. this creates legal certainty for citizens and platforms. we in parliament will now do everything we can to create strong legislation on freedom of expression and against disinformation on the basis of the commission's proposal.
i have to say, madam president, as is so often the case in the eu, there is a nice headline here, but there is very little else behind it. the ecb has been pumping unrestrained amounts of fresh money into the financial markets for a decade, and this disastrous financial policy has only helped the failing states and financial speculators. but only a fraction of these trillions of euros have been received by the real economy. the relaxation of some regulations and the introduction of a new prospectus will not help much either. i would also remind you that the eu is simultaneously pursuing a huge project to destroy european industry. the green deal is a project that is making life difficult for european industry and is also lacking in legal and planning certainty for businesses in the eu. unfortunately, this european parliament is also to some extent to blame for this. this is poison for the economy. until the eu abandons its ideological actions and returns to a path of reason and real politics, even the most beautiful plans will not help.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the disappearance and imprisonment of paul rusesabagina do not fit the image rwanda is trying to project in europe. it presents itself as safe and stable, attracts tourists to europe and even sponsors a premier league football team. the rusesabagina case, however, the treatment of the rights of a belgian citizen and therefore of the european union, puts all these efforts in the shade and permanently damages rwanda's reputation in europe. this is not the news we want to receive from rwanda, because his fate is certainly not an isolated case. there are repeated violations of the law in connection with the detention of government critics. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment. the treatment of paul rusesabagina is thus becoming a symbol of the treatment of the rule of law and human rights in rwanda. mr paul rusesabagina must be allowed to appeal against his arrest and be represented by a lawyer of his choice without delay. his case must be heard by an independent tribunal under international law. the european union is committed to the development of the region and to the promotion of the development of the region. the institutions of the european union are called upon to investigate the legality of the arrest. the european union is supporting rwanda with a total of eur 460 million under the 11th european development fund, which is also linked to the building of democratic structures and the protection of human rights. the eu delegation in rwanda and the belgian embassy must be given the opportunity to monitor the trial of rusesabagina and to investigate him in prison. the human rights dialogue with rwanda should be conducted at the highest level.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 78% of the population of uganda is under the age of 30. these young people are without prospects, increasingly desperate and disillusioned as they look to their future, and especially because of the events surrounding these presidential, parliamentary and local elections held in january. they were accompanied by intimidation and violence, unfair and took place without independent observers. the european union is providing uganda with a total of eur 558 million under the 11th european development fund, of which eur 169 million is for the building of democratic structures and the protection of human rights. it is obvious that these funds are not working, because the elections of 14 january were marked by increasing violence and intimidation. the police cracked down on election rallies and meetings, even claiming many lives. media freedom has been severely restricted, the internet blocked, and this in a country where over 40% of the population lives below the extreme poverty line and which hosts over a million refugees. that means to me that there are important issues that need to be addressed. i call on the government officials in charge of yoweri museveni to release arrested human rights activists, opposition members and political prisoners immediately. the european union has a duty to ensure that the elections are free, based on international standards, and free from violence and intimidation. the european union has a duty to ensure that journalists are able to carry out their work without restriction. freedom of the press and freedom of expression are the cornerstones of a democratic society. the european commission must immediately and thoroughly verify the funds flowing to uganda. financial support must not be allowed to fall into the hands of those responsible for the oppression of the population. we must not let these visions for uganda of freedom and of human rights be lost.
i have to say that i am very pleased. when european companies relocate their production and thus jobs abroad, to asia, because of too strict climate protection or environmental requirements, and produce more environmentally harmful products there, this is called carbon leakage. this is precisely what the eu has always tried to prevent with a whole range of measures, such as free emission allowances or the co2 cap mechanism. if these measures are to be scaled down now, if they are to be restricted, then this will have exactly two effects: firstly, production and jobs are being moved to asia in the midst of the crisis, and secondly, production is being made in asia that is more harmful to the environment. the report by the committee on the environment is therefore counterproductive in two respects.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the co2 compensation mechanism has three noble objectives: the first is to protect our european companies from unfair competition from foreign firms with lower environmental standards. secondly, the co2 compensation mechanism is an important pillar of the green deal and thirdly, the tax revenues are used for the green transformation and/or for the refinancing of the reconstruction fund. but good intentions are not always good intentions, and i have now learned in the debate that some members really have no understanding of entrepreneurship or any business practice at all. the most important thing in this economic crisis is to keep production in europe and to safeguard jobs and create jobs. the shifting of production in a globalised world is not particularly difficult for companies, but it is not reprehensible either, because they just need to follow their foreign customers, follow their markets. you save on shipping costs, you save on customs costs. and investment and production costs are also about one third lower than in europe. until we have an internationally agreed price for co2, the existing carbon leakage scheme must remain, especially with the free allocation of allowances. our companies need planning certainty. planning horizons are often more than ten years. austria is an exporting country without nuclear power stations and coal-fired power stations, and i do not want our companies to be punished by counter-sanctions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for too long in europe we have left it up to business to ensure that its actions do not harm people or the environment. experience has shown that this is simply not enough. despite positive exceptions, far too few have adhered to standards for the protection of man and nature. this is why we urgently need a supply chain law in the eu that is binding on everyone, because it helps people and the economy. clear rules make it easier for businesses to work, protect consumers and workers, and give victims access to justice. i therefore hope that the commission will come forward with a strong proposal on the basis of this report. only if you act boldly now will the eu's economic future be a future that respects the environment and human rights. it is the only way to solve the problems of our time, whether it is the climate crisis, exploitation or human rights violations, it is the only way to solve all of them. if companies finally take responsibility for this, our world can be a better place.
i have to say, madam president, the only positive economic development of this plenary week is the investeu programme, which is mainly in the epp's handwriting. i should like to thank my budgetary colleague, josé manuel fernandes, who has worked hard and with great dedication. we are aware that in an economic crisis such as this, creating and safeguarding jobs must be a top priority. and this can only be achieved through investment, especially private investment. my member state has already benefited from the predecessor programme in the fields of recycling, renewable energy and cancer research. the eib's role as implementing partner will also make it possible for other member states with weaker structures to benefit from this programme. with the focus on sustainable infrastructure, especially smes in the area of financing, but also in the area of equity, as well as research, development and digitisation, it will certainly be possible to achieve a great leverage effect and that the 32.6 million more than tenfold will be summarily an important step for our companies to survive this terrible pandemic economically.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner. the coronavirus pandemic has brought two key issues to our attention in a very dramatic way: first, that the european union's role in health and its competence in tackling health crises are still massively under construction; and second, that the best response to pandemics is a strong, shared public health system. health policy must once again be cautious. too many icu beds, even if they're not being used, can't be a fault in the system. on the contrary, our response must be a strong health union in europe, and for that, good financial resources are essential. in this context, it was important to us that parliament really fought for an increase in the common budget by 3.4 billion, and now there is 5.1 billion available for this programme. but it is also clear that in the future there will be no more austerity and cuts in health care.
in writing. all citizens living in the eu have the right to independent information. it is our duty as members of parliament to defend this right at european level when the protection mechanisms at national level are being eroded. access to truthful facts and information that provide security and strengthen cohesion is essential for democracy and society. only if the media is independent and can therefore also criticize the government and its actions is its important control function guaranteed. freedom of the press, media pluralism, independence and protection of journalists are the essential prerequisites for a democratic society, as every eu member state sees itself. we must act now before other countries, like hungary, poland and slovenia, are invited by the inaction of the european institutions to shape their national media landscape according to their own ideas. governments must not use the media as their mouthpiece, either directly or indirectly. the eu must therefore ensure that funds from the reconstruction fund are not misused by governments to expand their own control over the national media landscape. this is also the case with infringement proceedings.
the commission has already done so. in 2008, the geo-blocking regulation came into force, but major obstacles still remain. many consumers fail to use online services either at their place of residence or at the place of payment or due to redirections in the registration process. these artificial borders, which are also used by companies on purpose, are very harmful here. streaming services are generally excluded, but they're especially popular right now, and they're often blocked here. i think that the commission has a duty to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the subject. it needs an end to these unfair barriers that happen through geoblocking. and not just in online commerce, but also in audiovisual services, in video and in gaming. and you have to do it fast.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. yes, 2022 will be crucial to how we manage the recovery from this health and economic crisis. the first priority must of course be the creation and safeguarding of jobs. this can only be done through investment in research and development, and the additional €4 billion for horizon europe from nextgenerationeu is an important building block for this. research and development and digitisation are also the prerequisites for the success of the green deal. this is why the full support of the just transition fund, the connecting europe facility and the digital europe programme is also essential for our businesses. the committee on industry, research and energy will of course do everything possible to ensure that the funds agreed in the multiannual financial framework are also fully reflected in the annual programmes, because only by making smart investments will we be able to achieve reconstruction. this means, in plain language, jobs and quality of life for our citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. air pollution is one of the biggest environmental health risks in europe. some 400 000 premature deaths are attributed to it each year. every single one of them is one too many. unfortunately, there is still a serious gap between the current state of our air and the eu's air quality targets. the lack of implementation of eu air quality standards in many member states is a major issue. and here we are asking for speedier sanctions. there are currently 31 infringement procedures against 18 member states in connection with the implementation of the air quality directive. some of these proceedings have been pending since 2009. i therefore welcome this really ambitious report, which is a very important step in the right direction, and i very much hope that it will be clearly confirmed in the vote in plenary tomorrow.
in writing. turkey's withdrawal from the istanbul convention is a dramatic step backwards for turkish society and absolutely incomprehensible. the basis of trust in the turkish government is therefore becoming increasingly thin. on the one hand, the eu is promised cooperation in the implementation of human rights directives, on the other, president erdoğan is turning his back on us by withdrawing from the convention. religious and cultural traditions must never stand in the way of protecting women from violence. especially during the covid-19 pandemic, it has been shown that women are even more vulnerable because of it. all violent crimes must be prosecuted! while it remains important to maintain diplomatic dialogue with turkey, the eu must respond with appropriate severity to this behaviour. the european parliament also has a responsibility to show solidarity with the turkish civilian population and women in turkey and to find a way back to the convention with them.
the commission has already done so. the western balkans are high on the eu agenda. and it has to be at the top of the list, because the eu perspective is a very, very important signal to the people in the western balkans. but we must also send a clear signal to the eu member states that they must stop delaying and blocking - at least some countries are unfortunately doing so. a few words on the situation in kosovo: visa liberalization is the most important issue here. because the young generation in kosovo expects to be part of the european union, of the european idea, on equal terms. albin kurti, the new head of government in kosovo, needs support for his reforms, which are intended to give a perspective, to organise social development in the country and also to fight corruption. political stability is a prerequisite for a successful future for the country, but also for a successful dialogue with belgrade. nationalist sentiments are, as always, out of place here. a word on the developments in north macedonia: zoran zaev, the prime minister of the republic of north macedonia, has made tremendous progress with the neighbouring countries and in his own country and it is precisely these reforms that need our support. i think the blockade that the government in sofia is putting in place is fundamentally wrong. it is a pity that so many opportunities that bulgaria, north macedonia and europe as a whole could have are being lost. it needs - and this is my appeal - common solutions. the emphasis on history cannot be the parameters for the future. our future - also in the balkans - must be a common future, and we must work hard to achieve this, not block it.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i myself come from a farm, i was sitting on the tractor this morning and i worked our field, i worked the soil and i may have some soil under my fingernails. we are debating soil and soil protection here in the european parliament today, and i think that fits well together. it's very nice to talk about such an important topic where we have really big challenges together, like sealing the soil or how we can collectively store carbon in the soil. each member state has its own challenges here. the black peter as so often but here to blame agriculture and to present our farmers as polluters they are to blame for polluting the soil but i do not think it is right and we do not need to be pleased as agriculture. i'll tell you something, if i was sitting on the tractor myself this morning, my first concern is to protect the soil. we know what the basis is, and it is the soil that is our basis for providing the european population with the best food. that's why it's important to me that we find common solutions, that we create something together and that we don't have rules here that nobody has anything to do with.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. brexit is a big, big mistake. and who pays the price for this mistake? the weak in society. people who go to work every day and worry about their future. the price is not paid by the millionaires who have invested so much money in this brexit campaign. but you also have to take the decision into account after so many years. so today is also a day to look ahead. the european parliament votes against this tca, the trade and cooperation agreement between the european union and the united kingdom, partly because it is the best option in this situation. this post-brexit agreement is a strong foundation to mitigate the negative impact of brexit on workers, the environment and the economy and it is not the end, it is also a beginning. we are also laying the foundations for a fair relationship, which cannot be achieved without clear rules. as i said before, it is a mistake, but we must accept and respect it. so it's about damage control. and it must also be said clearly: we would have preferred closer relations as the european union, but that was not possible, because the british government and the tories were only interested in one thing: brexit at any cost. what to do with it, no one knew, and she herself - and the british government today - often did not know. i would also like to thank mr barnier, who has been leading the negotiations for so many years, mr maroš šefčovič, who is now responsible for unfreezing frozen relations, and my colleague, mrs kati piri, who has recently moved to the dutch parliament and has also been leading these negotiations on behalf of the european parliament, as well as many other colleagues from the european parliament. the work has now also laid the foundation for perhaps creating the framework conditions for a better option. and this agreement protects our own interests. it aims to create fair trade and competition between the eu and the uk. it upholds the high eu standards it upholds social standards, consumer protection standards, it respects the climate objectives of the paris agreement, and it is also a continuation of cooperation in research such as in the horizon europe programme. what's left to do? a lot of things. there is a lot of room for improvement, and for millions of britons and for thousands, tens of thousands of europeans living in the uk, brexit means that they have enormous anxiety and uncertainty. the french fisherman, the polish student studying in the uk, the british band who may want to perform in europe, the german start-up that wants to do collaborations - all of them are threatened and worried about their livelihoods by brexit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a partnership only works if both parties also stick to the agreements. we are seeing this in northern ireland, where brexit - this mistake - is now also manifesting itself in violence. it is very regrettable and it is our duty to see that this northern ireland peace agreement continues to exist and to remain a reality. we in the european parliament - and i am grateful to the president of the commission for this - want to be very clear about our role in this process: to be vigilant, to watch and to be the voice of the citizens of europe in the coming years also in the implementation and implementation. i think it is very important that these interests of the citizens, also on both sides of the channel, should be taken into account. in the end this cannot be stressed enough. brexit is a historic mistake. it was pushed through by irresponsible nationalism based on false promises and short-sightedness. brexit is bad for britain and brexit is bad for europe. the price is not paid by the conservative millionaires, but by the most vulnerable people in our society - the unskilled workers, the single parents, the people who deliver our parcels and our food. and our message must be for them: we haven't forgotten about you, it's not over, we want to see each other again. the united kingdom is part of europe, and its future place, and the place of the people of the united kingdom, will be among friends in the european union. now, ladies and gentlemen, we have to see that this too becomes a reality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. brexit has now finally passed, and i do not want to hide at this point that i am very, very sorry about britain's departure from the eu. the uk is not only one of the eu's largest trading partners, it is also a european country with a long tradition of democracy and freedom. the fact that the uk has chosen the path of leaving the eu is unfortunately also the result of continued violations of the principle of subsidiarity, of increasing centralisation in the eu and, not least, of an irresponsible policy of opening up the eu's borders, and in particular that of individual eu member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. during the brexit negotiations, and i say this here, very clearly: during the brexit negotiations, this relationship has also been greatly affected by the eu's actions and has suffered greatly. the impression has been created that the eu is seeking to punish the british for their democratic vote, as it were, and at the same time to deter imitators. from this perspective, the eu must immediately step back and see the uk as an important and good partner again. it is not helpful to blame the british for lack of compliance and suchlike, as is happening here today. but every crisis also brings opportunities, and so it is time for the eu to finally learn from the british vote and to think about internal reforms. this is particularly true of the constant expansion of eu influence at the expense of the member states. this is not only contrary to the principle of subsidiarity; the eu's policy of 'free trade' is also increasingly alienating the eu from its citizens. a second lesson to be learned from brexit is that effective border protection - unlike the eu commission's plans for a new migration and immigration pact - is vital to the survival of the eu. in conclusion, if you are wondering why the vaccination campaign is working well in the uk, for example, while the eu is in a state of complete vaccination chaos, it is mainly because of priorities. vaccine procurement and disease control - these were the priorities in the uk. the eu's top priorities have been the reallocation of funds and the expansion of the debt union. no one needs to wonder.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you commissioner, brexit is a game that has turned the debate upside down in recent years. he twisted it because we weren't ready. nothing like this had ever happened before, and so we found ourselves lacking not only the technical tools to deal with it properly, but also the political culture. why is that? because the origin of this challenge is a wrong origin: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept it. the debate has seen the strangest figures alternate, the figure of the politician taking advantage of the exasperation of the detail. he is the most depressing figure to come out of this debate. fortunately, we have an agreement. fortunately, we have an agreement which respects the history of relations between the european union and britain. fortunately, we do not have a violent rupture of what has never been disunited. it is a pity that in this agreement, as some colleagues have said before me, one of the central points that has historically represented the positive relationship between the european union and britain is not welcomed, namely that foreign policy, that defence policy, that capacity to protect the cradle of western culture, which has made europe great not only but the world, and that through defence and europe understood as a political and geopolitical unit we could have put in an agreement which, fortunately, we have, which we will defend and which justifies the effort we are making in this place to represent all european citizens.
before we continue the debate, i shall open the first round of votes today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. as you all know, the same voting procedure will be used as in the previous rounds. all votes are by roll call and i declare the first round of voting open today. the vote will take place at 2.15 p.m. and the results of this round will be announced at 7 p.m.
we now continue our joint debate on the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement and the outcome of the eu-uk negotiations.
mr president, we have failed. a response to failure. i shall vote for it anyway, because the alternatives to this agreement are so odious that we cannot imagine for a single moment not taking responsibility for them. but it will be more difficult to assume our responsibilities in the face of complex and worrying situations in the world. i am thinking in particular of security, health, climate change, where we need all of us and our allies to make the european union's position in the world count. to do this we need a common understanding of the major phenomena affecting our planet, and i invite the united kingdom, with its large proportion of the population still adhering to the european idea, to help us in this respect. i think we have to do it for our own good, unless we want to play in the second division, which would be fatal. so we need to get back on track, and we need to do it now.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for being with us today. i intend to support this agreement. it brings clarity and it’s important to have an agreement in place and the structures that are needed for citizens and for business operators on all sides to get on with things. it’s absolutely so much better than a no—deal situation. the term peace and prosperity on the island of ireland has been used by quite a number of speakers this morning and it is really important because without peace you won’t get prosperity, you won’t have investment and you won’t be sending a message to young people that this is a place where you can put down your roots and settle and look forward to a long, happy and contented life. ireland is really important and the protocol there on the island of ireland is so important to protect and i thank all those who are involved in ensuring that we have a resolution that recognises the importance of the island of ireland. the good friday agreement, voted on in 1998, was voted by the people of ireland. it’s not an agreement between two member states, it’s a referendum of the people, it’s a statement that they want to see a united ireland and they want to get on and live side by side and it is so important that it is protected and supervised by both governments: the uk and ireland government and now by extension the european union as well. now, there will be difficulties – i absolutely understand that, we’re experiencing them now – but the most important thing is that we engage in dialogue and i acknowledge, commissioner, that you are engaging with mr frost and that there are issues on the table, but without dialogue we can’t make progress. so, i respect the rights of the uk absolutely to leave. i think we ourselves need to examine why they did leave, who’s right, who’s wrong. i think we’re absolutely right, but we need to explain that as well to our citizens. and the conference on the future of europe that we’re now embarking on is a very important place, it’s not just a statement, it’s really important that we listen to our citizens from the bottom up and not from the top down.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate commissioner barnier and his team on the excellent work they have done, and also the members of the parliament's working party. i would also like to wish our vice-president šefčovič well. we are facing a historic moment, culminating in a historic mistake, brexit, from which we must learn so as not to repeat the mistakes. the disadvantages of being outside the european union club will no doubt become increasingly apparent to uk citizens. today we are voting on the basis on which to build a strong future relationship with the united kingdom, which must behave as an ally, respecting and always delivering on what has been agreed. that is why the implementation of the agreement and the democratic monitoring role of this parliament are essential. the european union and the united kingdom have much more in common than they have in common, and that is why i welcome the agreement reached, although i regret that the boris johnson government did not want to include a chapter on foreign and defence policy and decided to exclude citizens from the benefits of erasmus. i would also like to stress the broad consensus reached by the political groups in this house, both on the consent and on the text of the resolution. we have a lot of work to do, mr. šefčovič. i wish you the best. it is now time to look ahead and work together with the united kingdom to learn together how to manage the new relationship.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. brexit is an end; the united states of europe is the beginning of the future - a determined, innovative, courageous and free european union, which will stand up for its place in the world, which will take up the fight against climate change and win. the big lesson we have to learn from brexit, i think, is about the responsibility of individual politicians. the european union is a democratic country, but it is also a democratic country, and it is a democratic country, and it is a democratic country. it says the destruction of commonly-earned wealth. the next chapter in european history must be marked by great common progress, not by small-scale regressions towards a united states of europe!
in writing. the values on which the union is founded are respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities.this is stated in article 2 of the treaty on european union. but this treaty itself will be worthless unless we are prepared to actively defend these values. that is why i voted for the european agenda on rights and values today. it aims to strengthen the rights of vulnerable people. it is therefore high time that this was also concretely implemented in european migration policy. a rights and values programme can only have an impact if the eu's migration agreements with third countries are also based on european values. the eu's migration policy is moving further and further away from our basic values and is blind to human rights abuses at our borders. the implementation of a values programme can only be considered successful if it also protects the fundamental rights of those seeking asylum in the eu. a shared set of values and culture only makes us a better society if we are willing to share them. we also have to deal with those who come to us in the eu in the hope of protection and security.
the commission has already done so. i shall concentrate my remarks on this very important aspect of european cooperation, because in practice, when it comes to issues which often cross borders, such as corruption, tax evasion or the search for missing children, a member state alone often does not go far enough. so it only works together. the justice programme therefore facilitates, among other things, europe-wide exchanges between members of the judiciary, from judges to court staff, interpreters, prison staff and experts from ngos. parliament has succeeded in making this programme really available to a wide range of people. this creates mutual understanding and thus strengthens cooperation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of judicial cooperation, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
i have to say, madam president, mr. reynders, do you know this yellow document? this is the who's international vaccination passport, and since i'm a frequent traveler, i always carry it with me. every vaccination is accurately documented -- date, doctor, vaccine load, 100 percent traceable to every authority in the world. if i'm going to board a plane today, i'm going to need a current covid test or proof of a previous illness. everything you want to reinvent now, it already exists, it's already used and it works. so why this new eu green passport? vaccination status or even a past covid illness has very little bearing on a person's infectivity. so that can't be the reason. what good is a green passport to the citizen? it is not good for the citizen, but it is very good for the states. for the states, it will bring more control of the citizens, because the introduction of such a passport only makes sense in combination with tight controls. it's also not surprising that this very type of citizen surveillance comes from authoritarian china. it is also important to remember that this is highly sensitive, personal, private data which the citizen must provide and where he does not even know who has access to it. so for privacy reasons, this is all more than problematic. and this development that more and more restrictive measures such as lockdowns or control of citizens under the guise of fighting the pandemic, that all such restrictive measures are practically taken by authoritarian states - and this in the oh so free and liberal west - this is a development that is highly worrying. this has nothing to do with european values, with the freedom of citizens. the green passport doesn't bring more freedom. the green pass only gives you more control.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the life programme is a key instrument of european environmental and climate policy, and since 1992 it has funded more than 4 500 projects. i am pleased that the new life programme and its objectives are extremely ambitious - more ambitious than ever. it's about protecting our nature, it's about more biodiversity, it's about fighting climate change, and it's about more renewable energy. the new life programme is also simpler, which is essential for the management of the regions of europe. the budget includes eur 3.5 billion for environmental activities and another eur 1.9 billion for climate action, with up to 75% of the funding for specific projects. eur 5.4 billion for a future worth living a success in which the european parliament played a key role.
i have to say, madam president, the energy system of tomorrow must and will look completely different from what we know today. hydrogen will play a very important role in this transformation. and this is not just about decarbonising energy-intensive sectors - which we talk about a lot - but also about using it as an energy storage medium, because it can store large amounts of energy over a long period of time and also transport it over longer distances. and while the race for the most efficient technologies is on in research, we also need to invest in solutions that are already commercially viable, namely clean hydrogen from renewable energy. i am quite clear about one thing: the money of the union, the money of the european taxpayers, must no longer be used for fossil technologies. we need to make sure that every euro of funding goes into the future of the energy system instead of the past, because that's the only way we're going to achieve the goals of the green deal.
the commission has already done so. with the just transition fund, we are taking a really tangible step towards a climate-neutral europe. the reason why this just transition fund is so outstanding is that it benefits industries and their workers, but also supports the entire social fabric in the affected regions of europe. investments can be made in community and social projects such as care and elderly care facilities, energy-efficient social housing or mobility solutions and sustainable public transport. the construction of a kindergarten will be possible, as will the promotion of culture and sustainable tourism projects. the 17.5 billion euro of the fund is just the beginning, the european union must get more money into its hands. the number of regions receiving fund resources must be increased. no citizen, no region of europe, must be left behind or disadvantaged.
(the president's speech begins with the microphone off) ...more than 17 000 people have died in the mediterranean sea 17 000 people! in many debates in this house and today, the same demands have been made again and again to put an end to this dying - so far in vain. that is why i am not asking today, but only reminding you that we are talking about people and not just numbers, and we no longer need talks, but real solutions. it's about people like rehan kurdi and her sons galip and aylan, whose bodies were found on the beach by the international press, like ali mbengu, whose sporting career ended in a cruel way at the age of 22, like safi siyap, who never lived to see her second birthday because she drowned off lesbos before, like midour mohamed, whose boat never reached the spanish coast he was 29 , like darin, didar, shiar, amina and dijwar rashid five siblings all under the age of 13 when they died at the gates of europe. 17,000 people. i'd need days to read that list.
the commission has already done so. the health and social consequences of climate change and environmental degradation are becoming more and more severe. so a global guarantee of human rights and fundamental freedoms depends not only on how we treat each other as human beings, but also on how we respect and preserve our common habitat. it is therefore all the more important that we take seriously the risks of climate change and the impact on our ecosystems, including from the point of view of the most vulnerable groups, and that we protect those who are particularly committed to environmental protection. the conservation of biodiversity and environmental quality is not just a clever idea, it is one of our fundamental duties. climate agreements must therefore recognise a clean and healthy environment as a human right. and now action must follow in the form of a binding supply chain law, so that responsibility for man and nature is no longer left to chance but becomes a legal obligation.
the commission has already done so. every euro that will come out of creative europe will be well spent and well spent. this is what europe's cultural and creative people will do. together we will do everything we can to double the budget for creative europe in the next multiannual financial framework, because this programme will show clearly and unequivocally what it is capable of achieving and moving, and that any budget increase is more than justified, just after this serious crisis. this sector is one of the most affected by the pandemic. the closure of all cultural institutions and the cancellation of events have led to a serious existential crisis for millions of workers in this sector and for many more who depend on it indirectly. creative europe is the only direct support programme for culture in the european union, which is and should be a cultural community. we members of parliament, and especially those from the committee on culture, have been able to achieve a significant increase in the budget of at least 36% through our persistence. creative europe can provide much-needed perspectives for many stakeholders and stands for a europe of diversity.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's pharmaceutical industry is not subject to the same restrictions as the pharmaceutical industry. especially in poor countries, there is a lack of vaccines, that's obvious. we therefore need high-quality vaccines. this can only happen - and experts agree - in the present producing countries. and the biden administration in the us must end its blockade and export ban policy, because that includes vaccines. the two leading mrna manufacturers will produce about four billion doses this year and six billion next year, and they will also supply them at reduced prices to developing countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. so by the middle of next year, we'll have enough vaccine for the whole world. but it will take just as long to ramp up vaccine production in developing countries if we immediately waive trips, if we immediately lift at least some of the patent protection. and even then, it is doubtful that developing countries can produce high-quality vaccines in sufficient quantities in such a short time. so there is nothing to be gained by granting patents - neither time nor additional vaccines. i wonder what is behind this demand, which is being put forward so massively by the left. it's probably another attack on property, specifically in this case intellectual property, on years of successful research that may also help us break through in the fight against cancer. so it is clear to me that even if in the last phase of development government funding has advanced research, that is no reason to cancel patents and interfere with property rights now. what we really need is more licensing by manufacturers and partnerships with new manufacturing countries. we should be talking about this, not expropriation.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic is a challenge for us both in terms of health and social policy. with the common goal of defeating the pandemic and ensuring normalcy and security for all eu citizens as soon as possible, patents and intellectual property protection are increasingly becoming obstacles in our way. the distribution of equipment, medicines and vaccines creates inequalities that we could easily avoid. we cannot leave the supply of essential medical goods to monopolistic market forces. the progress in covid-19 vaccine research is not solely due to the innovative power of individual manufacturers, but largely due to public funding and collective efforts. the european taxpayers have thus helped to make the rapid breakthrough in research possible. the global distribution of vaccines is also being constrained by increasing bilateral competition between producers in rich countries. it is not the time for market competition and patent protection, but for solidarity and cohesion! we therefore believe that a waiver of pandemic-related patents is a safe and fair step towards ending the pandemic.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is not a self-service shop, nor is it a cow to be milked. regional policy is at the heart of the european union and its clear aim is to eliminate regional, economic and social disparities in europe, leaving no citizen, no region behind. the money must go where it is needed most: to the people on the ground in our regions. however, the czech scandal surrounding prime minister babiš and his corporation is a stark illustration of how individuals can seek to enrich themselves and expand their power and influence. the results of the studies of the complex, opaque network around agrofert are clear: the company and thus prime minister babiš have unlawfully received eu regional aid. but that is only part of the story: his company continues to receive millions in agricultural subsidies, and at the same time mr babiš decides on the new european agricultural policy. this is incompatible! the european union must not be exploited, nor must it be allowed to be exploited.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. the task of the fra, based in vienna, is to ensure that eu law is in conformity with fundamental rights and that it is implemented in the member states. the importance of such an agency is not only apparent in times of crisis, because fundamental rights are never more or less important, but must be defended again and again. we therefore want to support and strengthen the fra agency, which is doing exactly that with its work, by its regulation. the report is now before this house for a vote. i was allowed to contribute to the motion as a shadow rapporteur for my group. i would like to thank rapporteur lukas mandl and his colleagues for the good cooperation. in the report itself we are now formulating measures to enable the agency to take full responsibility for all eu responsibilities on its own initiative in the future. first, the shortcoming that the agency is responsible for the eu area but not for the respect and implementation of eu human rights law in eu foreign and security policy must be addressed. secondly, we want the agency's remit to include the fundamentally sensitive area of the so-called third pillar, namely cooperation in the fields of justice and home affairs. it is also clear that there is a need for an independent institution to monitor fundamental rights in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. and thirdly, we want to give the agency explicit competence in the context of sanctions procedures for threatening or violating the rule of law within the meaning of article 7 of the eu treaty. we have done our homework as the european parliament today. the ball is now in the council's court. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it is not only the one blocking member state that has been affected, but above all all all all those who have an interest in a common europe, a europe of fundamental rights.
the commission has already done so. the importance of genuine protection of fundamental rights for the citizens of the eu member states has been clearly demonstrated over the past year. many eu citizens have been affected by massive restrictions on their fundamental rights, and many eu citizens will continue to suffer the consequences of these fundamental rights violations if we can gradually return to normalcy. i am thinking of all those who have been restricted in the exercise of their occupational activity and who are facing economically nothing. i am thinking here of the millions of children and young people who have been denied the opportunity to receive a proper education and to have social contact. but i had not noticed that the eu fundamental rights agency had been working to protect the rights of these citizens. unfortunately, this is not surprising when one looks at the range of activities of this agency. the fundamental rights of the average european citizen are obviously not worth protecting for the fundamental rights agency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the agency for fundamental rights has restricted itself to the protection of migrants and members of any eastern european cultural and religious communities, and it is hard to speak of a genuine agency for fundamental rights for all europeans. it is more a pro-migration lobbying organization under a false name, a false flag organization. the idea of extending the mandate of this particular agency to include the surveillance of external border controls is a dangerous threat. the only thing that will remain is to prevent effective external border controls and to open the borders to everyone. we need a real agency for fundamental rights in europe, but the existing agency is not doing its job.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is finally getting going and putting new rules in place for the digital world, and we really have no time to lose. while technologies have evolved at a truly rapid pace in recent years, digital services and marketplaces have to work with european rules dating back to the year 2000. and if we go back a little bit, that was the time when the shit was hot online, uboot.com -- that's something only the older millennials would know about -- and myspace didn't even exist at that time. we need regulations that enable innovation, but also have answers to issues like online hate, geo-blocking, or even the overwhelming power of google, amazon, facebook and others. and for artificial intelligence, for example, we still lack any guidelines or regulations at all. something has to happen, and one thing is clear: the future is not waiting for us.
the commission has already done so. environmental factors account for one in eight deaths in the eu and one in seven worldwide. so it's high time we changed that. it is not possible for companies operating in europe, inside and outside the union, to destroy the environment and then make a profit from it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. clear rules are therefore needed to prevent, remedy and punish damage to the environment caused by companies. because even the best rules are useless if we cannot enforce them. the eu must provide a clear legal framework for all this that creates security for businesses and the commission and member states must promote law enforcement and judicial authorities and support those who have been harmed. all this protects consumers and, most importantly, saves lives.
member of the commission. – madam president, today’s adoption of the regulation establishing the european cybersecurity competence centre and network is an important milestone in our collective journey to enhance our digital sovereignty by improving eu digital capabilities and cyber—resilience. the centre is europe’s new framework to support innovation and industrial policy and cybersecurity. this ecosystem will strengthen the capacities of the cybersecurity technology community, support the resilience of our economy and society from cyberattacks, maintain research excellence and reinforce the competitiveness of eu industry in this field. the centre will develop and implement – with member states, industry and the academic community – a common agenda for technology development and for its wide deployment in areas of public interest and in businesses, in particular for smes. on behalf of the commission i congratulate and thank rasmus andresen as the rapporteur, and his shadow rapporteurs, as well as the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for their work in reaching an agreement. the negotiations were challenging at times, but we achieved a compromise that can fulfil the objective. a strategic advisory group will ensure that all stakeholders will be represented in the decision—making priorities. the voting rules of the governing board with member states allow the commission to fulfil its responsibilities under the treaties for the union budget on the financial contributions by member states, even if they remain voluntary and we would have wished to see more commitment. i am convinced that this mechanism will incentivise investment by member states and industry in line with the regulation setting up the horizon europe and digital europe programmes. last, but not least, it was agreed that the centre should be located in bucharest. following the agreement in december, the commission has already started the work on setting up the centre and the network. the first informal governing board with member states and the european union agency for cybersecurity (enisa) took place on 16 april. until the centre reaches financial autonomy, the commission will act on its behalf. we are prepared to implement the new mff programmes. this new ecosystem and investment in cybersecurity technology is one cornerstone of our new cybersecurity strategy. another is the commission proposal on a revised nis directive, nis ii. even if it is not the debate of today, let me say just a few words on this. the second version of the nis directive aims to reduce inconsistencies across the internal market by aligning scope, security and incident—reporting requirements, national supervision and enforcement and the capabilities of competent authorities. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the rapporteur, bart groothuis, for the engagement in the discussions on this proposal. the commission looks forward to the report and to continue working on these files. honourable members, the eu has the unique opportunity to pool its assets to advance its industrial strategy and leadership in digital technologies and cybersecurity across the digital supply chain, in line with our values and priorities. you can count on the commission to make sure that the cybersecurity competence centre provides all the necessary impetus to increase our resilience to cyberattacks.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, we are at a time of development of measures in relation to cybersecurity, where this european cybersecurity competence centre will play a key role. the first thing i would like to do, however, is to thank the rapporteur and the alternative rapporteurs for the facilities and the availability they have shown at all times so that, during the parliamentary process, we have managed to reach an agreement in a rather record time - taking into account the conditions of this parliamentary term - and have been able, thanks to that, to enter into negotiations with the council, which have been complex - as has been said - but which have come to a successful conclusion. in short, this european cybersecurity competence centre has a dimension whose great value, in my view, must be recognized and highlighted, which is that it is related to industry. european industry is still a major asset for the european union, for our economy; it is still highly competitive globally - particularly the manufacturing industry, which is being driven by the automobile industry - and we must put all the resources into this area to make it possible - in this case, in the field of cybersecurity - for our industry to have the most advanced means, the most advanced cybersecurity technologies, to strengthen its role as the backbone and decisive axis of the european economy. that is the emphasis i wanted to put here tonight, in addition to all that the rapporteur and commissioner gentiloni have said.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we often talk about the european union's need to focus more on the big issues, and the member states in particular are happy to be at the forefront of this framing. the cybersecurity competence centre is about that big question. the threat is more than just serious. it's about the integrity of our public infrastructure, our institutions, our democracy. it is a question of the safety of our people and of our companies, and the rapporteur, mr andresen, has made a very strong point about this at the beginning. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation. how can we pool resources? how can we share know-how? how can we bring our european research community together? how do we bring this state-of-the-art research into the business? it is a success that the competence centre has now finally come into being as a central research hub, also as a complement to enisa. we are also able to give the national contact points the power to help applicants with the bureaucracy. but what the member states have done to this whole thing is more than shameful, in my view. we want to have an opinion on everything, we want to be involved in decision-making everywhere, we want to be the ones who decide everything. but when it comes to who is going to pay for the whole thing, you completely avoid responsibility and say, more or less, that the commission should scrape together a budget here and there and find it. we cannot answer the big questions in europe in this way. the cybersecurity competence centre will take european cybersecurity research a major step forward. but with a decent rather than such a shameless participation of the member states we would have gone a few steps further. the council is a preventative institution and it must be brought to an end once and for all.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a member of this house and a longtime entrepreneur in the it industry, i am frankly not very enthusiastic about the ongoing no-fish-no-meat situation. while we have worked hard and vigorously to implement the introduction of the general data protection regulation within europe, the legal bases have been breaking down outside the european union. the safe harbor agreement was overturned, and then a year ago, the successor, privacy shield. the only thing left is that our companies have to take the risk again and the potential shades of gray no longer fit on a color map. at the same time, any citizen who, for example in a small company, properly complies with the gdpr knows that his activities on the internet, his personal data outside europe can be intercepted by intelligence services and third countries. max schrems has now demonstrated this successfully twice. i expect the commission to present not only 82 legislative proposals to decarbonise transport by 2024, but also an agreement that will provide legal certainty to our businesses and protect the data of our citizens externally as well as within the european union.
madam president! max schrems has been fighting for data protection for years. he cannot speak for himself, so i am his spokesman today as a member of parliament in the best sense, and i identify with his message 100 per cent. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report. we see that the gdpr is not being enforced enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. in almost all cases, we have not reached a decision after three years. the authorities are rejecting complaints in a row without investigating. the basic rights of citizens are thus only on paper, but not in reality. i therefore want to stress today that citizens' complaints must be investigated and resolved without delay. but in the end there are probably authorities and member states who simply do not do their job. that would require a breach of contract. the gdpr is, thanks to the european parliament, european law in force, which we must and will defend. other thank you, max schrems, for your service.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. haiti is currently experiencing not just one crisis but several crises which are closely linked and are fuelling each other. the country has not yet recovered from the terrible effects of the earthquake in january 2010. on the contrary, it is sliding deeper and deeper into an existential crisis, driven by worrying political developments. as if that were not enough, the covid-19 pandemic has been sweeping through the already troubled country for over a year. violence, corruption, human rights abuses are commonplace. poverty is increasing. food insecurity has almost doubled in the last two years. some four million of the more than 11 million haitians suffer from hunger. in addition, there is a massive political crisis, characterised by a corrupt elite and their systematic abandonment of democratic and rule of law standards. elections are arbitrarily altered at their discretion. president moïse has ruled by decree since early 2020 and has disregarded the heart of a democratic society by effectively abolishing the separation of powers. we demand an end to the violence in haiti! human rights violations must stop immediately and those responsible must be held accountable. the rule of law must be restored, independent democratic structures must be established. the right of the haitian people to free, fair and transparent elections must not be denied. the european union must do everything in its power to ensure that aid reaches the people who need it most: the people who are already suffering from a lack of everything!
the commission has already done so. 99% of all enterprises in the eu are small and medium-sized enterprises. we need to choose approaches in our legislation that support smes but still protect consumers, especially in the face of the great challenges of the pandemic. for example, instead of simply exempting smes from the human rights due diligence, specific assistance should be provided to help them meet their due diligence obligations. we are helping smes and at the same time protecting people and the environment, in a balanced approach that, while protecting businesses, does not forget people. the better regulation agenda will help us to create legislation that does not burden businesses, protects people and the climate, and reduces red tape.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. better regulation was the reason i became involved in politics as an entrepreneur. this proposal from the commission is welcome from an economic policy point of view, but we cannot believe that it will automatically improve the situation for smes. i welcome the proposed enhanced communication with stakeholders, as it is about enhanced cooperation with enterprises and here especially with smes , as this group is clearly under-represented; we've heard that before. i also expect the 'one in, one out' scheme and the fit for future platform to improve the burden, to reduce the burden on smes, so that this regulatory madness finally comes to an end. the integration of strategic foresight and impact assessment into the legislative process is also essential for the european competitiveness of our companies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the european parliament, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. and remember, entrepreneurs are the only ones who create jobs, and we need a lot of them right now. let us finally put our words into action and start putting them into practice!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission is not what do you need? a tree [...] [to] measure how big and how small life as a human being is like how big and how small when you look up to the crown. these are excerpts from a poem by friederike mayröcker. she recognized the incredible greatness of nature. she died friday at the age of 96. we don't have much time left either. according to the climate clock, there are only 6 years 207 days 17 hours and a few minutes left to act effectively. man has no right to exploit the environment without restraint. "how dare we?" greta thunberg has rightly asked. it is our great responsibility to act now. the eu biodiversity strategy can help us to achieve the recognition of a clean environment as a human right and the protection of biodiversity as a societal responsibility. because to "think [...] to dream [...] to write [...] to see [...] [we need] [...] the grass the flower [n] the sky", mayröcker writes meaningfully at the end of her poem.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am particularly pleased that, one year after the european commission presented the biodiversity strategy, we, as the european parliament, can now present our ideas here. we have had very difficult and long negotiations in the last few weeks and i would like to thank very much mr césar luena, who has led the negotiations here and has really brought together the very different interests of the various groups, but also of the various stakeholders, the various circumstances of the regions and countries. and i'm glad that we can actually agree on most of the points. however, some ambitious strategies are needed with impact at all levels. we must now see whether all these proposed measures really have an effect, whether we can actually implement them and whether they really increase biodiversity. i am concerned, however, that we are asking too much of certain industries in too short a time. i am particularly sensitive to the issue of forestry, and it is clear to me that we can and must protect and use a forest. sustainable forestry offers a great opportunity and a small risk to contribute to climate change here. but i also think it is important that in all these measures and reduction targets we also think about the issue of food security in europe. because we cannot have europe becoming as green and sustainable as ever, but we cannot produce enough food for ourselves in europe and we have to rely on imports from third countries. and if production conditions in third countries are not respected and do not meet our standards, and this further destroys the environment, then this is not the biodiversity strategy we want. i hope that with our biodiversity strategy at home, we will be able to create this middle ground, to continue to lead europe as a frontrunner and to take our ideas with us to the rest of the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. apart from data protection, there is no consistency between the back and front of the green passport. this green passport is supposed to make it easier to travel. that's the official primary purpose or sole purpose of this green pass. but now the fact is that the freedom to travel in the eu is not affected at all by this green passport. member states can still, as they say, impose appropriate and proportionate restrictions to restrict freedom of movement - which is a good thing, because it is the only way to react quickly to regional or national circumstances. but if we also know that in the negotiations between the council and the commission it was discussed whether this certificate could be used for another year after the one provided for and whether it could even be used for other purposes - not to say misused - then we can see what is really going on. in reality, once again, this crisis is being exploited - abused - to promote unpopular developments, to promote citizen surveillance, to open doors that would have been better left closed - just like the eurobonds and the debt union. i am firmly opposed to extending this regulation to other areas. the certificate must not be used to justify the control freak of individual states or the eu as a whole. one should ask oneself in conclusion, given the evolution of the covid situation and the progress of vaccination, whether something like a green passport is even necessary. the united states is not going to do that.
in writing. every day we wait longer and do not apply the rule of law mechanism, the space for civil society and independent media shrinks. you're playing for time, commissioner. but we don't have that. the erosion of democracy that eu funds are driving in individual countries cannot simply be compensated for in retrospect by individual individuals/associations/institutions having to pay back money. irreparable damage has been done when radio stations are stripped of their broadcasting licenses and civil society is afraid to speak out for fear of dirty bucket campaigns. that is why we must act now and not wait for weeks, months or years. the rule of law regulation has been in force since 1 january 2021. i do not need to explain to you that a regulation is eu law and that all citizens, member states and eu institutions must abide by eu law. i would urge the commission to act today and to send the first written notification to potentially affected countries, as there are many concerns about rule of law violations, which the commission has already addressed in its rule of law report. we do not need to wait for the finalisation of any directives for this written communication.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is very good that we are here in parliament to talk about the end of caging. but before we consider such demands, we should look at where there are problems in the existing regulations already. in the eu, we already banned caging for laying hens in 2012. in my home country of austria, we pioneered it, and we introduced it in 2009. but i have little understanding that caging is still practiced in some eu countries. and i have even less understanding that there was support for caging in ukraine once, when it was already clear that it will not be for long. and now that these eggs are coming to us in processed foods like pasta or cake, i don't understand it anymore. what do we really need? all eu countries must comply with the standards in force. and then there are areas such as turkey fat, where there are no uniform regulations in the eu. it should be introduced. secondly, we need very clear production standards, which apply here in the eu, also for imported food. it is not possible that we still have food that is not produced to the same and really the strictest eu standards that we have. and thirdly, we need a clear indication of origin so that everyone can decide for themselves whether they would prefer to have an organic egg from their home country or a cage from ukraine. it is precisely these points that we should be putting into practice now before we really think about any further steps, because this would be a really important step to support the incomes of our farmers.
the commission has already done so. objective and qualitative reporting on what is happening in europe is a basic prerequisite for a democratic and citizen-friendly european union. euranet plus is an association of national and regional public and private broadcasters from 13 member states, broadcasting community productions in 12 languages and reaching over 15 million listeners daily. its pan-european programme makes a significant contribution to the development of the much-cited european public with manageable financial resources. we have already made clear in the cult committee, months ago, that we are in favour of continuing to finance the programme in a direct way. and the fact that there is still no solution in sight is due to the incomprehensible attitude of the commission, which, with vague and incomprehensible justifications, has ignored the political will of the european parliament, the budgetary legislator, in reply to a written question from march as well as in a letter from the commissioner in recent days and today. why does the commission ignore the fact that euranet plus is not a broadcasting company but a network of independent radio stations from several member states? in recent years there has been no change in the law in this respect, nor has the structure of euranet changed. the aid was never called into question and is now deemed to be incompatible with the law. the reference to a 2020 cost-benefit analysis is void because euranet was wrongly assessed as a broadcasting company. the comparison with euronews, which is repeatedly made, is cynical. (the president cut the speaker off) euranet is a 100% publicly funded radio network, while euronews is a private company, majority owned by egyptian and us companies. moreover, euronews is a very different kind of money, the economic and useful use of which is questionable given its reach. the commission must take note that no citizen in europe can understand that the political will of parliament is ignored. i would point out that if the commission now wants to bring all multimedia activities into competition, this is a great danger from a democratic point of view and must be firmly rejected.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. on may 19, 16-year-old ashraf, who had been sent from morocco, reached the shores of ceuta at the risk of his life by means of plastic bottles. ashraf is one of those who didn't just spend a good time at home on wednesday, as minors are supposed to do. no, ashraf and with him many other children became the means of pressure for an inhumane policy that day. this totally unacceptable incident and the consequently very difficult diplomatic situation undoubtedly require the european authorities to be particularly sensitive. a refugee suspected of being a minor must be given special protection and must not be forcibly returned. to avoid a repeat of what we witnessed in ceuta or in february 2020, when turkey suddenly declared the border open, there is only one way: guaranteeing human rights and therefore also children's rights always and without if and but.
in writing. the future of european asylum and migration policy cannot be reduced to its external dimension alone. we need proposals that go beyond the current impasse. we cannot rely on compromises aimed at satisfying states which are unwilling to cooperate without actually closing the solidarity gap with neighbouring countries, such as italy, which is always at risk of excessive pressure. the european union must act immediately to try to save the lives of people who are inexorably being lost in the attempt to cross the mediterranean. the frontline countries must have a leading role in alternative cooperation proposals and cannot be satisfied with ephemeral and temporary solutions which do not provide for solidarity and the fair sharing of responsibility between member states in the field of border controls, asylum and immigration.
in writing. – european leaders meet during the sessions of the european council to discuss current challenges of the highest importance. covid-19 pandemic has pushed many important topics to the background of the agenda and brought many challenges on the regional and global levels. together, we face new challenges related to new variants of the virus, distribution of the vaccines and usage of the recently adopted eu digital covid certificate. these topics should be addressed during the meeting of the european council in june. at the same time, we shall not remain hesitant and address upcoming long-term challenges. we need to be prepared for the potential future pandemics and better protection of the internal market. due to the negative impact of the pandemic on the economic prosperity of the european union, we also should also use the potential of the next generation eu programme and support the member states in the initiatives to adapt to digital and climate transitions.
in writing. week after week, month after month, year after year, people lose their lives trying to cross the mediterranean. this is a tragedy caused by the misguided european asylum and migration policy. we will not save anyone by closing our borders and shutting ourselves off! sea rescue has been proven to be no pull factor for flight or migration! the efforts of the malta declaration were from the outset aimed solely at curbing migration flows. four years later, we haven't moved an inch. the negotiations on the 'new pact on asylum and migration' are stagnating, the views are exclusively eurocentric and do not take into account the needs of those seeking protection from us. if we now take up again the ideas of the malta declaration, we will end up going round in circles. our goal must be to provide protection and opportunities to people who come to us, not to facilitate further pushbacks or agreements with third countries like libya, where there is evidence of detaining and torturing refugees in camps. so we need legal escape routes, human rights-based and individual asylum procedures, a functioning sea rescue and ways and means of legal labour migration and all this without further delay. that is what would put an end to smuggling.
the next item is the commission statement on the future of relations between the european union and switzerland (2021/2740 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, on 26 may the swiss federal council took the decision to terminate the negotiations on an institutional framework agreement between the eu and switzerland. we regret this decision. the conclusion of this agreement was a priority for the european union. let me start, therefore, by putting things in perspective. this may help to better grasp the issue and the challenge ahead of us. the eu and switzerland are more than just neighbours. switzerland is an important partner, both economically as our fourth-largest trading partner, and politically, given our shared values. on a daily basis, the free movement of people and goods in particular nurtures a privileged relationship between us. let me give you a few figures in that respect. in 2020, about 1.5 million eu citizens were living in switzerland and around 400 000 swiss were living in the eu. out of switzerland’s total workforce of around five million people, some 25% were eu citizens. some 350 000 of our citizens cross the border daily to work in switzerland. in parallel, our economic relationships are flourishing. the eu is switzerland’s largest trading partner by far. switzerland trades more with the neighbouring regions in austria, germany, france and italy, around eur 80 billion per year than with the bric countries, which is around 63 billion per year. switzerland trades more with the grand est, bourgogne, franche—comté, auvergne, rhône-alpes than with japan, and switzerland trades more with baden-württemberg and bavaria than with china. these figures underline how much switzerland benefits from this privileged access. according to its own data switzerland gains an estimated eur 18-27 billion per year from its bilateral relations with the european union. but despite this deep economic and social integration, there is no overarching framework governing swiss participation in the internal market. there are no provisions to ensure a level playing field. there are, for example, no provisions for state aid rules, and beyond that there is no satisfactory dispute settlement mechanism ensuring an adequate implementation of our 120 bilateral agreements. also contrary to the example of the states which are part of both the eea and efta – norway, iceland and liechtenstein – there is no compulsory and regular financial contribution from switzerland to the eu cohesion policy. the last and so far only financial payment from switzerland dates back to 2012, a whole financial framework cycle ago. moreover, as time passes, our bilateral agreements are ageing. the eu and switzerland free trade agreement was concluded 50 years ago, and the package of bilateral i and ii agreements was concluded almost 20 years ago. hence, without any modernisation of these agreements our relations are inevitably eroding over time. it is precisely for all these reasons that the conclusion of an institutional agreement was considered a priority. this was about establishing a level playing field. this is a matter of fairness and integrity of our single market. anyone operating on the eu single market must face the same rules and obligations. against this background, our commitment has been irreproachable. president juncker and president von der leyen have spoken more than 25 times to six swiss presidents. the eu has demonstrated a high level of understanding for the political constraints in switzerland and showed a willingness to compromise. the list is long: from a dispute settlement mechanism based on an arbitral tribunal and not on the european court of justice only, through a two-pillar system for state aid, and not only the eu rules, to a protocol dedicated to the protection of the swiss labour market. allow me to emphasise here that high levels of social protection and full respect of the principle of equal pay for equal work are as important for the eu as they are for switzerland. we also agreed to limit the scope of the agreement to five existing agreements although there are 120 of them, and we agreed not to enshrine in the agreement itself legally binding provisions on the swiss financial contribution to the eu cohesion policy, only a joint political declaration, but still recalling that this contribution is a natural and fair consequence of participating in the single market. in november 2018 we thought we had found a balanced solution for both parties. however, the swiss government in june 2019 announced that it needed clarifications on three issues: on state aid, on the protection of wages in switzerland, and on the free movement of persons. we had immediately offered to work on these issues, but our swiss friends needed some time. in january this year, discussions restarted and we re-engaged constructively by making concrete and robust proposals to address these concerns. on 23 april when meeting the swiss president, guy parmelin, president von der leyen was of the firm opinion that a deal was possible provided that both sides showed flexibility, but our offers were not picked up and finally on 26 may the swiss federal council took the decision to terminate the negotiations on an institutional framework agreement with us. this is not our choice and we can only regret this decision. the solution to the difficulties is gone, but problems remain. we therefore need to reflect collectively on how we can move forward and ensure that our bilateral relationship continues to flourish while ensuring a fair balance of rights and obligations. for this we need time to carefully review our agreements with switzerland. we should identify the problems precisely and find solutions. we are determined to find the best way possible for the bilateral relationship with switzerland to work most effectively.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we deeply regret that the swiss federal council has cancelled the framework agreement with the european union after seven years of intensive negotiations. we have to take note of it, even if the manner was not particularly friendly. switzerland is a sovereign state in the heart of europe and in the heart of the european union. the neighbouring countries send many well-trained workers, who do good work in hospitals and factories in switzerland - you mentioned that, mr vice-president. we are aware of the close and good cooperation between switzerland and the european union, which should be even stronger in the future. we therefore follow public opinion in switzerland and see the result of the vote on the so-called limitation initiative as an important indication that the swiss people very much want to stick to the bilateral path with the european union. i think that many swiss people do not fully understand why the framework agreement has now been cancelled by the federal council. we should now make our guiding european principles clear together. there is no alternative to the principle of non-discrimination. all citizens participating in the single market have equal rights. agreements with the european union apply to all member states, including those which have joined later. and we in europe also agree that disputes must be dealt with by the courts if they are based on objective rules. in this context, mr president, the swiss delegation in this house, together with the members of the swiss national council, regretted that the negotiations had been terminated. we are not going to let the citizens suffer because of this unfortunate decision. therefore, switzerland should be offered a multiprogramming agreement for research and training on the basis of the full implementation of existing agreements such as the agreement on free movement of persons. and in case the swiss government really wants to leave the deadlock and continue on the bilateral path, we need to find a new name that is more attractive in the public debate better cooperation agreement would be a good start. that could include post-covid-19 healthcare collaboration.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. switzerland is in the centre of europe, surrounded by the european union, and that is precisely why the door must remain open for switzerland's european integration. we have a lot in common. it is not just the love of the mountains, of skiing or of chocolate, but also the fact that 1.5 million eu citizens live in switzerland and we have intense economic and social relations. it is therefore particularly regrettable that the swiss federal council - that is, the swiss government - has abandoned the negotiations on the framework agreement after seven difficult years of negotiations. this has lost an opportunity for even closer or fairer, better relations between the eu and switzerland. however, the mutual blame-placing is not going to get us anywhere. the existing treaties are outdated and no longer capable of providing any useful answers to the questions of today or tomorrow. and instead of domestic tactics, the interests of the citizens must be the focus. the two sides - the european union and switzerland - must now come together and hopefully return to the negotiating table soon. the eu, ladies and gentlemen, is always ready to do so.
and now, ladies and gentlemen, before we continue our debates, i should like to open today's voting period. we shall therefore vote on the dossiers as indicated in the agenda and the voting period will be from 5 p.m. to 6.15 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods and therefore all votes will be cast by roll-call. as you know, explanations of vote may be submitted in writing and, exceptionally, explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. i therefore declare the voting period open. this means you can vote until 6.15 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced at 8.30 p.m.
we now return to the debate on the future of relations between the european union and switzerland (2021/2740 (rsp)).
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not the eu's links with switzerland are very diverse and close, and it would be difficult to list all the relevant elements at this stage there are over 120 agreements governing our complex relationship. the question is, what does that actually mean in practice? in reality, it is said that thousands of vorarlbergers commute to the other side of the rhine every day. it means that countless italian, german and french citizens live and work in switzerland. this means that helvetic companies make almost half of their imports and exports with the european union. we have research agreements. we have exchange students. we have a lot of cultural similarities. i was even more shocked when the swiss federal council, after seven years of negotiations on the institutional framework agreement, suddenly closed its doors. i think it is clear to both sides that we need to update our common treaties to finally resolve the open questions that we have been carrying around for years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. switzerland and the union must remain close partners. this is in the interests of all citizens of the european union, but also of switzerland. our doors are open. it is now up to switzerland to open up its doors again.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done. today we report on the eib's financial activity in 2019 - a time when the world was still in its infancy and europe was on a very good economic path. eib loan signatures amounted to 63 billion, 14% more than in the previous year. but also in the area of sustainability, the eib has already developed and defined a clear strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it shows that common sense and operational reality and knowledge of the current state of research and development are ignored. this is annoying to businessmen, but it is also annoying to citizens. the green deal requires entrepreneurship, it requires research and development, and that is why this area should be given top priority in this report too, rather than the left-wing prohibitionist policy. the epp, as the voice of reason in this parliament, will continue to work to ensure that access to finance is broadly available to our companies, that transparency requirements are designed in such a way that they do not lead to envy debates on the ground and, as a result, creative companies are no longer interested in investing, and that transitional solutions such as gas continue to be supported. sustainability also means that the transformation succeeds and that the employment and competitiveness of the european economy are also safeguarded in the face of change.
in writing. the slovenian presidency of the council promises to break the deadlock in the talks on the new pact on asylum and migration. however, this project raises a number of questions: reports from ngos and other institutions such as the fundamental rights agency (fra) indicate that the number of refugees from chain-pushbacks has increased under the current slovenian government. in the eu, all member states have signed the geneva refugee convention. it states that every asylum seeker has the right to be heard and to lodge an application. we have long since failed to meet these international refugee rights in the eu. this is not only the case at the external borders, where the burden on local authorities is greater, but also in countries such as austria or slovenia, from which refugees are increasingly being pushed back across the external border into bosnia via croatia. the european union is not a party to the new treaty, but it is a party to the new treaty. they must not be normalized or legalized. it is our duty as a parliament to point out such violations of fundamental rights and to call for their abolition. we will also use the slovenian presidency of the council to raise the issue of the human rights violations of migration by national governments.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union is also committed to the development of a european transport network, which is a key element in the european union's transport policy. i am generally critical of this permanent exercise of competence by the eu, which is also contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, but in the field of trans-regional transport policy, intensive cooperation between european countries is of crucial importance. but unfortunately, this cooperation has so far proved to be very problematic. this was also very clearly shown by the eu court of auditors' report on the brenner base tunnel last year. the brenner base tunnel is a prime example of how cooperation does not work: a complete lack of coordination, the absence of access routes, insufficient railway stations and, above all, enormous bureaucratic obstacles are delaying the commissioning of this line more and more, and they also call into question its economic viability. the new directive now contains some positive approaches, particularly in the area of intergovernmental cooperation and bureaucratic hurdles. i hope, therefore, that the new directive will lead to a significant improvement for future trans-regional transport projects. and for these reasons i shall be voting in favour of the reports.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. when one considers the advantages of the european train guidance system ertms, one must inevitably ask why we can still afford to have dozens of national systems in parallel. in this report we have, in a rare unity across all the groups, laid down what is needed to bring the railway forward. it is a further step towards europe, it is an internal railway market, it is a european coordinated approach based on a common technical framework. there can therefore be only one motto for the railways, and that is 'more europe' with commonly developed and uniformly applied standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. of course, that comes with adjustments for some in the sector. but 175 years after the first train ran between two european capitals, it is finally time to bring the european railway system into the 21st century. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked with us, and especially our chief negotiator.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. disinformation is a threat to democracy in europe and also to stability. the aim is often simply to spread anti-eu, anti-democracy sentiment outside and within the european union, outside and within europe. russia and china are engaged in disinformation campaigns from outside. but there are also serious internal threats, such as from the western balkans and its neighbouring countries. the study we are quoting from here, serbia and hungary, is particularly problematic. in hungary, for example, there is increasing investment activity by hungarian media outlets that are particularly close to hungarian prime minister orbán in the macedonian media market. hungarian media companies, which have grown because the government has given them one job after another, are now investing in north macedonia, and then using it to make numerous disinformation campaigns there against the government, against the prespa agreement, for example, but also against the euro-atlantic efforts of the country. the commission must therefore find ways and means of putting an end to these practices. it is unacceptable for eu member states to influence neighbouring countries and create an anti-eu sentiment. we must take a clear position on this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say one more thing to mr krah, who spoke earlier, as he leaves the chamber: we consider human rights to be universal rights. they apply to every person in the world. that is why it is so important that the european union, and the european union in particular, is not only a global player in human rights, but also that it can do even better in the future. that's why this law exists, and that's why it's good, and that's why i'm having a little difficulty taking your tolerance here so seriously. because otherwise, when it comes to fellow citizens in your own country, you don't have that much. but it is also about taking action on foreign policy. that is why unanimity must be removed, and why it must be possible to include economic corruption in this catalogue. that is why we need this eu global human rights sanctions regime as soon as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. this is the third time we have discussed the current situation in tigray since november last year, and it does not mean anything good. the situation is still catastrophic and could worsen at any time. hunger and sexual violence are used as weapons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the sudanese economy is not affected by the crisis. over 1.7 million people out of a population of 6 million have so far been displaced from their homes in tigray. the united nations warns that 5.5 million people in the region need food aid and 400,000 people are at risk of starvation. unicef reports that about 10 percent of children under five suffer from severe malnutrition. that's more than 70,000 children. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food aid is distributed in a fair and equitable manner. the european union must impose targeted sanctions on those ethiopian and eritrean individuals who are responsible for the suffering and massacres. there must be consequences for this suffering.
the commission has already done so. the 28th of july is the 70th anniversary of the geneva convention on refugees. it has given refugees around the world clear rights based on fundamental and human rights, and for good reason. but a look at the situation at our external borders shows that we are not living up to that claim in the slightest. the european asylum policy has resulted in the most massive human rights violations: systematic pushbacks, mass deaths in the mediterranean and completely inhuman conditions in reception centres, as i was forced to witness again only two weeks ago in lesbos itself. but there are also legal violations such as pushbacks within the union, as a recent ruling by the styria regional administrative court, my home state, shows. this shows that people were pushed back from austrian soil via slovenia and croatia to bosnia in illegal chain pushbacks. asylum and migration are one of the major issues for the future of the european union. the call for a common solution based on solidarity is therefore not far from reality but indispensable for a good future in europe. and to advocate this is not to be seen as a matter of blind faith, but rather as a matter of blind faith and even a matter of danger, to believe that peace in europe can be maintained in the long term by means of division and exclusion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we got mail from budapest. after the discussion in the european council, mr orbán wrote us a letter in which he writes about the grossly undemocratic political attacks against hungary. this is, frankly, completely crazy. the opposite is true! the truth is: hungary is attacking fundamental human rights of homosexuals, of journalists, of artists . all these people have no chance in hungary, they are oppressed and treated badly. it's not going to work against hungary. it is against this hungarian government which is restricting human rights there. and what we must also say very clearly is that if you curtail human rights in one country, you curtail them in all of europe. that is why this cry must come from all over europe: we will not accept this! i expect every european government to speak out against these abuses in hungary and to make it clear that right-wing populism is always accompanied by corruption, and we must also fight against this corruption.
mr president, commissioner, distinguished representatives of the council, ladies and gentlemen! how long can you watch something go completely wrong? a university has been expelled from the country, freedom of the press has been severely curtailed, incitement campaigns against independent journalists have been fomented, hard-won women's rights have been severely curtailed, attacks on the independence of the judiciary have been launched, people are being loudly equated with pedophiles because of their sexual orientation. so people are discriminated against from the top, and at the same time the space for critical voices is massively restricted. the thinking should be aligned with that of the orbán government. is this democracy? is this still our union? no, i'm sure you didn't. that is why the article 7 procedure was launched against poland three and a half years ago, and against hungary a few months later - both without result to date. the commission's rule of law report and the many judgments of the ecj are clear. the erosion of the rule of law and democracy in hungary is systematic and has already reached a very advanced stage. how long are you going to sit in the council? when will the commission finally use the instruments that we have? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. defend our open, liberal society with all your might. civil society in these countries needs our vigilance, but above all it needs our action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the loss of biodiversity and climate change is unfortunately well documented, as is the continued contamination of our water and soil by environmental toxins such as pesticides. we must, as european decision-makers, be consistent in reducing the risks to our health and our ecosystems. we have received this same mandate from so many voters in the last european elections. unfortunately, we have seen in the current negotiations on agricultural policy that certain sectors do not want to contribute - a thinking of the past which i believe is wrong. but this parliament is ambitious and progressive, and i therefore welcome this eighth environmental action programme, which builds on the green deal. and i also welcome the fact that we're focusing on measurability and traceability. because we can't improve what we can't measure and what we can't constantly measure and check. this is the honest way forward, and it will pay off.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. where would we be today if, since the establishment of the european research area in 2000, we had given the importance to research and development and innovation that we do or need to give today? now it is time to implement our plans with full force. in this context, i am particularly interested in research cooperation between universities, technical colleges and industry and entrepreneurs. we need the chain from basic research to applied research to practical application. this works very well in my home state of upper austria, and i can only recommend it. just as important as the climate targets already agreed are binding research objectives for our member states, which must be at least 3% of gdp. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. only through research and innovation can the process of transformation succeed and we can safeguard employment and competitiveness in times of change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this 'fit for 55' climate package is the madness of this european commission, in words and figures. this climate package is not just badly thought out, it shows the complete detachment of the eu elites and the whole thing under commission president von der leyen. and to hide this madness, the european citizens are being deliberately misinformed by the commission. the flourishing landscapes, the wonderful future they promise nothing but fake news! the truth is that for europeans, everything will become more expensive in the future: housing will become more expensive, mobility will become more expensive, heating will become more expensive, food will become more expensive. and, furthermore, european industrial jobs will be moving to asia, where production is much dirtier. hundreds of thousands, if not millions of jobs are being destroyed in europe. the european prosperity is being destroyed, the european innovation is being destroyed, the economic existence of europe is being destroyed. what's all this for? i'm not doing anything. you're not getting anywhere. climate change is not being stopped by even half a degree. and the pollution, it's getting worse! the history books will say: the european commission under president von der leyen has deliberately destroyed the most successful, innovative and environmentally friendly industry in the world. poverty and want - that will be their legacy.
(introduction to speech with microphone off) ... it's really about the commitment to implementing the climate goals. but half-hearted statements will not get us there at all, and what we have heard from our conservative colleagues, for example, have really been almost aggressively ignorant, alleged warnings about costs - one colleague even claimed that it would lead to impoverishment. but what about the cost to the next generation if we completely miss the green transition? what about the cost of recurring natural disasters? this is the impoverishment of the europe of the future. and we must now simply acknowledge that the truth is reasonable to man, and we shall need it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and the truth has become a necessity for all of us. and that is why we must make very clear statements here in the 'fit for 55' package and give the citizens of the union a really clear picture of what is coming to them and what our common objective is.
the commission has already done so. the day after the devastating floods in belgium and germany, i heard the mayor of an affected municipality speak on the radio. and he said, "the highest level ever measured here was 17 feet. today we are at 25 feet. it's very impressive and it's very moving. disasters like this year - whether it's severe flooding, drought, wildfires, tornadoes or a heat wave - are not something that has always been there - this is something that has never been there before. the consequences of these terrible disasters: billions in damages, but above all, they claimed countless lives. the european union has also demonstrated its solidarity in the face of this emergency through civil protection measures, in which emergency forces from european countries have jointly provided disaster relief. austria also sent firefighters and soldiers to disaster areas. this is european solidarity in action, and we must also take it as an example at the political level. i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks, especially to the volunteers who do unpaid professional work. such natural disasters are becoming more intense and more frequent. it is high time that the necessary funds were made available for prevention: money for risk management, hazard zones and emergency plans, flood protection, early warning systems, the purchase of necessary equipment. it is not possible for a flood control project to be left unimplemented because of its cost. it is not possible that a fire engine cannot be procured because of its cost. we need to prevent climate change. the only way to prevent even worse disasters is to reduce co2 emissions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the pegasus affair is a new negative low point in all these questions of surveillance and espionage. pegasus is a dangerous tool that has been used to spy on unwanted journalists, ngos and civil society, human rights activists and critical politicians, and in the hands of authoritarian regimes, state actors and private companies. and that raises a lot of, a lot of questions. how can such technology be effectively banned in the future? what measures, what better rules, what know-how do we need in the european union to protect our freedom? we must take a firm stand against such practices! we must protect our democracy from all forms of cyberattacks, disinformation and espionage!
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we have to recognise that kenya remains the only country in the region that grants asylum to people fleeing persecution based on their sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. since march, kenya has been hosting more than 500 000 refugees, including an estimated 1 000 lgbtiq+ refugees. therefore, i want to express my explicit appreciation for kenya’s willingness to accept this huge amount of refugees. nevertheless, same-sex relationships are still illegal and even punishable by up to 14 years’ imprisonment in kenya. in addition, a major problem in refugee camps is the lack of security for lgbtiq+ people. we have to view the human rights situation in kakuma refugee camp with great concern. in recent months, there have been repeated violent attacks on lgbtiq+ refugees by other refugees and locals, many of them reported by the unhcr. the refugees were attacked and injured. as a result, people who had already fled their countries have been forced to flee once again. in some cases, resettlement programmes have been carried out, which have not improved the situation of the discriminated person. the refugees end up in an area where they are not protected and where they are not allowed to stay legally. chriton ‘trinidad’ atuhwera, a 22 year old, was killed by a firebomb after a homophobic attack in the kakuma refugee camp. this case clearly shows that the situation is at a dramatic point. i call on the kenyan government and the african union to consider its approach on lgbtiq+. i welcome kenya’s commitment to be a country of refuge, but i also request strongly that the kenyan government ensures adequate security in refugee camps and launches full investigations into the attacks on refugees, including the death of atuhwera, and holds those responsible accountable.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not 'vision zero road deaths' is the striking title of today's report. the reduction of road deaths is of course an objective to which all members can subscribe. but let me be clear: it is, of course, a utopian goal. as long as there's traffic, there'll be deaths. we must, however, take note of this. so there can only be one approach to this goal. improving road safety is a continuous process. there will never be an end to it. new improvements will be necessary over and over again. new technical developments will also continue to present new challenges, but will also improve road safety. but we must always be careful that these new techniques are really helpful. it is sometimes felt that many assistants to the driver are a nuisance and of little help. sometimes they miss the mark, i'll give you that. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. one is the proposal for a 'tempo 30' in all the major european cities. roads are for movement, not for standing still. this is a typical example of left-wing prohibitionism without measure or purpose. next up is probably "tempo 80 on highways". there is no longer any relation between benefit and harm. the same applies to the requirement of 0.0 per mile in road traffic. the current limits of 0.5 and 0.8 are quite sufficient. once again, sensible approaches are being thwarted by completely outlandish and utopian demands. this is now a common thread running through all eu policies. this also shows the anti-freedom thinking that has taken hold in the eu. self-responsibility has obviously become a foreign word here.
i have to say, madam president, the agreement between turkey and the eu on the readmission of migrants is working. it works perfectly. and it works very well for turkish president erdoğan. he has a loaded gun in his hand with which he can blackmail the eu at any time. and he is also ready to use this weapon as in february 2020, when erdoğan opened the border to greece. and in europe, they have also shown understanding. the german politician röttgen of the cdu, for example, said that this was a kind of cry for help from turkey. it's just incredible. and then, of course, in june 2020, an additional half a billion euros to turkey was approved by the eu. that's how blackmail works. the eu is helpless because it does not protect its borders. this is the failure of the eu. only when the eu is ready to provide effective and robust border protection will this blackmail stop.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the arctic is our northern neighbor, our northern neighbor region -- a vast sea of ice, but also a habitat. and yes, the changes of recent years, especially climate change, the thawing of the northern sea route for shipping, are also increasingly moving this region into the center of world politics: the russian military build-up, china's investment in ports on the northern sea route. but the resources in the region and on the island - critical earth - will also be relevant to the eu's green transition. climate change may also have an impact on the balance of power, but -- and this is the very, very important point -- the arctic should and must remain the low-tension zone that it is now. we cannot export or import other conflicts into the arctic. it is a successful model of stability and engagement between the eu or the eu countries, iceland, norway and russia. and one of the few forums where the eu is still talking to russia is the arctic council, which is working well and we must keep it open as a platform for dialogue and solutions. but the arctic is also a region where climate change is hitting three times the global average. the retreat of the ice, the impact on biodiversity and the impact on the habitat of four million people living in the arctic are important here. all these questions require the european union to develop an arctic strategy that provides the exact answers to these questions. i am glad that we have succeeded in presenting a balanced report with all the parties involved, which presents the parliament's position precisely, but also the position that the european union should take in arctic policy. i agree with the previous speakers that we need more european union in the arctic and more of the arctic in the european debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. yesterday was a pretty special day in the world of online and apps. the downfall of facebook, instagram and whatsapp should be the least of mark zuckerberg's problems, though. it would be much more important not to mislead the public as has been done so far. there's also a hearing in the us congress today, and frances haugen, the whistleblower, is there to talk about how much profit is made from fake news, from hateful content. it says, "it hurts the children and it hurts democracy". she's right about that. unfortunately, she's right. it's not just an example, facebook. google and others are also part of this. these developments are dangerous for our democracy, and particularly vulnerable are young people, and as studies show, especially young women and girls. what we see very, very clearly is that the path of voluntary self-control doesn't work. he failed. it's not the right way. what we need now is a system that breaks this very logic, that algorithms are designed to generate more attention and therefore more profit from hateful content. we have to break that logic, and we don't have to expect mr. zuckerberg to do that, because mr. zuckerberg just wants to maximize profit. so we have to shut down all these mechanisms. so we also have to see that not only is regulation done, and trust that self-regulation and advisory boards are going to regulate this issue, but we have to create regulations that will stop this. we must also discuss whether these monopolies that have arisen here must also be broken up. because a separation of all this, of this power, the economic power and the information power, is necessary because it is harmful and unhealthy for our democracy. and we can't let that happen. we must fight this as soon as possible.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a lesson to be learned from the current surge in fossil fuel prices, it is that we must accelerate our transition to renewable energy, which has become the most competitive on the market, and to energy efficiency. our addiction to fossil fuels was already climate- and geopolitically unsustainable, and it has also become an economic handicap. unlike emmanuel macron and mr grudler, it is not the increased use of nuclear energy, whose costs have become prohibitive and whose timelines are completely unpredictable, that will solve the problem. in the short term, however, this surge in prices and, in the medium term, the cost of investments in the energy transition raise the central question of solidarity, because we cannot accept that once again it is our fellow citizens with the weakest shoulders who end up paying the lion's share of the effort. in belgium, the increase in energy bills is expected to reach at least 100 euros per month for a household with two children. add to this the indirect impact on the price of other goods and services, such as food and transport, and you will see that the situation can quickly become untenable for a family on a modest income. in the face of this energy crisis, it is first and foremost up to the member states to respond to the emergency, in particular by using the additional tax revenues to guarantee and extend the preferential social tariff and to put in place direct aid targeted at the most affected households. however, such short-term measures will not prevent us from making more fundamental choices. the ambition of the green deal for europe must be to make the european union the world champion of the ecological transition. but as you know, producing sustainable and fair is more expensive than dirty and unfair. if it were the other way round, we would not be facing the environmental and social challenges of this century. so if we want each and every one of us to be able to afford to live with dignity, it is absolutely crucial to turn the machine of inequality around. europe is rich, but that wealth is increasingly unequally shared. the european union and the member states must therefore combine their efforts to ensure that those who live by their work get a fairer share of this wealth, whether through wages or social benefits. similarly, and as the pandora papers scandal reminds us, our taxation must once again become an instrument for redistributing from the richest, who in fact consume and pollute far more than their fair share, to the less fortunate, and not the other way around. ladies and gentlemen, without social justice, the ecological transition will not take place. without an ecological transition, it is our societies that will collapse.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, it is clear that whenever the european union attempts to create a community of interests or a single sectoral market, it is bound to fail. like the ecsc in its day, the single electricity market, revised just three years ago to reduce the risk of power cuts through interconnection of networks, is precisely causing one, even in countries such as france, which has become self-sufficient in the long term thanks to efficient and low-carbon nuclear energy. similarly, the european union, which has only the word value on its lips, causes unprecedented speculation on the price of gas - more than 170% in one year - partly russian-german gas, while putting russia out of the nations, and gives its full meaning of cryptocurrency to carbon, which has increased from 10 to 60 euros per ton in one year, even though co2 is a rare gas, valued at 0.04% of fresh air. we'll have to ask ourselves if this is some kind of high-flying hoax. all of this is completely disconnected from the realities of hot summers and cold winters. what about the 750 billion in the green deal, partly paid for by european taxpayers, which is attracting all the greed and favours renewable energies, the limits of which are already known? for the taxpayer, it is already energy poverty. so let the member states manage their energy mix as they see fit and not share the dead ends. let's share the skills of solutions, solutions of causes and not solutions of consequences.
the commission has already done so. energy prices are the key to the green deal's acceptance. but to point only to brussels is too easy. if in some countries 60% of electricity prices are caused by the state, then the member states have so far benefited heavily from any increase in energy prices. the first consequence must be that the countries must reduce their electricity taxes and abolish special levies such as those on renewable energy. the second consequence must be that we use emissions trading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the third message to the same address: make the energy transition affordable. this can only be achieved if we ourselves massively expand green electricity and hydrogen production in europe and make it more independent of imports. but we must also make better use of our own internal market, simplify authorisation procedures, not complicate them - especially to our green colleagues. and last but not least, the transition to renewable energy is only affordable with colourful hydrogen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a european hydrogen import strategy that combines green energy imports with technology transfer and development aid. ladies and gentlemen, relying solely on green hydrogen from europe is the direct route to the energy crisis. so help us shape these transitions. our epp is measured by the paris standards and affordability. you can do both if you put aside ideology.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for coming to this debate. we are here today because the way in which the lives of millions of romanian citizens - european citizens - will unfold in the coming period depends on what decisions and what measures we take in these days and next week. at this moment, for millions of romanian citizens it has become a matter of choosing, of choosing between eating and paying their gas bill, choosing between buying their medication and paying their electricity bill. all of this, unfortunately, is happening because we have all seen that we are facing a failure, a failure of an unregulated market policy, in which we have a monopoly in central and eastern europe. only gazprom sells gas, commissioner simson, and there is no possibility of negotiating this price. who's to negotiate? millions of romanians who have the minimum wage in the economy or millions of pensioners do not have this possibility. and there is something else that bothers us, commissioner: the fact that no action is being taken against those who are grossly and obviously speculating in this whole situation; because when millions of romanians, millions of europeans are paying huge bills and a few are making huge profits, something is obviously wrong. it's clearly wrong to have a profit five times the production price, whether we're talking about gas or whether we're talking about electricity; and all of these things are happening because the measures that need to be taken are not being taken, and right away. last night, commissioner, you know it was below zero degrees in romania. the bills have gone up and they're announcing a doubling of them. these people are not going to be able to pay these bills and they need immediate, urgent action. next week you announced a package of measures. if this package of measures does not include a price freeze and effective, concrete measures to stop the speculation we are currently having on the gas market, on the electricity market, the situation will only be very complicated for all of us and people risk losing their trust in us, in the european institutions and in the democratic institutions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. gas is currently becoming more and more expensive throughout europe, while renewables remain cheap. the task of the european women in this parliament is quite clear: let us finally complete the energy transition. let us at last make europe independent of these abstruse price fluctuations which fossil fuels bring with them. renewable energy means, above all, energy self-determination. it also means: no more dependence on dictators and autocrats in the near and far neighbourhood who can blackmail us with gas supplies. this whole thing is pathetic. it also makes us europe vulnerable in foreign policy. this is the consequence of the energy policy of the last decades. and if we want to guarantee energy supply, then we also need to invest in renewable energy storage. and we need to get better at energy efficiency. all those who now claim that we need more gas to guarantee energy security in europe are simply wrong because they are simply ignoring the issue of dependence. they ignore the fact that we're gonna be more vulnerable year after year. we will never be able to guarantee the energy security they want with gas. we'll never get there. the only way to achieve european energy independence is to switch to renewable energy sources. and even though it was about price, and what we can do to make the energy transition socially sustainable, i firmly believe that the most socially sustainable environmental transition is the one that doesn't take as much out of the pockets of those people who have the least in the first place. and that means that a socially acceptable, ecological energy transition must always be accompanied by a tax relief for the people. so renewables up and taxes down.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the security of energy supply must be affordable and secure for all citizens in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in my view, there are two approaches to this problem: firstly, a rapid halt to the current price increases. it is not possible that by artificially shrinking a few countries which are doing this, prices in the whole of europe are going up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. secondly, and this is even more important to me, we must achieve greater energy independence in europe in the coming years. in this house we agree on one thing: our system must be moved from a fossil system to a renewable energy system. this can't happen overnight. this is a matter of energy policy with common sense. we need not just empty ideas, but a wide range of approaches, whether it be the promotion of green biogas, fuel from renewable resources or energy generation, electricity generation from water or wind energy. another way for me to do that is to generate energy in my own home, on my own roof, and store it, to become truly independent. dear commissioner, i see you're already cold. we are almost at the end of this debate. i would like to ask you to take these points seriously, to make climate policy sustainable for europe, for our world, to solve these problems, including the problems of the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate this morning makes it clear that the future of energy must not only be clean, but also affordable. it is unreasonable that people in europe should have to think about how to keep their homes warm in winter. powerful and clean energy is not either-or, it's a both-and-also. to achieve this - both clean and affordable - we need to focus on true technology neutrality in the 'fit for 55' climate change package. i am referring to fair, really fair starting conditions, including in the footnotes and annexes to our future laws. whether the energy is stored in hydrogen, biofuels or synthetic fuels is of secondary importance. the important thing is that citizens and businesses and the economy have different options. only in this way will we ensure that all regions of europe can exploit their own strengths and use resources as efficiently as possible.
in writing. i would have expected more from you in this debate, since you yourself said that transparency was important. but we still do not know what is in the hungarian and polish reconstruction plans, and you cannot give 'preliminary information' unless there is a final evaluation. i hope that you will be careful at this time to weigh up to whom and under what circumstances money is being paid and ask: do you think it is a good idea to transfer billions of euros to countries where fundamental rights are being undermined, where the ecj and its judgments are being questioned, where taxpayers' money is disappearing into the pockets of people close to the government? the commission itself repeatedly asserts that the conditionality mechanism is about to be introduced: what is the logic behind withholding eu budgetary funds and at the same time withdrawing funds from the reconstruction plan? we would be giving up the lever that we have worked so hard to build to support democracy and the rule of law. my appeal to you, commissioner, is to ensure that we do not use eu funds to finance attacks on our fundamental freedoms. we must not allow money to flow to states until we can be sure that citizens are actually benefiting from this money! the reconstruction fund must restore our economy, but it must also protect our common values.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's been a long journey to get here, as you all know. i would like to begin by thanking the advisers - zoë and juliette, vivian and jana - and tilly metz from the agri committee and all the other shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs - there must be so much time. as expected, we had a lot of differences of opinion, a lot of bridges to cross on both sides to reach this compromise. and we did it. we welcome very much that we now have a compromise that could of course be better for everyone, as they look at the world - some wanted more, some wanted less, some wanted no change at all, as we know. as greens, we welcome this objective, because we need a sustainable food strategy, and we need a profound change - we all know that. at the same time, however, it is scandalous to see the pressure exerted by the agri lobby here to try to change and twist and enforce the strategy of 'from the court to the table', to vote separately, more than ever before, as we know; you all know about the copa-cogeca leaks. but i hope that the members here will show that they are independent, that they think forward, that they know that we need a change. we must act now, and now is the opportunity. i am therefore pleased that tomorrow everyone will vote for these compromises and not for some strange separate votes which have been served up by a certain lobby. i call on all supporters to make sustainable change truly possible, across the entire supply chain from the farm to the table.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was really pleased to hear a long time ago that we are thinking about the whole value chain from farm to food chain to consumer with the farm to table strategy. but what has come out of this is disappointing to me in many ways. this was painted with red pencil. the objectives have been set, but they have not been well thought out and are very, very difficult for farmers to achieve. the aim of this strategy cannot be to produce less cereals, less milk, less meat and to import the quantities that we can no longer produce in europe from third countries such as brazil, argentina or the united states. the commissioner, who is the rapporteur, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, but that it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. i hope that before we talk about blanket bans and make them binding, we will listen to scientific impact assessments, to real experts, to really get clear and to create a good strategy for our farmers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is clear that you, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission, have forgotten what the european union is. the european union is a federation of sovereign nation states, and this federation of sovereign nation states is based on treaties on treaties and not on the arbitrariness of some would-be autocrats in brussels. these treaties do not stipulate that eu law always takes precedence over national law. on the contrary, it is precisely regulated: what are the competences of the eu, what are the competences of the national states? it is a sad fact that the eu is constantly trying to arbitrarily expand its powers. that's the real breach of contract. you're committing the actual breach of contract. the commission's claim to want to regulate national constitutional courts has become intolerable. the arrogance with which you have faced the german constitutional court, the arrogance with which you are now facing the polish supreme court, this arrogance is unbearable. the national constitutional courts are one of the pillars of the national rule of law. you obviously want to destroy this pillar of the rule of law. what about their own transgressions? what about article 125 of the eu treaty? what about the "no bail-out" clause? you've clearly violated your contract here. what about article 310 of the eu treaty, which states that the eu budget must always be balanced? how does this fit in with your debt-taking and your debt policy? i would like to emphasize once again that the eu has become a breach of the treaty. you can turn around and leave the member states alone!
in writing. there is much to be said about the current developments in poland, but in the short time available to me i would like to highlight three points in particular which, in my view, are very worrying: 1) the question of the primacy of eu law: all member states have recognised the primacy of eu law when they joined the union. poland too has freely chosen to do so and cannot now unilaterally adapt the treaties - the basis of our coexistence - to its own needs. 2) the no longer independent judiciary: in poland, the constitutional tribunal now directly executes the requests of the government. in a state governed by the rule of law, the judiciary is responsible for controlling the government. it is dangerous to use them as political stooges! 3) the eu's 'concern': it is useless to continue to express our concern to the polish government exclusively through dialogue. madam president, you have correctly enumerated all the instruments at our disposal. we want to see it applied as soon as possible!
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the 2022 budget is more climate-related than any other eu budget. we have, after all, agreed here in the house to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55%. we all know: the green deal cannot fly without innovation, research and digitalisation. only in this way can the process of transformation be successful and employment and competitiveness be safeguarded in the face of change. i therefore welcome additional funding for horizon europe, for digital europe, but also for smes in the single market programme. let us all work together to promote the european entrepreneurial spirit, because only a successful economy can guarantee and safeguard our social systems. in this context, however, i also see opportunities for savings, particularly if the commission considers that certain programmes cannot absorb as much money as they do. the green deal must go hand in hand with promoting our entrepreneurs, otherwise it is doomed to fail.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the joint undertakings are not only a european success story, but also a glimpse into the european research horizon. these new cooperation projects are essential to achieving our european objectives - such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions, advancing digitalisation or better managing future pandemics. two areas are particularly important to me: the involvement of smes and start-ups, because we have particularly creative, motivated minds, but also the alignment with our industrial and smes strategy to pool even more resources. we're talking about 10 billion euros that we're investing here. the partners are doubling this, but the overall economic leverage is of course many times greater, especially in terms of jobs and further investment. we have had the budget debate here today and the commission has said that it was no longer possible to raise and absorb additional funds for some programmes. then maybe you should invest that money in these programs and make those nine stars maybe twelve. this would also be good for european competitiveness.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. energy prices are rising all over europe, and the coming winter will be the test of whether we can manage to make the response to climate change a socially just response, whether we can manage to make the response to climate change socially just. we have to prevent energy poverty. no one in europe can freeze, not even in the coming winter. that means we need a package of measures: temporary reductions in energy taxes, improving stocks, independence from imports from abroad, the expansion of renewable energy and fast-track energy, and energy saving and energy efficiency must also be at the top of the agenda. this is where we can do the real work. if we are to combat energy poverty and rising energy prices, we must now also invest in a massive expansion of renewable energy. the best power plant is the one that does not have to be built because we are efficient. in this context, the discussion in the european council will show whether the european leaders are willing to deal with these very questions in a socially just manner. just closing your eyes won't be enough.
the commission has already done so. the facts about climate change are clear: we're running out of time. that is why it is always disturbing to me to hear that some heads of state believe that we still have time to wait for solutions. the motto is a bit like, "let's see, then we'll see". educated austrians know this serenity, but it's what will lead us directly to disaster. i'm very tired of just watching you wrestle. we need clear measures, because there are already enough targets. we need concrete agreements, because there are many who have a few airy ambitions. and we need strict deadlines, because there's no time to lose. every fraction of a degree of warming will be reflected in more disasters: heat waves, droughts, floods. cop26 must become a climate revolution. it is also important to me to say that politics has a responsibility to the next generation that comes after us, who will be hit much worse and who probably will not be able to do anything about it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the pandora papers show that the circle of people involved in questionable money deals goes far beyond the usual drug and weapons circle. apart from the fact that this money is also used to fight terrorism, the damage is done to all of us - to everyone, to every single person who pays his taxes and duties in the interests of the common good. in 2020 alone, 164 billion euros were lost in eu member states through cross-border vat fraud alone. that is about the amount we have available in an annual budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. these must be subject to the same rules as conventional currencies. money laundering has reached a level that requires a new authority. austria, as a historic bridge-builder between east and west, would be an excellent location for this.
the commission has already done so. in may of this year we discussed the situation in haiti and called for the restoration of the rule of law and for aid to be delivered to where it is needed most. we couldn't and didn't want to imagine that things could get worse. but, just one month after our debate, president moïse is assassinated, and on august 14th, the earthquake kills 2,200 people. violence, corruption and gang crime continue to be commonplace. just a few days ago, 17 american missionaries and their families, including children, were kidnapped. all these developments make it difficult to provide relief and reconstruction after this devastating natural disaster. 650,000 people are in need of immediate assistance. children cannot go to destroyed schools, covid-19 exacerbates already dramatic food insecurity. the european union must do everything possible to ensure stability in haiti. because only then will it be possible for help to reach the people who lack everything.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i think the best thing about the western balkans summit was that it happened. but i have to say frankly: the results of the western balkans summit are disappointing, not very much, as the western balkans policy of the european union in general and the european commission in particular has been really disappointing in recent years. and i would like to say that we as the eu - and the european commission - must be much, much more present in this region. if we look at the countries individually, serbia and montenegro, there is a great concern that the development in the media freedom, in the civil rights issues, is not going in the right direction. north macedonia and albania two countries which have undertaken major reforms but are still not getting the promised response from the accession negotiations, simply because one member state is blocking this issue for domestic reasons. the kosovo issue, visa liberalization, but also, for example, the double crisis in bosnia, which we are experiencing, and especially the recent steps taken by dodik, which may be leading to the country being torn apart - i do not understand the silence and inactivity of the commission and also of commissioner várhelyi on this issue at all. we must finally get to the bottom of this and prevent this nationalism, which is being fomented there, from setting the balkans on fire again. you can't look away, you have to act!
mr president, the last eu-western balkans summit was a missed opportunity for the eu to show that it is really committed to enlargement. albania and north macedonia do not have a date for the opening of negotiations, while kosovo has still not been granted a visa-free regime. while eu member states continue to quarrel, countries like china, russia and turkey are getting more influence over key countries in the western balkans. there is a crisis in the making in the western balkans, and the eu is doing nothing. the eu needs to offer an integration roadmap with clear expectations and benchmarks. enlargement is an opportunity that will contribute to prosperity and will protect peace and democracy in the continent.
the declaration adopted, mr president, ms commissioner, underlines that the european union unanimously supports the european perspective of the western balkans. it also covers a whole range of concrete measures on the western balkans including a €30 billion investment plan. the future of europe, ladies and gentlemen, the western balkans is crucial to the long-term geopolitical stability of the region and i therefore support any assistance to the western balkan countries on their european path. it is very important that on the other hand, european commitment is concretized, which they can demonstrate at the legislative level through reform efforts that are in line with european principles, because we are aware of democratic deficits and it is therefore important that they demonstrate their commitment to europe both in terms of human rights and in democratic practice. croatia has always encouraged the spread of european values to the western balkans and will continue to encourage the european aspirations of the countries in the region in a friendly manner, as evidenced by the zagreb summit on the western balkans, which put these issues back on the agenda, held, i recall, in may last year. the continuous dialogue at the highest level must continue. not only must he be convenient, but we must be aware that the process should also be speeded up. political and security cooperation must be our focus because no matter what some of you here say these are our neighbours, these are countries whose natural path is that european path. they expect us to help them, and of course we will provide them with that help both financially and politically, expecting on the other hand from them the concretization of their demands, especially in the progress of those democratic processes. thank you very much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. the weakness of european politicians and thus the weakness of the european union itself is reflected in your attitude towards the western balkans. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but when it comes to countering these developments, government leaders often say: the first is to take refuge in worthülsen, making vague promises without giving a specific time horizon; the other countries are shamelessly playing the domestic game over europe's responsibility. the picture that is being produced is clear to all observers north and south of the racetrack: the eu is tired of enlargement. such a prospect of accession is only a prospect if it is also visible. the further away it gets, the more blurry it gets. we're complaining about dwindling influence in the region. and we would have the leverage to change that, in our own hands. the infrastructure investments announced are important. it would also be a reform of the accession process. but neither can be replaced by a necessary mental attitude. we need european politicians who still have the spirit of the founding treaties. in rome in 1957 a clear vision was formulated: an invitation to the other peoples of europe to join in this effort. this is the case with all the peoples of europe. the european union is a promise to all europeans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. europe has made itself vulnerable to blackmail because we do not live up to our own moral values when it comes to doing so. we are providing the necessary breeding ground for the attacks of the belarusian regime - or, a few months ago, of turkey itself - by voluntarily self-assembling our european model of the rule of law. the eu must act now, and the illegal pushbacks must stop. we also need legal ways to apply for asylum, not barbed wire fences, to prove that we are true to our values, even when things get tough, and especially when they get tough. many people have already died on the belarusian border. the exact number is unknown, since no one is allowed to enter the border regions to monitor what is going on. we are well on our way to allowing lawless spaces at the eu's external borders where human rights no longer apply. but if we abandon the fight for democracy at our external borders, we have undermined one of the most important pillars of our eu - the rule of law. is that really what we want?
the commission has already done so. i have to say, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this important report. the aim of slapp lawsuits is not to seek legal advice in a fair trial, but simply to intimidate and silence critical voices. whether it's multinationals against environmental groups, governments against critical journalism, or brands against animal welfare groups, the common denominator is: it's about the abuse of power and the strangulation of critical voices that play such an important role in the health of our democracies. slapp lawsuits not only burden the defendants themselves, but also have an intimidating effect on all other critical voices. so they have the power to change our democratic societies in a negative way for the long term. we must therefore draw a clear line for those who think they can abuse our legal systems for their own purposes. and this requires an eu legal framework, which this request is now going to the commission will allow, firstly, that slapp claims can be rejected as early as possible in the future, in order to protect accused persons and organisations and also our courts from unnecessary trials; secondly, actions which have already been exposed as intimidation in one member state cannot be brought again in another member state. and thirdly, that court staff be sensitized and defendants be able to receive legal, psychological and financial support and compensation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i am glad that we are finally returning to one of the eu's core issues, international trade. it is about strengthening the transatlantic partnership between the us and the european union in very broad fields technology exchange and trade. and this is particularly welcome in principle in view of the growing threat from china, and in particular because of the non-market distortions by china, such cooperation makes sense. i am referring to chinese dumping prices, dumping wages, forced technology transfer in joint ventures, product piracy and, and, and. but on the whole, unfortunately, such agreements will do little good if the eu commission continues with its plans to dismantle european industry under the guise of climate protection. this irresponsible policy makes europe dependent on all other powers and thus makes an independent european policy impossible.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the combination of the multiannual financial framework and the reconstruction plan calls for a modernisation of the financial regulation. i am concerned not only with the efficient use of taxpayers' money, but also with the impact of this use on the population and the economy. in order to combat abuse, it must be possible to identify the final beneficiaries - monika hohlmeier has already mentioned them - of eu programmes, of course under the existing data protection directives. i would also like to thank you, monika, and tomáš zdechovský for your great commitment to the babiš case. we have control systems with arachne and with edes which are of only partial benefit to the member states, either because it is a double-track for them or because they are overburdened with bureaucracy in general. and here we might want to look at whether we can connect the systems better. i am sceptical about the reuse of unspent funds, but i can imagine that this could be the case for research and innovation. we have a huge catch-up to do.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. the importance of sport is becoming clearer during the covid crisis. sport is physical activity, a contribution to health and a social, economic and cultural factor in europe. almost half of europeans play sports at least once a week, especially children and young people in clubs, which make an invaluable contribution to our society through volunteering and youth development. however, they too have been hit particularly hard by the pandemic. while sport is central to everyday life, also in the form of immense interest in coverage of sporting events in the media and in fan culture, it is unfortunately only a secondary scene in european politics. in the only sports report of this legislature, we give sports policy a strong profile. the historic european sport model is based on solidarity, open competition and financial balance between professional and amateur levels. the european sports model must be protected from privatisation and further commercialisation precisely because it is under attack from the super league. but public associations also need reform and more transparency is needed. when it comes to awarding major sporting events, human rights and democratic standards must be the basis for decision-making. we need more women in leadership positions in the federations, and we need to level the playing field in terms of bonuses and salaries for female athletes. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's sporting policy. the fight against discrimination, sexual harassment and racism must be intensified. children from disadvantaged backgrounds must not be excluded from costly sports such as skiing. more physical education in schools and higher investment in sports infrastructure are also the basis for easier access to a wide range of sports. the objectives of the european green deal, particularly in winter sports, must also be taken into account. investing in sport is investing in our society.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the objectives of the new cap would have been very, very important for all of us, as the largest budget line of the european union, to ensure that the cap makes a decisive contribution to combating climate change and to ensuring greater sustainability and biodiversity, to make europe more independent of food imports and to strengthen regional development and regionality. we would have needed a system change in our food production, with more organic production and far less pesticide use, and more animal welfare. the present common agricultural policy is unfortunately a collection of missed opportunities. the european parliament's draft, which could have been more ambitious, was systematically watered down and diluted by the member states. that is a pity, because there is a lot that could have been done to make this a positive development.
in writing. 26 years ago, the dayton peace accords were signed in bosnia and herzegovina, bringing an end to a bloody war. now milorad dodik is returning to an ethno-splitter rhetoric. he is threatening to separate republika srpska from the central state, thus endangering the dayton peace agreement and, in a further step, the stability of the entire western balkans. the eu, as the largest donor to bosnia and herzegovina, cannot be pressured by an ethno-nationalist politician. on the contrary, the union must use all the levers at its disposal. we need swift, targeted sanctions against politicians who threaten stability in europe. the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina want reforms that will move their country forward and closer to the eu: they want a state free of corruption, with a functioning judiciary, a functioning health system and attractive job opportunities for young people who are currently emigrating in large numbers because of a lack of future prospects. the eu and all member states must join forces in support of democratic reforms and peaceful coexistence in our neighbourhood: the territorial integrity of bosnia and herzegovina is non-negotiable. hatred and division must finally be a thing of the past. reconciliation is the top priority: bridging partners, such as 'children born of war', need to be heard and recognised.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. free and fair world trade and the removal of unjustified barriers to trade are of particular importance and importance for smaller countries such as my home country of austria. i am firmly convinced that free and fair trade always brings far more benefits than disadvantages to all partners. in order to make this free trade possible now, we need a firm set of rules and an efficient dispute settlement system. this requires closing the loopholes in the existing regulatory framework, such as those relating to unfair trade practices or counterfeiting, market-distorting subsidies, state-owned enterprises or forced technology transfers, and this is precisely what the wto should be doing. our job should be to ensure that. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the european union's health and safety policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not a member of the world health organization. patent rights have been and always have been an important driver of new developments. the release of patents would also do less to help developing countries, which do not have the capacity to produce such highly complex vaccines in the first place. it would be nothing less than a dangerous precedent that calls intellectual property rights into question. in conclusion, i hope that the wto will emerge stronger from this conference and that we will make some progress towards a fair, free and fair world trade. it is a shame, moreover, that the austrian federal government wants to introduce compulsory vaccination.
the commission has already done so. what is the value of climate action that is so far from what we need? and can one be satisfied with something that falls short of all necessary goals? i have heard from the reactions, including from the media, that many - at least from those who have definitely recognized the problem - oscillate between pragmatism, frustration and resignation. but you gotta take the cop for what she is. it's a place of climate diplomacy, and in diplomacy, revolutionary events are known to be difficult and rather rare. this climate diplomacy has value in itself, and it's worth it. but it's too little and too slow. and we, as the eu, are the absolute frontrunners. what we lack are fellow activists: fellow activists who want to share best practices, who want to work together on climate-neutral trade, who want to work together on emissions trading, for example. but what we lack even more are competitors: competitors in the race to find the best solutions to the 1.5 degree target. we are pioneers not because we are particularly good at it, but because no one does it better. and that's my expectation of future conferences, which is that we're looking for allies and competitors. because the best thing for the climate is not that we are the least bad, but that we are all doing better.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for the last year and a half, we have been in a health crisis, our continent and our world, and unfortunately we are still facing a lot of question marks in many areas. we were on the right track from the european side at the beginning. we made the right incisions, the right sizes. we've invested in vaccine research. vaccines were produced in europe. we were truly world leaders here. we can go back a little bit. at first, there was a dispute over every single dose of vaccine. which country had more? who was the first to get vaccinated? the first clashes have already taken place here. where are we now? the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. then there are still countries in the world that are still scrambling for vaccine doses. we must see that there is a fair balance, that there is a solution, that we can take action here and not wait and not waste the vaccine doses that are still lacking. that's our job. we can do this, we can do this together. this is where we really need good next steps. for me, it's three steps. i told you before, we have to distribute the vaccine well. we have to keep going, booster shots, third shots. we have to stop -- if you listen to some of my colleagues here -- spreading these lies and really get technical, scientific here and really stop making these false statements, then we can succeed in vaccinating more people in europe and in the rest of the world, everyone has access to vaccines.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. this year's report on the state of the energy union shows two of the most important phenomena or processes. firstly, the ongoing energy transition, the commissioner said, in 2020, for the first time, renewable energy will overtake fossil fuels as the main source of electricity in the union. it's good because it shows that we're achieving our goals. the share of renewable energy in the overall energy mix will reach at least 22%, although we know that some member states will fall short of the target. but there's another phenomenon that we should not forget, and that is the dramatic rise in gas and electricity prices in the european union, and of course in other regions of the world. the commission's response to the challenge of energy price volatility requires stronger action, especially as the report shows that 31 million people in the european union were affected by energy poverty in 2019. it seems to me that the proposed toolbox is not enough, as are the announced changes in legislation to ensure greater access to gas storage and increase capacity through the revision of the sos regulation and i think we should change our attitude towards gas as a transition fuel. we must also jointly increase pressure on the main supplier of natural gas to europe, the russian group gazprom. the union should speak with one voice in the dialogue with external suppliers. we also need to increase gas supplies to the union from alternative sources, including conventional gas from norway and lng from the us, the maghreb countries and qatar, and to maintain much higher fuel reserves in the future. therefore, regulatory arrangements should be introduced in the upcoming ets revision to limit uncontrolled price increases and to limit the participation in emissions trading to entities directly covered by the scheme.
mr president, the state of the energy union shows that we are going in the right direction with the transformation and decarbonisation of our energy systems, and that we have a resilient and competitive system, despite price increases. but we have ahead of us important challenges that could also be great opportunities. the eu’s current policy framework alone would not be sufficient to allow us to reach our 2030 and 2050 goals. this is why the fit for 55 package – we are debating the first part now and the second part will come soon – is essential. we should now give the right direction for our industries because this should deliver the transformational change needed across our economy, society, industry and, of course, our energy systems. the state of the energy union shows us that energy efficiency must be prioritised, together with the widespread application of the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle. an energy sector in the future must be developed largely on renewable sources, complemented by the rapid phasing—out of coal, and also by decarbonising gas. at the same time, the eu’s energy supply needs to be secure and affordable for consumers and businesses. but if europe only regulates and does not invest, we are going to lose in the global race, so that’s why we need to focus on investments. we need to bring benefits to all, we need to strengthen our competitiveness and we need to create more jobs of tomorrow and to address effectively the costs and impacts of the transition.
the commission has already done so. time is money! and the time that policy has wasted in expanding renewables over the last few years is now costing europeans an enormous amount of money. and we are still extremely far away from a truly modern, innovative, decentralized energy supply. instead, we remain blackmailed by russian gas supplies, or we play nice with saudi arabia to keep getting their oil. we have been negotiating with the council again last night on the european energy infrastructure and it has become clear again that the really innovative approaches are once again completely lagging behind. it is a sign of poverty that no progress has been made on the crucial issues of transparency, traceability and the selection of projects to be supported. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the word is almost as popular in this house as hydrogen. but when it comes to considering sectoral integration in infrastructure planning, for example by district heating, you suddenly encounter a great deal of misunderstanding on the other side, and you have the feeling that all sides are suddenly speaking a different language. we just have to make nails out of heads. because if you're always talking about how everything has to change, you have to be willing to change everything for it.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, it is time that the european union has a close eye on the ongoing conflict in cameroon that has expanded permanently within the last five years. it has left more than one million people internally displaced. more than 3 000 have lost their lives. 2.2 million people are requiring humanitarian assistance. 66 000 have fled into neighbouring nigeria. 700 000 students do not attend school because of a boycott across the anglophone regions. 50% of the children in cameroon are reportedly being abused. homosexuality is threatened with prison sentences up to five years. initially, peaceful protests by anglophone civil society were suppressed with extreme violence. i hope and wish that there is still a possibility for mediation in the armed conflict in the anglophone region, and aid organisations must get unrestricted access. rule of law and fair trials have to be re-established and military courts for civilians abolished. it is the bilingualism of its people that has made cameroon so special. it is our task to contribute that the people of cameroon can live in freedom and without repression.
mr president, madam vice-president, commissioner, the regulation we are discussing today will apply to platforms with a very significant impact on the market and which are the gateway for communication between businesses and consumers. it is a pioneering piece of legislation in tackling competition in digital markets and, moreover, it does so in a novel way. a key aspect is that national regulators will no longer have to prove possible anti-competitive practices on a case-by-case basis. a number of obligations are laid down for gatekeepers and this is a way of stopping certain anti-competitive behaviour before it causes any damage. i mean, it's an ex ante regulation. the european commission will also be the only authority competent to implement the legislation, thus avoiding legislative fragmentation, which is no small thing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the use of electronic data interchange systems. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs for their work and to congratulate them on their work.
mr president, commissioners, i would like to thank andreas schwab and his fellow shadows for bringing us to this point. we want to make our markets more open, more fair and more contestable, for businesses and for consumers. and that means, that those defined as gatekeepers due to their strong presence in the single market cannot abuse that dominant position they now hold. they cannot favour their own products or services over those of their dependent users. then they cannot keep data relevant for those users and use it to compete against them. for businesses dependent on these large platforms, they can now operate in a fair environment, allowing them to compete and in turn provide more choice for our consumers. and of course, innovation can now flourish not just with the gatekeepers, but with so many of the eu european companies that we need to encourage. i welcome the fact that regulatory dialogue has been included in the proposal. i think that’s important, we must recognize that some very valuable products and services are available from these gatekeepers. and we must ensure that there aren’t negative consequences of our actions. but scrutiny is very important, and i look forward to following the trialogues and the next steps.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the dma and dsa digital package is a real milestone for the european union. the billions of fines imposed on digital companies in recent years have shown that there is a need for action. now we are creating the tools to ensure fair competition and thus make europe the starting point for digital innovation again. how do we do that? for example, by interoperability. this means that users, regardless of which messaging service or platform they use, can exchange messages with each other without having to use multiple apps that they may not even want to have. we will then also create a basis for the dsa so that online platforms, large and small, must also follow the rules we think make sense. so that we can have a clear approach to illegal content, but also a clear policy: how can we protect our democracy online, take action against fake news and finally identify deepfakes, for example? it's been a long time coming, but the policy update for the digital world is finally here.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to extend my best wishes to mr lukas mandl, who is certainly also watching the debate. and congratulations on this report, which has succeeded in presenting a unified position of the european parliament - far beyond the group's borders - on the question of the fight against organised crime in the balkans. the people of the balkans have also earned a positive outlook for the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat organised crime, including the creation of a special unit for the prevention of crime. but crime is also the result of social conditions, of a weak central state, of structures that do not work. it is therefore extremely important to support these reforms in order to create prospects for the future of the people of the balkans. effective and decisive action against organised crime is an important step towards the eu, but also the other way round. the accession process itself is the necessary support for the reforms that will also lead to the fight against crime in the balkans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. it is no longer possible for these two countries to stand in europe's waiting room for decades, despite the fact that they are implementing reforms one step at a time, in a very good, clean and courageous way. it's got to be rewarded. it is therefore high time that the blockade policy of individual member states should be ended and that future prospects for the people of the balkans should be created here.
in writing. and once again, we have to watch as innocent people become the pawns of interests! the commissioner, article 73 (8) tfeu is an emergency mechanism for a sudden influx of third country nationals: the number of people at our eastern external border is manageable, however, and the real problem is a geopolitical one: the exploitation of these people by lukashenko, who wants to put pressure on our community. we must respond directly to lukashenko and not follow the same inhuman path as the autocrat himself and involve innocent people. you yourself said, commissioner, that the current case is not a migration crisis but a 'cruel hybrid threat'. i therefore ask you to withdraw the commission's measures announced. our union is committed to human rights and we must also respect them at our external borders: the right to seek international protection is universal and must not be restricted by any rules, even if they are adopted by the commission.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i fully agree. i think the european year of rail was a success. the flagship project, the connecting europe express, was a good showcase and i took the good opportunity and joined the ride. the commission, together with the partners from cef, did an amazing job to make it happen and how they made it happen. but the connecting europe express also showed that you cannot simply cross a border if you are on a train. so instead of sending one train, and the same train through europe, we had to use three, and the coaches had to be pulled by different locomotives depending on the country the train was driving through. but dear colleagues, i do not want to touch the topic of artificial burden and sky high hurdles for rail, i will not touch upon tail plates versus tail lights, because today we should acknowledge and celebrate what we achieved during the european year of rail, especially if you factor in that covid-19 is not particularly a friend of cross-border journeys. however, i am really glad that you, dear commissioner, together with christian schmidt and herald ruijters, know anyhow what needs to be done, and i know that you are working very hard to make this single european railway a reality. and you can count on parliament on this, you can count on this house, that the objective which unites us across groups is to finally break the chains of national rules in order to fully unleash the potential of rail. so that in 2030, maybe, the next connecting europe express train can freely criss-cross the continent with the same locomotive and the same driver and the same staff in the same coaches. i truly believe in that, and i want to thank everyone who contributed to the european year of rail. the next station is called ten-t legislation. let’s do it together!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it is beyond dispute that our single market is one of the greatest achievements of the european union, which we want to protect and improve. of course, free movement of goods is important, and we have done everything we can to maintain supply chains in the face of the coronavirus crisis. but i know the original text of this debate and i know from which corner the initiative came, namely from the id colleagues south of the burner. that is why i am standing here today and speaking on behalf of the people of my home country of tyrol. i speak for more than 750 000 europeans. the road transport route has capacity limits, especially in the alpine region. for this reason, the measures in tirol are emergency measures for people, the environment and infrastructure, because we are at the limit. the solution is also to move it onto the rail. we must all work together to achieve a functioning internal market, a competitive europe and, above all, regions worth living in.
