madam president, the european arrest warrant (eaw) is a valuable cross-border tool in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. the speed of extradition now, compared to the cumbersome processes of the past, is greatly improved. however, many will remember a time when this house repeatedly expressed concern regarding its use for petty crimes, or the system errors which destroyed the lives of unlucky individuals. this parliament pushed therefore for actions and consequently its implementation has greatly been improved. yet we were recently reminded of the pitfalls when the spanish government used the eaw for its own political agenda. it reminded us that instruments can be used, abused and stretched if there isn’t careful monitoring and protection in place. rather than seeking to create new powers and widening the scope of the eaw, we must first build back trust between the member states and increase transparency and judicial independence. this is the only way we can help.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i would of course like to thank the court of auditors for its work. its independence and rigour make it the best ally of the european citizens and therefore of our parliament, the european parliament. and this year, for the first time, we had a report dedicated to performance. this was a priority for my renew europe group. it is one thing to have accounts free of irregularities, or even errors, but it is also necessary that the funds are effectively invested in economically promising projects or policies with significant leverage effects for the development of our values. every euro spent must be spent efficiently. commissioner, there are some remarks which would merit more attention from the commission, given the new budgetary programming and the next generation eu with 750 billion. in particular, i remain concerned about the very low absorption capacity of many states. only 9 out of 27 states have a better absorption capacity than in 2012. the european average is barely 40%. how do we get our economy back on track with numbers that low? what is the point of providing funds if governments are not able to use the money? moreover, and not surprisingly, errors are mainly found in the areas of high-risk expenditure, such as rural development, innovation, cohesion. the solutions to reduce these errors are known: simplification of administrative rules, digitalisation of procedures, technical assistance and training for administrative staff and applicants. the union must also make progress in this area.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr president, commissioner, i have to tell you something. i thank you for your kind words to the committee on budgetary control, on which i have been the coordinator of my political group for eleven years. the court's annual report gives a true picture of the situation in the eu institutions. on the other hand, it must be stressed that the payments were burdened with too many errors, mainly in the category classified as high risk expenditure, hence the negative opinion on the expenditure. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. every year we have an increase in irregularities in eu spending. this is not some revolutionary increase of 0.2%, 0.1% per year, but it is a fact. now we need very effective management of the covid financial package, because eu spending is going to double in the next few years.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in 2019, we will also have a so-called performance audit for the first time after the regular audit. i would like to ask quite frankly: is it possible to evaluate political outcomes in a neutral way? i think not. the criteria are extensible, even susceptible to manipulation, and even the court has doubts about the reliability of the data partially supplied by the commission. in general, the court is becoming increasingly dependent on commission data. i think this is a worrying development. the court of auditors should finally review the commission. i also think that the court of auditors should concentrate on its core tasks, namely the proper and lawful use of funds, rather than on performance. there's more than enough to do here. mr lehne has mentioned it: 298 billion in accumulated funds. we have far too many failures in the cohesion programmes and in the second pillar of the agricultural policy. we should start here: more staff to check directly in the member states. and not only the court, but also the commission must be much more vigilant with regard to the administration. now, the corona building program. that means the exam effort will double. to be clear, if we are to live up to our responsibility as auditors, the court of auditors needs more capacity, as klaus heiner lehne rightly says. but then we need a completely different a new approach to budgetary control in parliament. we owe this to the european taxpayers.
madam president, in these days of crisis it is very important that the results of the money we are putting into the national budgets from the european union are generated very efficiently and bring added value. it is absolutely unthinkable that they should go to some fraudulent groups, the mafia or the oligarchs who are waiting for this money and who are very good at getting this money from the european budget. there is a need for the added value of european cooperation and solidarity to exist here. we have been trying to bring this to the attention of the european commission and the member states for a long time. and the process of granting a discharge is what we do to prove it. we must seek to find effective solutions that help the citizens of the european union and not just them. i think it's good that we did this report, that it shows that a lot of money is not being tapped very well. the drawdown of member states' funds is slow. by the end of 2019, only 40% had been disbursed, i.e. eur 184 billion, and some member states had received less than one third. that is why we will want to reform some of the institutions and we will want a plan from the european commission called better europe to improve the functioning of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank very, very warmly both the president, klaus heiner lehne, and tony murphy and jan gregor for this year's annual report and, of course, for the work of the entire team of the european court of auditors. we are launching the new discharge procedure and i would like to make two or three points very clear. firstly, i very much welcome the fact that performance is now also being assessed. of course, we will learn along the way. we are seeing that administrative procedures are sometimes perfectly observed, but the purpose and purpose of legislation are not actually achieved. at the same time, we are still witnessing a degree of over-bureaucratization, which leads to a great deal of administrative error within the member states. what really bothers me is that the court of auditors, but also parliament and the commission, are finding it so difficult to obtain valid data from the member states. the data from the national inspection bodies, the data from the national authorities are often not valid. we cannot simply assume that the data of the national audit authorities, the national paying agencies and the administrative authorities are correct in all countries. we see many times that there are some misallocations, that there is fraud, that there is massive cheating, that there are false recruitment, that there is manipulation and that it is made so difficult to trace. the commissioner, i am sorry to say, was unable to implement the digital system in this mff, otherwise we would have had to suspend the whole mff. but i do expect that we will get a horizontal proposal in the financial regulation, so that we can have an offensive and public debate on this, and that we will finally receive valid data from the member states for proper examination.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am certainly glad, as other members have said, that the court of auditors' report this time also focuses on the cost-benefit ratio. because yes, sure, we're looking at financial compliance, but it's also important whether we're meeting our targets. i come from a private background and i asked the censorship committee to be picky with me, because that's how i could make the company perform. i therefore ask the court of auditors not to be stingy with its recommendations to the european commission and, of course, to the member states, because in the end, we all benefit if we are picky about how we spend our money. i support all the recommendations of the court of auditors. i am glad that you have also mentioned in your recommendations the idea of increasing the consultation and transparency of commission consultations, and i hope that this will happen, because the recommendations must be taken into account by the commission. of course, it has been achieved here, and i do not repeat, i sincerely regret that even our important objectives - social cohesion, competitiveness, the european development fund - have had a very high error rate. perhaps here we can find ways, dear commissioner, to reduce the error rate. of course there's a shared responsibility here. and i cannot conclude until i say that you have also achieved in the report, i strive for and have been rapporteur on many reports in my capacity as a member of the cont commission the gender and regional balance is not achieved either at the court of auditors, the commission or the parliament i have been rapporteur for discharge at the parliament. perhaps we can still consider in the future to make this gender balance, but also regional, because there are member states that have almost nothing in leadership positions. and i'll close with a question, if i may. i saw in the report that you wrote down the number of days you allocated to the member states on the mission and whether you can tell us the criteria by which you allocated them, because you spent 400 days, for example, in germany and in my country, in romania, 92 days, or 5 days in malta.
madam president, mr president of the court of auditors, mr commissioner, indeed, we are in a difficult and critical period where the entire european union is being tested, citizens are being tested, who are under a severe pandemic and economic crisis, and we know that in this difficult period all european citizens judge us in the most severe way and try in every way to preserve the last euro because it has value and importance. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we must not be stingy where credit is due, and i really give credit to the president of the court of auditors, to the members and to the whole court of auditors for the really valuable and important work they are doing in the field of auditing, together with olaf and the other audit mechanisms in the european public prosecutor's office, and we hope that the last euro of the european citizen will really be saved. but at the same time we have full confidence in the dear commissioner, whose experience, potential and abilities we acknowledge. it must be understood that in this difficult period, when it was rightly said that there would be increased work in the audit mechanisms because of the 750 billion in additional money, the european commission must support by all means and with all its strength the european court of auditors, olaf, the european public prosecutor's office. every euro we spend on these mechanisms is a huge and multiplied investment for the european union itself, and you know very well that the greatest power of controls is deterrence, and when these control mechanisms have high technology at their disposal, have strong scientific staff who can carry out the controls, it will yield much more. and one last, one important factor that we have to focus on and fight against, because it really is corruption, is bureaucracy. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are all on the same side and fighting for control, really, of the last euro of the european union. we are all bound by the mandate given us by the european citizen.
member of the commission. madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. thank you for this good, engaged discussion. a few remarks, if i may. first of all, if you really look at the evolution of error rates over the last decade, you can definitely see a significant decline. when i left the position of regional commissioner in 2014, the error rate was around 5 to 6%, and i didn't think it was possible to go much lower than that. but in the meantime, that's the case. number one. number two: we should also look at the price in the true sense of the word. and don't get me wrong, i am for any form of control and effective control. but we must also see - and there is a study that goes back several years - that the discharge process alone requires 2000 full-time equivalents throughout europe. this means that, in plain language, 2 000 people are working all year round to relieve the burden of the european union in the member states at european level. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i think we're on the right track. secondly, they have repeatedly complained about the high backlog of payments, which is approximately in the order of eur 300 million. i'm sorry about that too. there's no misunderstanding. but you also need to see what's causing it. the reason is essentially that a majority here in the house, together with the member states, believe that, particularly in the case of cohesion payments, there must be the possibility of the so-called n+3, i.e. the possibility of completion and payment up to three years after the approval of a project. i remember when i started ten years ago, it was n+2, and we still made it. and we actually had a higher absorption rate because of the pressure. that is, my suggestion is, as always, that you go back to n+2, ideally n+1, and then you definitely have a smaller number of outstanding liabilities. the third and final point is the staffing. i understand all of this. we have had the same discussion in the course of the mff. as you know, we have not received any significant allocations in terms of additional staff. but i also have to say, we all need to be creative here. because, yes, we have almost double the normal budget. but this is a temporary matter - at least from today's perspective. so when we're dealing with how we deal with this problem here - on the implementation side, but also on the control side - we also have to be clear that this is a temporary, a temporary matter and we can't build up a staff here that we may not need later on. so, what we need here is not just a certain flexibility, but also a certain creativity. once again, thank you for your dedicated contribution to maintaining the high level of control functions within the european union.
president of the court of auditors. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank you for your contributions and for the interesting discussion. i would also like to make a few comments on what has been said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact is that in 2019, even in the high-risk areas, more spending took place than in previous years. i would therefore like to say that the development towards this audit opinion, if it is realistic, was a predictable development if one looks at the situation in these budgetary sectors in recent years. that's how i want you to understand it. i can only emphatically confirm what the commissioner has just said: if we look at the development of the last ten to twenty years, we have made not just one, but a whole series of huge steps forward. the fact that the results vary in one direction or another is perfectly normal, especially since we are also working with statistical methods. however, if we are to act on our own understanding, we must of course put the facts on the table and also say what is and what we have found. the consequences must then be drawn by the executive and the legislature, as far as they deem it necessary. that's not our job. on the subject of performance reporting, i would like to make a very basic point that performance and compliance are two sides of the same coin. mrs hohlmeier rightly pointed out - and others have also done so - that it is of no use at all if we have perfect compliance, for example, if the specific tender for the construction of a bridge or an airport terminal or something else has gone perfectly and there is no legal error in it, but then nobody or hardly anyone uses that airport terminal or the bridge. that means, of course, that the question of meaningfulness must also be examined. this is what, of course, needs to be checked in a performance review in terms of performance, performance capability. i also believe that this is of particular interest to members of parliament, to the executive, but also, of course, to the citizens, whether or not these funds have been spent in a meaningful way on certain objects and products, that is, whether or not they have been effective. i think that's very important. this is why the court has also considerably increased its performance work in the past. we shall be discussing this report this week at the court of auditors, and we shall be discussing how to continue this report. as i said, this was a pilot project and of course lessons must be learned from the pilot project or there may be some adjustments here or there depending on the course of the discussion this week, but i think that in principle - if i may express my personal opinion here - this was a step in the right direction and i certainly think that this makes sense in principle, although of course we have to talk about details and implementation in the individual use of funds. mr kuhs is, of course, quite right: financial control must be effective, that is not the issue. i also believe that we as the european court of auditors feel well taken care of in this house and have always found the appropriate support here. as i said, we will certainly be able to contact you with regard to the additional staff and expertise needed in the preparation of the next budgets, while being fully aware of what the commissioner has also mentioned here, namely that the change in budgetary structures is - yes, perhaps it is an understatement - seasonal, but it is still a matter of temporary expenditure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is logical and clear and does not need further discussion. but of course we must also be able to cope with the increased effort in a reasonable way. the issue of the reliability of the information we have has also been raised. so if you read this report, mr pieper, you will see that we have made a very clear distinction between where we can use data supplied to us by member states or by the commission and where we cannot. we only take data that we're sure is of the same quality as if it had been collected by us, and we test that very carefully and very sustainably. this has been one of the main focuses of our activities in the context of the annual report, particularly in recent years. this is partly why we have had a greater use of resources in the annual report than we might have originally hoped, because of course these special checks of the data material that has been made available to us have also caused additional effort. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information available to the public. the court will do all that is necessary to prepare for the digital age, which has already begun and which is sure to have an even greater significance. but i want to make it very clear that this is not something the court can do alone. we had a vision a while ago of ernst and young's way of doing audits on private companies: same database, full access to all data at any time, push of a button, complete overview. we can't do that. we cannot do that because, for example, in cohesion audits we have to deal with 170 different institutions, bodies, where we have to carry out audits, all of which have different databases, and that makes it impossible. but my dream would be - and this is probably only possible through a long-term change in the financial regulation, perhaps over ten years, because it also involves investment and costs, not only here but also in the member states in particular - to oblige the member states and the institutions in the member states which have to deal with the funds to provide compatible data in the long term through the financial regulation. i think that would be very desirable, and i think that would be an initiative for this election period, and that would also take us and our work very considerably forward and open up entirely new possibilities. i am not sure that i have covered all the issues, but i have already passed the time allotted to me. i would like to thank you again and wish you every success in the further discussions on the discharge reports.
in writing. for 2019, the european court of auditors presented for the first time, together with the report on the legality and regularity of the accounts, an assessment of the performance of eu spending programmes, going beyond the formal budgetary review, to examine the performance of the european union's policies and the achievement of their objectives, in an effective, efficient and cost-effective manner, the "3e". unfortunately, for 2019, the court of auditors has expressed a negative opinion on the use of eu funds: more than half of them were considered high risk, with an estimated error rate of 4.9%. the economic challenges we face and the health, social and economic crisis we are going through require the utmost attention to the fairness and good use of all eu spending programmes, starting with the recovery fund, which offers an unprecedented opportunity for european states to get the economy back on track. as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, i will work with the court of auditors and the european commission to ensure that eu funds are implemented in a timely and correct manner, in order to support member states and thus support citizens and businesses in their recovery from the current economic crisis.
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, thank you for giving me floor. unfortunately our rapporteur, mr morten løkkegaard, is not able to present his report – he is stuck in traffic. so therefore i will present the report on strengthening the single market: the future of free movement of services, on behalf of mr løkkegaard. this report is extremely relevant right now. the european economy is in a terrible crisis due to the coronavirus, which affects all countries. last year, the european economy contracted by 7.4%, and the unemployment is rising in all member states. we need to boost the economy and create jobs. one way to do this is to realise the huge potential in the single market for services. the european parliament research service estimated that the potential gain of completing the single market for services could be around eur 297 billion, or close to 2% of european eu gdp. the aim of the report is to realise this untapped potential – a potential that doesn’t require new laws or new recovery funds to be established. the three main proposals of the report are: firstly, we must make sure that unjustified barriers in member states are removed and that member states enforce the existing rules. secondly, we must provide legal clarity to businesses and consumers by supplying the necessary information. thirdly, we must provide transparent evaluation of member states’ performance. for example, the report suggests using scoreboards to rate member states’ implementation of the existing rules of the single market. mr løkkegaard has asked me to thank all the groups and the shadow rapporteurs who participated in reaching a compromise for this report. thank you, all of you, for your hard work and your valuable inputs to this proposal. this area has often been highly debated among the political groups; therefore it’s a victory to reach a consensus. the broad support for this report shows that parliament now has a majority behind several proposals to strengthen the single market on services. this is an important step in the realisation of the potential. we are facing an urgent need to create jobs and growth in europe, and strengthening the single market for services is one of the ways to do it. with a broad majority in parliament, it will be up to member states and the commission to follow the proposals in the report and to make use of the opportunity that lies at our feet. we hope that all of you will support the report. now let me add on my behalf, madam president. i would like to stress that the service sector accounts for around 70% of the european gdp and a similar proportion of its employment. a better-functioning single market for services is therefore a crucial necessity for a more competitive and innovative european economy. the economic fall-out from the coronavirus pandemic has only increased the urgency of unleashing the full potential of the service sector. we need greater clarity and transparency for businesses and consumers alike. we must remove unjustified barriers that deprive our citizens of jobs, our consumers of choices and our entrepreneurs of competitiveness. for too long, member states have hidden behind over-regulation of professions and administrative barriers to prevent one of the four freedoms. i was extremely disappointed with the decision to withdraw the services notification directive after the member states and the council blocked it. commissioner, i call on you to engage to find new solutions, new proposals, on how to ensure all four freedoms are fully implemented. you must have the courage to act. now it’s time to complete the single market for services: now or never.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to welcome this own-initiative report and thank the rapporteur and all the other colleagues concerned for the important work they have done. the commission would like to stress that we need a functioning and well-functioning single market for services now more than ever. that is the message that my colleague, commissioner breton, in charge of the internal market, would have liked to recall today and it is the same message that i want to share with you. i fully agree with the central message of this report on the need to deepen the single market for services to strengthen the economic recovery and growth of the european union. the covid-19 crisis has clearly shown us how fragile the smooth functioning of the single market can be. at the same time, she underlined how much the european economy depends on the single market and that when the single market fails, everyone pays the price: supply chains are disrupted, small and large businesses cannot source, deliver or sell related goods and services. the lesson is clear: the requirements of economies that rely more on services or manufacturing are the same: to be able to rely on the backbone of a fully operational and resilient single market. it is therefore time to put an end to the old-fashioned dichotomy between the so-called friends of industry and the friends of the single market. the crisis has hit a whole series of sectors in our single market and also in services. the latter is heavily dependent on the free movement of workers and service providers. they have faced closed borders or delays in crossing them. in order to restore and safeguard free movement, the commission has made considerable efforts to put in place rapid and effective solutions in this respect, as shown by the many guidelines and communications presented. it is clear that a more integrated, more competitive single market has never been more important for recovery and resilience. it is also an indispensable asset in mastering the dual transition to a greener and more digital economy. and, as the report points out, the services sector accounts for almost three quarters of the union's gdp and employment. services are one of the cornerstones of our major industrial ecosystems. services account for nine out of every ten new jobs. in addition, we are seeing an increasing servicing of products, and as the crisis has highlighted the essential nature of services for our industry and our economy, i can assure you that services will be at the heart of our work on ecosystems. but there is equally compelling evidence that the services market remains fragmented and characterised by weak intra-eu trade and investment. in this context, the own-initiative report rightly highlights the last obstacles to services that deprive citizens of jobs, consumers of choice and entrepreneurs of opportunities. it is our common responsibility to fight against unjustified restrictions on the way to a genuine single market for services. some key themes in the report, but first, as you have seen, we have decided to withdraw the proposals on notifications under the services directive and the electronic card from the commission's 2021 work programme. don't see it as a sign of abandoning our ambitions. on the contrary, while we regret that it has not been possible to pursue these initiatives with you, we will use all our resources to chart a new course. first, a few words about implementation and enforcement. very often, barriers to services are linked to insufficient or incorrect implementation of existing single market rules. you are right to put pressure on the commission and the member states. improving implementation can only be done in close cooperation between the european union and the national or even local level. our action plan on long-term compliance with the single market reflects this shared responsibility. in addition, the single market enforcement working group set up with member states plays a key role in addressing obstacles through better implementation and enforcement of the rules. secondly, i would like to stress the importance of prevention. it is often much easier and more effective to prevent barriers to the single market in services than to try to remove them afterwards. the importance of effective notification procedures and ex ante testing of the single market is undeniable when it comes to avoiding unjustified or disproportionate restrictions in the services sector. here, too, we are working on several fronts. on the one hand, we will focus on the strict application of the proportionality directive by the member states, and on the other hand, we will mobilise all our resources to improve the application of the notification procedure established under the services directive. thirdly, i would like to stress once again the importance of digitisation. this is a necessary precondition for the smooth functioning of the single market for services. the recently adopted digital services and digital markets bills, currently under consideration by the co-legislators, will modernise the eu regulatory framework and will be of key importance for the services sector of the single market. i am also pleased that the own-initiative report emphasises the role of the single digital gateway launched last december. it will gather information, provide businesses with much needed administrative simplification and eventually provide a one-stop shop. the one-stop shop and other assistance and problem-solving services will be fully integrated into the portal. the success of the portal will now depend largely on the political and operational support of the member states to put things into practice and we count on parliament to continue to advocate for this. finally, it is encouraging that the own-initiative report highlights the role of greater integration of services markets in achieving social and sustainability objectives. it goes without saying that services can and must contribute to increasing the sustainability and resilience of our industrial ecosystems while respecting the principles of the circular economy and the objectives of our green deal. it is also clear that the objectives of the single market and social and environmental policy can and must go hand in hand for genuinely sustainable development. in conclusion, much remains to be done and we must work together to strengthen the single market for services. your own-initiative report is a useful contribution to this work. in the spring, the commission will present a review of the industrial strategy of march 2020 to ensure that we take into account the lessons learned from the covid-19 crisis and the acceleration of transformation processes. the single market will be central to this. we will take stock of progress under the long-term action plan for enforcement. we will also present concrete ideas on how to deal with the crises in our single market and remove the remaining obstacles. this will form the basis for our successful and continuing work to ensure a genuine single market for services.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – madam president, it’s too bad that the rapporteur couldn’t be here. i know traffic jams can be difficult and bad, but this text is worse. deze tekst is een aanval op werknemersrechten. het vrije verkeer van diensten in de europese unie vergemakkelijkt al te vaak sociale afbraak en dumping. zo kan een bedrijf uit één land diensten verrichten in een ander land, in de bouw of de transportsector, zonder werknemers dezelfde rechten te garanderen. ook wordt het gemeenten moeilijk gemaakt om een mcdonald's tegen te houden die te dicht bij een school staat of om airbnb te reguleren en zo wijken leefbaar te houden. vanuit de commissie werkgelegenheid hadden wij een advies opgesteld en dat was duidelijk: het vrije verkeer van diensten mag sociale rechten niet schaden. in dit verslag wordt ons advies volledig aan de kant geschoven. dat kan niet. het is een oproep tot minder controles op sociale dumping en minder reguleringsvrijheid voor gemeenten. iedere stem voor deze tekst is eigenlijk een stem tegen sociale rechten en tegen werknemersrechten. daarom hoop ik dat een meerderheid straks tegen deze tekst stemt.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, today marks the end of a year of european decision-making in the face of the pandemic. the european commission, relying on pro-european ministers or meps, thought it could take control of europe's health. the current stage of active vaccination is a caricature of this. because after the release of significant funds, let's remember the 30 million direct to the curevac laboratory, then the loan-purchase by public procurement groups of six vaccine manufacturing laboratories, after the most opaque negotiations and unknown negotiators, one can also wonder what the dark web will reveal to us after the hacking of the files at the ema, we are in the distribution of vaccines and we discover that there is a beginning of shortage and a breach of promise by the laboratories. all of this is unfortunate. my question is simple, madam commissioner, do you really want to bring this essential vaccine to all europeans or do you want to provide these same laboratories with a comfortable mattress of two million doses a year for several years or a wonderful subsidised testing ground for gene therapy techniques?
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, anti-european demagogy sometimes finds its way into unexpected places. for example, markus söder, the christian democrat who could succeed angela merkel in 2021, recently claimed that it would be the overload of bureaucracy in brussels that would explain the low quantity of vaccines ordered and the length of price negotiations. how easy it is to blame the european institutions when something goes wrong at home! mr söder would of course like us to believe that, left to themselves, the member states would have been much more efficient in identifying the best vaccine candidates in advance and in negotiating quantities and prices. this is bullshit! the truth is that the european commission negotiated with the laboratories in close consultation with the member states and in a context of great uncertainty, because it is precisely by acting together that we best serve the general interest. what can be rightly reproached to the commission, however, is that it has given in to the laboratories by keeping the contracts with them secret. i say, this opacity is an insult to democracy. in any contract, the buyer must know what he is buying, on what terms and at what price. and make no mistake: in a democracy, the political decision-makers hold their legitimacy and power by delegation from the citizens, which means that when they buy vaccines, it is in the name of the latter. it is therefore unacceptable that essential terms of these contracts should be kept hidden not only from citizens but also from their representatives. beyond the question of prices, it is crucial to know, for example, who will be responsible in the event of adverse effects or problems caused by vaccines: public authorities or pharmaceutical laboratories? we don't know! where's the transparency? certainly not in this charade of giving a few members access to certain contracts, all the crucial provisions of which will have been purged anyway, without even having the right to take notes or to state publicly what they have read. the commission tells us that it was the laboratories who demanded transparency. of course they did! like all multinationals, they fear the plague of free and undistorted competition which, remember your first-year economics course, requires perfect information from all actors, buyers and sellers alike. and it is not a question here of revealing manufacturing secrets but of the terms and conditions of sale. we say that the commission should have and must now impose transparency and i would like to see which of these multinationals will refuse to hand over europeans on the pretext that transparency would harm their interests. this is all the more so since these vaccines have received considerable public support to bring them to life. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to remind these companies that in a democracy it is not they but the representatives of the people who make the rules.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, madam commissioner, i was one of the first members to see this contract you have concluded with the pharmaceutical companies and frankly what a circus! phone confiscated, confidentiality agreement, all the vital information crossed out in black. basically, you let the company decide what mps could read. you privatized transparency. you had to do it. so it's mind-boggling, but so governments are able to impose a general lockdown on the entire population but you, in front of the pharmaceutical lobbies, you make the carpet. but the vaccine is not primarily thanks to them, it is public funds that have paid for research and development, that have paid for production capacity, that will pay, who knows, in case of hidden defect. frankly, we've already paid him three, four times for this vaccine. for pfizer, meanwhile, that represents, i think, 24 billion additional admissions over a few years. so you let the multinationals make the law, they decide how much they produce, they can even turn off the tap. did you hear that? in december, pfizer came to belgium, saying that we would have 300,000 doses less. meanwhile, in israel, the shipments were in full swing. perhaps because israel was paying twice as much as the european union. because you know that profit is paramount for them and the countries that can't pay, even though they are losing, right? you talk about covax, but europe has bought five times as much vaccine for its population, while south africa has one vaccine for every three people. south africa, which is facing one of the worst variants of the virus, should be reminded of this. yesterday, who, the world health organization, called it a catastrophic failure. and the bottom line is that to guarantee pfizer's profits, you refuse, you forbid india and south africa not only to vaccinate but also to produce the vaccine. with the patent system, you're now preventing them from producing vaccines for everyone. you're stopping the vaccine from circulating, but you're not stopping the virus from circulating. do you feel the boomerang effect coming with this south african variant in europe? we need to share the vaccine, we need to take it out of the hands of big pharma and we need to put it under public control. but you, you continue to make the carpet for the multinational pharmaceutical companies. today i read in the belgian press a call for a citizens' initiative to collect one million signatures, and our group is joining this citizens' initiative. in the face of the power of multinationals, it's time for people to rise up: no profits on the pandemic and certainly no segregation in vaccination.
mr president, commissioner kyriakidis, ladies and gentlemen, joint orders from the european union have ensured that the vaccine is a public good for all of us in the european union. however, as you know, commissioner, the vaccination project is facing serious problems which we must urgently solve. first of all, it is necessary to exert pressure on the pharmaceutical companies that make the vaccines in order to meet their obligations to produce on time. the time it takes to get vaccinated will determine our return to normalcy, to economic activity that has died and we have to run. it is also necessary to harmonise the criteria for movement within the european union, particularly in view of the tourist season. the vaccination certificate proposed by greece's prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis is the key to restoring our right to free movement. the vaccination certificate, ladies and gentlemen, mrs zacharopoulou, is not discriminatory, it is not mandatory, it is not a condition for travel. but anyone who gets vaccinated should be able to travel freely. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. it is urgent to restart the economy, to support jobs, to replace the thousands of jobs that are being lost; it is urgent to take back our lives.
mr president, let us remember the words of some renowned virologists ten months ago, who were anything but certain of the success of the search for a vaccine against covid. the bet is won and today we are, according to some speeches, closer to disaster than to euphoria. would we have become so dull as to be silent about this enormous feat? this was not possible without taking risks. by supporting science and laboratories, the european union has taken risks. it should be commended, not only for having succeeded, but for having taken risks, because if we take only precautions, we will not get anywhere in the fast-paced world, and in the fast-paced world we must insist that the world is changing faster than we are. there is another challenge we need to address, which is universal access to covid and in this regard, i believe that we need to activate all the political levers, starting with the one to intensify contacts with the new biden administration. i believe that, as part of the relaunch of multilateralism, we have every advantage in exploring all possible avenues to mobilize the necessary efforts to make the virus accessible to all, including... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. corona fatigue is spreading among many of our citizens. vaccines give hope - it's the light at the end of the tunnel - but they also lead to more impatience. the european union has ordered 2.3 billion doses of vaccine, enough vaccine for everyone. that's good. it is really good that the european union has acted together here. yes, we need to speed up the vaccination. the european union can and must also help here, particularly in building up the production capacity for the vaccine. but we must also be aware that even under perfect conditions, vaccinating over 440 million eu citizens will take time. and at the same time, we have to remember that there are many people who cannot be vaccinated because of other diseases. we owe these people a debt of gratitude too. so we must not forget our efforts to research therapeutics and drugs for covid-19, in all the vaccine euphoria. until everyone is vaccinated, many people will still get sick from corona. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we need a european strategy for vaccination, and in particular a european strategy for treatment, so that we can support the people who need it. i would like to point out that i believe it is also necessary that we get vaccination certificates as soon as every citizen can be offered a vaccine. we can only have redemptive normality if we act responsibly in the coming weeks, including with regard to the lockdown measures.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have learned a great deal from this crisis. at the beginning of the pandemic, member states were not great at joining forces, but this did not prevent the commission from taking action. it is thanks to the european union that we have today effective, safe and affordable vaccines. it is thanks to the eu that we can hopefully give people a tiny bit of perspective again. and yet, there were comments again: we had ordered too few vaccines, it was all going too slow... wrongly, i think. the strategy worked. a stronger bargaining position, more quality controls, equal access for all member states, and risk spread by focusing on different vaccines. nobody knew what the silver bullet vaccine was going to be until a few months ago. no member state could have done this on its own. but we're not there yet. further cooperation and european coordination are needed: the european union is a global player in the world economy. and this trust can only be built with clear communication and transparency, so that we can convince citizens to get vaccinated, because new variants are on the hunt. we have no time to lose, commissioner, and we must increase the speed.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the transeuropean transport network project is finally bringing us back to one of the union's first objectives: the free movement of goods and people. however, although transeuropean network projects have been considered highly successful, there are still obstacles to our ability to explore their full potential and demonstrate it in the future. firstly, uninterrupted crossborder rail transport on the transeuropean transport network and along the european rail freight corridors requires strong crossborder cooperation, which is of course mandatory even between infrastructure managers. throughout europe we have more than 21 different safety systems, and so the revision of this text we are discussing today calls on the commission to propose important binding measures for infrastructure managers. secondly, we must of course ensure that our transport infrastructure as a whole stands the test of time. we must align these projects with our environmental objectives and therefore, in the context of the transeuropean transport network, give priority to the full deployment of alternative fuels. and finally, our goal must be as strategic. today, our military mobility is limited because our trains cannot transport military equipment from the port of antwerp to the rest of europe, for example, so we need to increase these synergies for defence needs. i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that with this report we are making the necessary contribution to enabling the european commission to modernise all these elements.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam secretary of state, bosnia, greece, italy, libya, turkey, the humanitarian situation of the exiles at our external borders is dramatic. it is emotional, but it is mostly anger and indignation. thousands of people, vulnerable children in exile, are housed there with no prospects, in undignified conditions and freezing temperatures. situations that have been known for a long time. so enough of the big statements after disasters like the fires in moria or lipa. our institutions are responsible for the tragedies that take place there, the result of the european policy that your asylum and migration pact entails. lives are being shattered, european values are being shattered on the altar of the fortress europe erected against people. blaming the local authorities or the state organisation and injecting ever more funds to rebuild camps does not provide any structural solution. these solutions are known: procedures that respect rights, solidarity between member states, safe and legal access routes, the abolition of the first-come, first-served principle. ngos, activists and citizens who favour welcoming and solidarity are the pride of our continent and should inspire your policies.
madam president, madam commissioner and madam secretary – three women, that’s really cool. on this topic, any abuse of the law must be thoroughly and seriously investigated, but today’s discussion cannot take place without looking at the bigger picture. the situation at our external border is complicated and difficult. frontline member states are overwhelmed. others struggle with the consequences of secondary movements and poor integration. the eu asylum system is broken. as confidence in this system continues to disintegrate, the more likely it is that people will seek to operate outside the failed legal framework. it’s clear that we need urgent and serious reforms. we must improve the efficiency of processing asylum seekers upon entry, prioritise the expedient return of failed asylum seekers, and work with international partners to stop individuals from being smuggled into the eu in the first place. we need a system that goes back to the founding principles of the geneva convention. only by tackling the heart of the problem can we stop the consequences, which we discuss here today.
madam president, when president lincoln spoke at gettysburg, expressing the resolve that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth, the doors opened to a new birth of freedom in that young nation. the secular and venerable achievement of building a popular democracy became a shining example to many nations. today, the battle to defend and develop democracy has become a global battle. we can find encouragement in the actions of those who, on 6 january, gave priority to their constitutional obligations when the rioters challenged democracy. but the forces of darkness cooperate internationally. that is why we must help in building the global alliance for democracy. we must contribute to that primarily by allowing a new birth of freedom, of justice, of respect, and of defence of the public good on our own shores. welcome president biden. welcome vice president harris.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today marks the beginning of a new era and we wish the new american administration every success. there are many certainties in this house, but there are many more unanswered questions. do you really think that joe biden will be the one to solve the vision and leadership problems of a lost and soulless europe? do you really believe that once the monster trump is down, tens of millions of patriots in europe and the world who believe in the values of identity, sovereignty, family, religious sense, merit, work ethic will disappear? are you so democratic that you want to rule the world with web corporations, which censor the free speech of citizens and political leaders, even when they obey the law? are you really so irresponsible as to think that the world will be more peaceful and secure if we return to the obama-clinton doctrine, which has paved the way for wars, islamic fundamentalism, refugees and illegal immigrants? and do you really think that we can make deals with the chinese communist regime without worrying about rebalancing global trade in defense of our products? for us, the transatlantic relationship is not something to be bent to one side's interests but the framework within which to respond to the great challenges of our time. we will continue to work in this direction.
madam president, the planned invasion of the capitol by far-right reactionary forces, and the standoff that preceded the american elections, expose all those who are falling from the clouds for the so-called american democracy: that of dozens of wars, of partitions of countries, of coups and overthrow of elected governments with the bloodshed of peoples, both republicans and democrats. with both, the american people have experienced time-honored exploitation, unemployment, repression and racism. the depth of a society's deep decay lies beyond the trump administration, and those who harbor false hopes for a pro-people biden administration claiming to curb turkish aggression will soon be proved wrong. the debate on trumpism cannot exonerate the same rotten capitalist system with its cherished contradictions and class polarization. all this is directly linked to the acute problems of the american economy, the challenge to the primacy of the united states by china and the acute competition with the european union. the peoples must be on their guard, lest they pay for the crisis in the united states with a new round of intensifying aggression and escalating imperialist plans.
madam president, in a few hours donald trump will become nothing but an appendix to the history books. as president von der leyen pointed out, we cannot say the same about trumpism, a virus that is still very much alive. trump has confronted democratic institutions, the separation of powers, international organisations, the free press, and even science. never has an american president hurt so much and harmed so many in such a short time. as europeans, there is one lesson to be learned from these last four years. when it comes to our destiny, we cannot rely on the united states alone. not anymore. the myth has fallen. if we want to maintain peace and international order, if we want to protect our democracy, free press and human rights, europe must react now. it is time for europe to take a step forward. the world needs european values and principles more than ever. we have suffered two world wars, and two cruel dictatorships in fascism and communism. we know well what it is to live without freedom, justice or rights. we have a moral duty to prevent something similar from happening again. and the commitment goes beyond our borders. it is a commitment to the world and to history. from europe to the united states: welcome back, we missed you.
madam president, the first priority to relaunch eu—us relations is to fight the pandemic and the related economic and political challenges. cooperation is needed so that the least developed countries will also get their fair share of vaccines and their economies will not break under the weight of increased debt loans. we should show the world that true leading democracies can stand together across the globe and by the weakest members of the international community. to quote the words of former president wilson, from 100 years ago: ‘make the world safe for democracy.’ today, we need to make the world safe for democracy, also with the us, and make the global digital world safe for democracy. there is a lot to be done, not least to regulate platforms and emerging technologies, such as ai, in line with human rights and democratic principles. while intensified cooperation is our aim, we need to continue strengthening europe’s independence capabilities. as a stronger autonomous actor, we will have more to give to the world and to our partners.
madam president, we all congratulate president biden and vice—president harris, and in particular of all the girls out there, we congratulate vice—president harris. the transatlantic relationship is crucial for us, but the pre-trump era will not come back. in fact, the relationship had already profoundly changed, but europe didn’t seem to notice. a strong partnership needs two strong pillars, and europe has indeed rapidly grown stronger and more powerful in recent years, and renew welcomes that strong and self-assured europe. but, we should not be blind to the weaknesses in our own european democracy. events in washington two weeks ago are a warning for europe as well. we don’t have one single big trump but we have many ‘mini trumps’, and like in the united states they are part of the political leadership of the eu, and they get their podium, not just on social media madam president, but also traditional media, and yes they get protection from traditional parties as well. so, today we enter a new era. let’s make it the era of liberal democracy, shoulder to shoulder, with our american friends.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression is fundamental to our democracy. this is a fundamental right, because citizens control those in power. this is guaranteed by the constitution of each nation state and by the european convention on human rights. social media and the internet are the modern marketplace where we exercise this right to free speech. but these platforms are not free markets, they're dominated by an oligarchy, a silicon valley that does business everywhere but pays no fair taxes anywhere. multinationals like facebook, twitter, google, apple and amazon, by their monopoly, control the information in our democracy. they then appropriate the power to determine what is the truth, and to censor what they find undesirable. in doing so, they determine who in our democracy still has free speech as a fundamental right. moreover, they also appear to have the power to deny access to the market to their direct competitors parler and thus to liquidate them. this is a fundamental shift of power from the people to the shareholder, from democracy to oligarchy, from the constitution to the user agreement. this is downright dangerous for our democracy, which is built on free markets and free citizens. that's why we have to break up these companies. and if that is not enough, we must deny them access to the european market. the european union has the power to do that. use them. time to move.
madam president, as the era of ‘america first’ comes to an end, we can begin to look forward to a presidency of ‘allies first’ from the biden administration. europe has spent the last four years carving out its own strategic autonomy. now we have an opportunity to make the transatlantic alliance great again. by speaking in unison as democratic allies, our words and actions can be strengthened in the face of the existential challenges that we face: autocrats like putin, challenges related to the tech revolution, violent islamic extremism and the threat of climate change. i urge the eu to support biden’s efforts to unite democracy so that we can reinvigorate multilateralism in our own free image. the recent events in washington have shown how fragile all of our democracies can be, but i also do we agree with my colleague danjean that we need to look deep inside the issues and face reality. the free world has the chance to come together in the defence of our common values which have been neglected for too long... (the president cut off the speaker)
ladies and gentlemen! europe and the united states enjoy a long-standing friendship, and our security is guaranteed above all by the presence of american troops. and that's still the case. it is naive to think that a change of white house host will relieve us of the obligations of nato membership that president trump has so emphatically reminded us of. the pressure to increase the financial commitment of european countries to the north atlantic alliance will not go away. we've seen scenes in the last few weeks that should not take place in a democracy. but the reaction of the major social networks was even more shocking. it would be bad if the 45th president of the united states, as he is nearing the end of his term, was associated in the future only with the storming of the capitol, but it would be even worse if the 46th president's term was associated with the beginning of internet censorship and the end of free speech. whether they like it or not, the american people have elected not only a head of state, but an informal leader of the free world. i hope president biden can do that. god bless america and europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. let's not forget that this is a great day as the united states of america now sworn in its new president, joe biden. a president who wants to strengthen democracy, who believes in multinationalism, who wants to be a force for climate action. the bloody storming of the capitol is the result of trump's long-standing undermining of the american electoral system. the eu is right to condemn his actions. but even if trump, this angry clown, is now about to be relegated to the margins of history, we must not forget that there is a risk that there are many people who want revenge and then it could become even more dangerous, also for the world. the major challenge for the eu is to advocate a new transatlantic cooperation. take the opportunity with biden-harris, with a climate-focused eu commission. make sure you make this year a success for glasgow. make sure to fill the transatlantic climate cooperation and make sure we have a future together that is even better.
madam president, when 60% of europeans think that the us system is broken and few think americans can be trusted, the transatlantic bond is at breaking point. we must urgently rebuild this trust. on trade, isolationism must end. for starters, we need a functioning wto and all tariffs against the eu lifted. on digital, we need common us—eu regulations on the digital world, from the internet to cyber security. we must not break our digital bond by europe going alone. to ensure our continued place in the 21st century, we need a renewed us—eu partnership. i hope we now have a partner on the other side of the atlantic that we can call: a partner that understands the importance of this bond. here in europe we must stop promoting protectionist solutions under the banner of sovereignty and remember that we should build bridges, not walls.
madam president, i would like to focus on the proposed eu-us trade and technology council. but first let me say that we see on the other side of the atlantic an american president who values international cooperation and a transatlantic relationship. i believe if we stand together again and do our trade policy thoughtfully it will give us both greater agency in the global world. talking about the council, i think it could become a platform to deepen our mutual involvement through facilitating regulatory compatibility in areas of geopolitical relevance. while generating geopolitical benefits in areas like the digital economy, the council could help to avoid the risk of separate regulatory spaces and incompatibility. benefits from common standards will be particularly high in the areas of new regulatory requirements for technology, investment and security. in this context, the council could also look into innovative approaches to standardisation. after four years of largely dysfunctional relations, there is also the need for this house to intensify our transatlantic dialogue because we have many converging interests and we face common global challenges.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president michel, mr high representative, today the united states is finally turning the page. after four years of unilateralism, it is time to get back to politics together. we are confident that the new president joe biden will contribute, as promised, to the building of a renewed international system based on a new multilateralism and a constructive dialogue with the european union. there are many issues we will have to face together. i will cite two: global action on climate change, building on the paris agreement, and a global transatlantic agreement on digital and data, including the taxation of the web giants. today, right-wing nationalists and populists and their conscious or unconscious allies are being set back around the world, but the struggle for greater democracy and social justice around the world must continue and it is a struggle that must unite people, especially at such a difficult time in the history of our world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. with joe biden and his administration, we have the chance to open a new chapter in the transatlantic relationship. our values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law unite us. not everything will change tomorrow, but in areas where we have common interests, we should work together again. the announcement by the new president that he will immediately rejoin the paris agreement on climate change is good news. the announcement by the new president that he will rejoin the who is good news. the reform of the wto was also on the common agenda, as was the joint fight against corona. the expectations of good cooperation are high, but the terrible images of the storming of the us capitol on january 6 are also remembered. the storm was fueled by the echo chambers on the internet. this development must also serve as a warning to us in europe. again, there is hate and misinformation in the echo chambers of the internet. we can't let the tech companies decide what can go on social media. that is the task of parliaments and we must take it up now.
madam president, mr president, americans are more than friends, they are brothers. they liberated our lands 76 years ago, i'll never forget it. 80,000 have lost their lives in my region of bastogne. i would also like to thank you, mr president, for your commitment to the commemorations. so of course, we've been hit, we've been hurt by these past four years, by these past weeks, by these past days. a new era is opening up, which offers opportunities to strengthen these fraternal and almost carnal relations, including, certainly, in relation to the climate, the fight against global warming. i hope we are not naive about taxing gafa without a commercial response from the united states. and i very much hope that we can also see and revise the agreement with china based on these new contacts and this new relationship that we are going to develop with the united states, with the biden administration. it would be foolish to go and sign this agreement without having new contacts and without seeing him again in any of these relations.
president, mr prime minister, lisbon is one of my favourite cities and i also note that you have some good points. you are firmly in favour of multilateralism and you will find a partner in joe biden, who has the good idea of organising a summit of democratic countries. i ask you: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. good luck with your plans for new trade agreements, especially in central and south america. i hope you will find support for mercosur, with additional commitments to sustainability and forest management. i also ask you to do everything possible to finally achieve a breakthrough with india. make that summit a success. i think you can count on the european parliament. i'm much more reserved for your social gathering. i ask you to keep the powers of redistribution to the member states. respect subsidiarity to maintain confidence in the union.
madam president, mr prime minister, thank you for putting the social dimension at the heart of european policy. the covid crisis has had and continues to have a significant impact on older people in our society, but it also has a very significant social impact, particularly on young people. young people today are desperate, the short-term reality is rather bleak, in the medium term it is hardly any better and in the long term it is quite dark, anxiety-producing, in any case, especially linked to the fight against global warming. so, thank you for telling us, for telling us whether youth will really be at the heart of this social summit in porto which will be very important for everyone. thank you also for including the social partners in this process. on the other hand, i am really surprised that you are putting the issue in the forefront and that you have this desire to ratify mercosur absolutely and quickly. we cannot consider free trade agreements any more, and i am in favour of free trade, regardless of the impact on the climate. we cannot say that we are in favour of the paris agreements and not take into account in the various agreements that we are moving from a precise, objective analysis of the co2 impact. it is a first element and the second for our farmers, our producers, we would rather wait for a signal, especially in relation to imports which must stop, if we have this production force in europe, especially for livestock feed. finally, we are of course glad that a populist in north america has left the white house, we must not be able to support a populist in south america, namely in brazil, tomorrow.
mr president, when house prices are soaring despite an economic crisis, when waiting lists for social housing sometimes last a quarter of a lifetime and when bricks are seen as an attractive investment for housewives in particular, then it is time to act. for many people, a good, affordable home has become a far-from-my-bed-show, an unattainable dream. this is unacceptable. that's why we really need to invest more in more social rental housing. it should become the standard that all new building projects also include sufficient social housing for rent. in europe, in the netherlands, young people, families and the elderly deserve a good home to call their own.
mr president, some 20 undocumented people living in 37 m2 in the val d'oise, 200 migrants in a squat in marseille, a growing shortage of social housing in île-de-france, migrant and roma camps on the outskirts of our cities - these are just a few examples of the sad state of affairs in our country today. we keep repeating what you refuse to see: the constant flow of migration is aggravating the housing problems, much to the displeasure of the teachers who voluntarily live far away from those they claim to defend. to put an end to the fatalism and hypocrisy of well-meaning people, let us stop immigration, which has catastrophic effects on the popular classes who suffer the full effects. let us affirm national preference in the allocation of social housing, let us wage war on sleeping peddlers who, like smugglers, profit from the laxity of our states, along with social misery. stop the third-worldisation of our nations.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, decent and affordable housing is not a given for many europeans, let alone for the more than 700 000 homeless in the eu. the right to housing is nevertheless mentioned in the social pillar and enshrined in the european convention on human rights. in belgium, decent housing is a basic social right. in addition, housing provides the key to access to other rights and other social services. do i agree with every single paragraph in this file? i'm sure you didn't. but as co-chair of the intergroup on the fight against poverty, i support this dossier because decent housing is one of the most important levers in the fight against poverty. and i want to talk about homelessness. the number of homeless people has increased by 70% in the last decade. this is why it is so important to have a european cooperation platform on homelessness, to realise this gap in the social pillar and to further roll out the 'housing first' approach. because frankly, homelessness has no place in a prosperous europe. and in your own words, commissioner: it belongs in museums.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the european public prosecutor's office has investigative and prosecutorial powers and therefore institutional safeguards are needed to guarantee its independence and accountability to the union institutions. the eppo is not even in place yet when this first requirement of the independence of prosecutors from their country, the basis of the separation of powers, is knowingly circumvented by the pressure of three member states, belgium, bulgaria and portugal, which are nevertheless expected, as the presidency of the european union, to lead by example and follow the advice of the panel of european experts. the eppo must be able to carry out its anti-fraud and anti-corruption mission without risk of political intrusion. ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming revision of the statute of the european public prosecutor's office gives us the opportunity to turn our indignation into political action and to strengthen these safeguards to ensure the independence of the eppo, in particular by making the opinion of the european selection committee responsible for classifying them binding. and let us remember that this question was already raised when the head of the european public prosecutor's office, laura kövesi, was appointed and that it was the weight of this house that made the difference in blocking the partisan interference of the capitals.
the european union is committed to the protection of the rights of the child and to the protection of the rights of the child, and the european union is committed to the protection of the rights of the child and to the protection of the rights of the child. true friends are those you can count on in times of trouble. rebuilding is the priority now, helping people who are homeless. to this end, there are numerous opportunities provided by european programmes and mechanisms such as the renewal wave and the structural funds. the commission also included earthquake measures and the modernisation of the housing stock. i call on the croatian government to make the most of these opportunities as soon as possible and on the commission to show flexibility in approving projects and programmes that will serve the reconstruction of the devastated area. but for life to return, the people of banja must have something to live on. so, among other things, we need to re-establish the benefits of local people and businesses, and we can't let the politically connected and the connected benefit from that.
the commission has already done so. two earthquakes in one year, the last one was 6.5 on the richter scale. the damage is immense. the challenges facing society are enormous, especially after a crisis year like the last. it is good that we in the union are helping our member croatia together, with funds and with all the solidarity we can muster. how is it possible that the slovenian-croatian nuclear power plant at krško, just 80 kilometres from the epicentre, should not be mentioned in this document? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is it not unreasonable to continue building nuclear power stations in an earthquake zone, precisely where these earthquakes have occurred? even the french nuclear safety agency - and france is not an opponent of nuclear power - expresses its serious reservations. i call on the croatian government to reconsider its position and, for the sake of the people, to refrain from building a second block in krško. this is not what earthquake-proof reconstruction looks like.
the motto of the european union, 'united in diversity', has never made more sense to us. the incredibly rapid action of citizens from croatia and neighboring countries has clearly shown us that in global crises we must look for a way out in solidarity and community. most of the citizens have been housed and provided with the basic necessities of life but now comes the much harder part, which is the restoration of banya. it's an opportunity for green energy renewal and transition that will help reduce energy poverty in the future. the reconstruction process must be comprehensive, high-quality, with an emphasis on earthquake-resistant but also sustainable construction. our priority should be to activate local companies through the reconstruction and to provide the citizens of petrinja, glin, siska, but also all the citizens of banja with the opportunity to work where they live. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of member states in the work of the agency. i call upon you from this place to transfer knowledge and technology to banya. let this earthquake be a new beginning for the areas affected by the earthquakes but also for the whole of croatia and let banja be a positive example of the implementation of the european renewal strategy. thank you to all who have selflessly helped us.
dear chairman, the beautiful country of croatia was overthrown in the last war fought on european soil. the resistance of our citizens and their willingness to make a new beginning has given us the strength to rebuild our country. and then in the middle of croatia's presidency of the council of the european union, there was a pandemic. unfortunately, that was just the beginning. in march of that year, a devastating earthquake leveled the historic city of zagreb. just when we thought this unfortunate year would end with this human tragedy and natural disaster, a terrible earthquake of magnitude 6.4 on the richter scale struck the croatian region of banovina and completely destroyed the city of petrinja. the ground is still shaking, bringing a night of rage to the citizens of croatia. i would like to commend the swift response of the croatian government which, among other things, activated the european civil protection mechanism. this improved mechanism that i was working on once again highlighted the benefits that croatian citizens derive from membership of the european union. i will continue to promote the other essential aspect of european instruments, namely prevention and the redesign of new homes that offer protection to the population against possible future disasters. pilot projects for the safe reconstruction of earthquake-affected areas in croatia can be established through the 'next generation eu' budget and the recently launched 'bauhaus' initiative by commission president von der leyen. this resolution calls on the commission to speed up the process and to show flexibility in providing support to croatia in this difficult situation.
dear chairman, colleagues, the earthquakes have left a sad scene of destroyed homes gone in an instant and according to first estimates, a total of over forty-five thousand structures have been damaged. lives have been lost and i express my deepest sympathy to their families. the government of the republic of croatia has made great efforts to normalize the situation on the ground as soon as possible. 120 million kuna of aid from the state budget was mobilized for the affected areas, a headquarters was established to eliminate the consequences of the disaster caused by the earthquake. all the actors in the civil defense and homeland security system were on the scene, and they did and continue to do an excellent job. i thank everyone, the soldiers, the police, the civil protection, the firefighters, the croatian mountain rescue service, the representatives of the local administration and state institutions and companies, but also the large number of volunteers. thank you to our family in the european union for your selfless help, support and solidarity, but also to all the countries that sent aid to croatia and showed the importance of rapid mobilization, the strength of this instrument, but also of togetherness. and when we talk about physical renovation and house renovation, we have to have economic and demographic revitalization in mind. this is crucial for the future of this area, which is also being considered by the government of the republic of croatia. you know that, madam vice president, you were there. and finally, i thank you, fellow members, for your compassion during the difficult days and today in the debate and for providing much-needed support to all the citizens of croatia. we're following that and appreciating it, thank you very much.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, thank you very much for your speeches. i fully understand the emotion of coming forward and thank you for everything you've said. dear members, this leads me to say that croatia is not alone, and it is important to repeat this here today. europe has always been there in times of crisis, providing assistance, from logistics to supporting emergency services. europe is actively supporting recovery and reconstruction efforts. europe understands the need for targeted measures to get the kind of help it needs to those who need it most. the european union solidarity fund is once again proving its worth. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following companies: the company s.a.s. (s.a.s. group) and the company s.a.s. (s.a.s. group) in the form of a grant of eur 50000000 per year. this is a basic condition for applying for assistance from the european solidarity fund. the croatian authorities have 12 weeks from the date of the disaster to apply for aid from the solidarity fund, and the european commission is ready to help. yes, my fellow councillors, mr. flego, an earthquake has occurred in europe. the earthquake occurred on european soil. all this international solidarity is indeed a source of hope and makes us even more convinced of the importance of the european project. so i once again recalled article 174 of the treaty on european union, which says that no region should be left behind, and this is very important to recall, and it is the duty of the european commission to take this into account. once again, we realise the importance and the real need for an instrument such as the european union solidarity fund. as part of the multiannual financial framework and next generation eu proposals, the european commission proposed a significantly increased budget for this instrument. but the needs are growing, as you know, and the resources are limited. nevertheless, we will endeavour to mobilise all possible means, including financial planning, to ensure that croatia has the appropriate need. we call on the croatian authorities to assess the damage caused by the earthquake as soon as possible. there are a number of structural measures, as you also mentioned, under the cohesion and agricultural development funds, as well as the recovery and resilience mechanism, that can support reconstruction and recovery as well as strengthening resilience and better preparedness, as you also mentioned, when it comes to earthquakes and volcanoes and other natural disasters. last december, i addressed the croatian parliament, the european affairs committee, and informed the members of parliament of our support for the next multiannual financial framework. for the next seven years, croatia will benefit significantly, as you know, from european union funding. croatia will receive a cohesion allocation of eur 8.1 billion, one of the largest of all 27 member states, with an amount of eur 270 per citizen, which amounts to approximately hrk 2100.00. in addition, croatia will receive eur 4,2 billion from the common agricultural policy, which together with the recovery and resilience mechanism amounts to well over eur 20 billion. europe will be here in the future. the commission stands ready to assist croatia in any way it can to achieve a sustainable and comprehensive recovery. my colleagues elisa ferreira, janez lenarčić and i will remain in close contact with the croatian government and will continue to closely monitor the situation on the ground. and in line, once again, with the motto of cohesion policy and the solidarity fund, no region should be left behind, no citizen of the european union should be forgotten.
this conversation is over. i have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure.* the vote will take place today, thursday, january 21, 2021. the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter.
the following joint debate is scheduled: on the report by mrs frances fitzgerald, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the gender perspective of the covid-19 crisis and the post-crisis period (2020/2121 (ini)) (a9-0229/2020), on the report by mrs maria noichlin, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the eu strategy on gender equality (2019/2169 ((ini)) (a9-0234/2020) and on the report of ms maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on closing the digital gender gap: women's participation in the digital economy (2019/2168 (ini)) (a9-0232/2020). i would like to point out again that during this part-session there will be no requested speeches or blue card questions. i would also point out that the speakers can be contacted remotely from the liaison offices of the member states.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs frances fitzgerald, for her speech. i wonder why the council is not here, because in fact this debate specifically concerns not only the commission but also the council. the rapporteur is quite right that these matters should at least be referred to the council through the commission.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. two pieces of good news for society today, and especially for women, two pieces of good news today: donald trump will no longer be in the white house, and the eu will be getting a new gender equality strategy this week. i think this is a good day. what is a strategy for gender equality? i think that first of all we must say that this is again a kind of location for parliament, a location for all of us. today, the majority of democrats in this house are once again clearly and unambiguously positioning themselves. it is positioning itself for a gender-equal society. the majority in this house is clearly and unequivocally opposed to violence against women and girls. and it clearly and unequivocally stands for the obligation to divide participation between the sexes. it's positioning itself for wage equity, wage equality and, of course, for women and men to be equal in value. and we in parliament, we in the majority of democrats in this house, we are very clear in our position for peace between the sexes. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i am sure will be of great help to the commission. and we're positioning ourselves for a humanistic view of the human. the equality strategy is a commitment of this house, a commitment that equality is a value we are fighting for, but also a commitment that equality is far from being achieved. we have an obligation as the eu to become a driver of equality. i would like to make it clear again that violations of the rule of law are also reflected in violations of women's rights. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training. i think that needs to be stressed again and again these days. in addition to this positioning, the strategy for equality is also a very clear distinction between what we do not want, namely: we clearly distinguish ourselves here from the far-right and the old-timers. no, we are not in favour of reducing women to the role of mother. no, we do not have a majority in the european parliament for the automatic headship of the male family and for the family to be only a mother, father and child, but for families of different kinds and different models. we are in favour of a majority in the european parliament that gender is not a word that can be banned or an idea that can be banned just because it cannot be dealt with. we stand for ideas becoming power that cannot be opposed. i remember an old song by a bavarian girl group. they sing: "only he who is himself very, very small, that we wanted to tell you, only he can not bear the growth of women". i wanted to say that to the far right in this parliament. the gender equality strategy is a mandate for the next five years. it is a work plan, a binding work plan, a development plan. these are concrete tasks: it is a matter of control mechanisms and, above all, of reporting obligations. but what exactly is the content? we fight for goals. the content of the gender equality strategy is action, but above that are the objectives. clearly, goal number one: zero tolerance for violence against women. it is important that the ratification of the istanbul convention is finally pushed forward. and it is also important and right - and again, a very big thank you to mrs dalli - that if this does not go ahead, there is a plan b. it is important that additional measures be taken to focus specifically on violence against women and, of course, genital mutilation. the rights of women in the area of sexual and reproductive rights, health and fundamental rights must be enshrined in all member states, and it is important to continue to promote data collection on violence against women. one goal: zero tolerance for violence. the second objective is to put diversity at the centre, lgbti groups, intersectionality and so on and so forth. the third objective is equal pay for men and women, but also for men and women in different sectors. the next objective is participation in leadership. we are very much looking forward to the portuguese presidency of the council doing what germany has not been able to do, namely finally pushing forward the women on board directive and making it a reality in europe and, of course, fighting for parity in the parliaments. we have a goal: we have a goal that crises are handled collectively, that crises are not -- and my previous speaker spoke about this -- are left on the shoulders of women -- that's covid, and it was the financial crisis back then -- that's the goal, that's the focus. we have the goal of tax justice. tax justice: i mean, it's about gender budgeting. the tax money belongs to us all, to men and women, not just men. and we also have the goal in the future that there will always be the demand for regular formal meetings of the ministers for gender equality. in conclusion, i would like to thank all those who have contributed. i would like to thank the democrats in this house who know that there can be no democracy, no rule of law, no development without equality. thank you for your cooperation. i also thank the commissioner, dr helena dalli. i would like to conclude by saying again, quite clearly: europe europe is a woman!
rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that i present to you this report which addresses one of the most important means of gender discrimination in our day: the huge gap in women's participation in the digital economy. this is a social justice issue for women. digital inequality increases the wage gap, with negative consequences also in reforms, and one of the big problems today is the low income of retired women. the competitiveness of the european economy is also at stake, with the main barrier being the lack of skilled workers in new technologies, particularly digital technologies. a huge pool of talent, creativity, competence and capacity for innovation is being wasted. only 18% of information and communication technology professionals in europe are women and if nothing is done, the situation will only get worse as the percentages of students in this field are even weaker. in fact, of the estimated 1.3 million people studying in the ict field, only 17% are girls. the report analyses the data, identifies the potential causes of the current situation and provides solutions in the form of recommendations to the commission, the member states and society at large. as regards the causes, there are two major phenomena which contribute to this reality. on the one hand, for a variety of cultural reasons, girls tend to avoid this area as not a viable career path. on the other hand, many of those who actually follow this path eventually give up along the way, either as students or as professionals, in a phenomenon that has been dubbed the leaky pipeline effect. there's a lot of work to be done. so we propose a set of actions. first, by asking member states to set up entrepreneurship programmes and funding for projects in the ict sectors targeting women and, very importantly, to take gender diversity into account in the evaluation for funding actions supported by the multiannual financial framework and the european recovery plan. secondly, by encouraging companies and other institutions in the ict fields to create conditions to improve the career progression of their professionals. in the field of education, from the earliest levels of education, it is necessary to make girls aware of the importance of these areas, to define contents that are more attractive to them and to present success stories of women who have succeeded and who can serve as a reference in this professional area. we also propose measures in the cultural, media and audiovisual fields. some of these media unconsciously contribute to the perpetuation of certain stereotypes. it is important that they are encouraged to change the way they portray women's relationship with technology, both in the information and fiction sections. combating this digital divide is not the exclusive task of public institutions and bodies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we'll have a single vote, no amendments or any split vote request.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the european parliament for putting gender equality on the agenda today. i also obviously extend my thanks to the rapporteurs and the shadows who have worked on finalising the three reports we are discussing today. every day we continue to discover more about the havoc which the covid—19 pandemic has played, and is playing, on the lives of people who are already in disadvantaged positions in our societies, and about how existing inequalities have been exacerbated. many women, as frontline workers, were at the deep end of this pandemic and thus impacted by it disproportionately. but this is not only at the place of work. while at home, confinement measures have kept many women in abusive and hostile environments. the situation of closed schools and childcare facilities meant more care work for many women. many lost their jobs and thus their financial independence. all this means that we must, more than ever before, step up our work towards equality. it is with this conviction in mind that the commission continues to work with one goal in mind: to do everything in our power not to leave anyone behind. this commission has already taken a number of actions in response to the social and economic consequences of the pandemic. in particular, the eu long—term budget 2021—2027, together with next generation eu, form the largest stimulus package ever financed, through the eu budget, of eur 1.8 trillion. this will promote gender equality through gender mainstreaming and specific targeted measures. in line with its commitment to the gender equality strategy and the interinstitutional agreement, the commission is working on the development of a methodology to track gender—related expenditure at programme level and in the new mff. this will bring significant progress on gender mainstreaming across all eu policies. gender mainstreaming is also at the core of the gender equality strategy, which i presented in march last year. the crisis we are living today has only amplified the importance of this strategy. it has confirmed the need to address core issues such as women’s economic empowerment, violence against women and the gender digital gap, which are all priorities of the gender equality strategy. the first major initiative of the strategy is the proposal to introduce binding pay transparency measures. we are in the final preparation phase and aim to present the proposal shortly. in essence, the purpose is to detect and prevent gender—based pay discrimination or unjustified pay differences and empower those being discriminated against to enforce the right to equal pay. the commission will move forward also with new initiatives on gender equality. by the end of 2021, we will present a legislative proposal to prevent and combat specific forms of gender—based violence. this year we are preparing an initiative to extend the list of eu crimes to include hate speech and hate crime, including on the basis of a person’s gender. these actions will be followed by a recommendation on the prevention of harmful practices against women and girls, such as female genital mutilation, to address the need for effective pre—emptive measures, acknowledge the importance of education and strengthen public services. based on work already started, we will establish a cooperation framework with internet platforms to tackle online violence against women and girls. we are preparing initiatives in the area of childcare and long—term care. we will propose the revision of the barcelona targets on childcare and propose a child guarantee on social inclusion of children from disadvantaged backgrounds, including through affordable and quality early childhood education and care. we will also adopt a comprehensive strategy on the rights of the child, which seeks to ensure equal rights, protection and support to all children regardless of background, origin, gender or residence status. we will publish a report on long—term care, which will also be adopted this year. the report will also analyse the gender dimension of long—term care, including the impact of the provision of informal care. it is essential that we follow up and keep monitoring the development and implementation of the strategy. international women’s day would be a good opportunity to take stock of what has been implemented one year from the adoption of the strategy. the need to address the digital gender gap is absolute. empowering women’s success in the digital economy opens the doors to growth. the under—representation of women in the digital industries persists, as we have heard. women are still not involved as much as they should be in our building of a digital future. this is a huge loss of untapped talent to our economies and societies. more women in digital jobs could create an annual eur 16 billion gdp boost in the eu. for that, we need to encourage girls to study science and technology so that more women choose a career in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, essential areas for developing our digital sphere. the commission has taken various steps to encourage more girls and women in the digital sector by supporting networks and challenging gender stereotypes. these culminated in the ministerial declaration of commitment on women in digital, where member states have now agreed to a number of actions to address the various facets of this problem. the commission will support these efforts under the new mff and next generation eu. our efforts to build a more sustainable economy and society through digital innovation depends to a large extent on women’s involvement. many women’s talents and skills remain untapped. this is a waste of human capital. more women get involved if we start at the root. we must break down stereotypes and bias and encourage girls to choose their parts without influencing them with our biases. we must also give the necessary space for women to thrive in the digital economy and support more women as entrepreneurs and leaders. i strongly believe that this is key to the transition to a resilient and competitive economy, so i look forward now to hearing your remarks and, of course, i remain available to reply to your questions. thank you again, thank you for being here, thank you for your report, and thank you for participating in this debate. (applause)
i'm opening the first votes of the day. we shall vote on the items on today's agenda and the vote will be taken at 9.45 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. the voting procedure is the same as in previous votes and all votes are cast by roll-call. i hereby declare the first votes to be in order. you can vote until 11:00. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue the joint debate on the report by mrs frances fitzgerald, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the covid-19 crisis and the post-crisis period, with a view to gender (2020/2121 (ini)) (a9-0229/2020), on the report by mrs maria noichlin, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the eu strategy on gender equality (2019/2169 ((ini)) (a9-0234/2020) and on the report of ms maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on closing the digital gender gap: women's participation in the digital economy (2019/2168 (ini)) (a9-0232/2020).
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. because there is still a lot of work to be done in europe too. the numbers don't lie. in this fast-changing world, it is nevertheless important to keep women on board. women's talents are still an under-exploited source of expertise and creativity. that's why we need to close the pay gap through pay transparency. that is why we must promote female entrepreneurship, further the fight against violence against women and break gender stereotypes. that is why we must implement the directive on work-life balance. all these issues should be high on the political agenda. to make this happen, we need women at the decision-making table. the directive on women on boards has been frozen long enough. we're already on point. as we digged another glass ceiling yesterday with kamala harris as the first female vice president, i also want to be crystal clear about our damned duty to take political action for women in vulnerable positions, women in poverty, women with disabilities and women as victims of war violence. it's time to act. the 21st century is the woman's century.
president, first of all, i apologize. i was born filip de man. sorry about that. but then, the gender resolution, with 92 recitals and 128 recommendations. gender seems to be the most pressing issue in europe. quod non. what is it? nowhere in the world do women enjoy so many rights. the most important posts here are for ursula von der leyen, christine lagarde, angela merkel. i think we need to stop with the gender thing. i even read recently that the card game should be gender neutral, because the lord is more than the lady. the european anthem will have to be rewritten because alle menschen wurden brüder. why not schwestern? while outside the eu we are dealing with cutting-edge robotics and quantum communication, we are dealing, as in constantinople, with the gender of angels, with the ottomans at our doorstep. it's part of the culture war where the capitalist globalists and the multicultural left are undermining our unique civilization, including through this gender madness, the cancellation culture, the woke activists... but anyway, colleagues, i'll make a point and decide like the black minister in the american congress: a-man and a-woman.
madam president, when it comes to human rights, the eu has two faces. it’s happy to issue statements of concern, passing its judgment on countries around the world, but our support for democracy and human rights is less vociferous when it comes to selling german cars. brave young men and women stand on the front lines of the battle between freedom and autocracy. they include joshua wong, agnes chow and ivan lam, currently in jail for defending the democracy that we all take for granted here. what are we doing to support them? what signal are we sending to them, when we close our eyes and sign an investment agreement with the very regime that is trampling over democracy in its neighbourhood, murdering uighurs and threatening democratic taiwan? what actions will the eu take regarding that investment agreement with china if the prc continues to break human rights and international labour laws? know that hong kong is a test of the resolve of the free world. right now, the eu is shamefully failing that test and i deeply feel ashamed for that?
author. mr president, two years ago this parliament adopted a resolution on the plight of political prisoners in vietnam. almost a year ago, this parliament voted on the eu-vietnam trade and investment treaties. i remember that, faced with sceptics like myself, the defenders of the agreement said that it would improve the human rights situation for the benefit of the whole population. although commitments have been made to reform labour law, the human rights issue in vietnam goes beyond the mere ratification of ilo conventions. since then, the repression has indeed accelerated. commercial policy and human rights are thus two separate issues. not for pham chi dung, president of the association of independent journalists, who was arrested a few days after speaking directly to us with a critical view of the trade agreement ratification process. he was sentenced to 15 years in prison for this, and together with nguyen tuong thuy and le huu minh tuan, who were sentenced to 11 years in prison, he is one of the three journalists for whom we are today calling by a large majority for their unconditional release. the european external action service delegation in hanoi continues to express concern at the conviction of hundreds of other peace activists, confirming a worrying reduction in the area of freedom of expression, assembly and association in the country. our resolution therefore calls for the release of journalists and activists, improved conditions of detention, particularly in the context of the current pandemic, the adoption of a moratorium on the death penalty and a reminder to vietnam of its commitments to its own people, the european union and the international community.
mr president, we have not achieved the target we set ourselves of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty by 20 million by 2020. on the contrary. although the ilo president said a few years ago that work was the best remedy for poverty, that is no longer true for everyone today. the number of working poor is increasing and will continue to increase due to the coronavirus crisis and the growth of precarious jobs where workers have hardly any adequate protection - think of the platform workers. unlike the previous crisis, we can use this health crisis to invest in quality jobs with decent working conditions. our employees earn a fair wage and have the right to a working environment that guarantees the protection of their health and safety. to achieve this, we need a strong involvement of the social partners. the action plan announced for the full implementation of the social pillar will therefore come no sooner than expected to combat the rise in poverty and inequality in the workplace. principle 6 is crystal clear on this. we look forward, commissioner, to the european framework for minimum wages. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. minimum wage works and it's time to make work pay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been convinced of the need for a common debt to meet the emergency. yet, over the months, what was supposed to be a recovery plan became something else. the commission's decision to adopt the regulation is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. and looking at italy, the main beneficiary of this instrument, the risk is that the esteemed professor draghi, and certainly not his multicolored political majority, will not be enough to protect us from these dangers. for these reasons we will abstain and continue to monitor without discount.
mr president, commissioner, madam secretary, when reading the first plans that have come to us, in 'facilitation for recovery and resilience', some member states have retained the word 'facilitation', there is no doubt, but recovery and resilience are not in the mix. facilitation, in particular by avoiding an appeal to local or regional authorities or to citizens to participate fully in this stimulus fund. the commission has also made it easier to recycle files which were already planned and which do not correspond - at any rate at first reading - to the reality of what was set by both parliament and the commission. it is simply easier to do things as before, or even worse, when dealing with certain cases or projects, for example, a courthouse that is to be renovated. so yes, it is urgent to reframe all the member states through the objectives we have set at the level of parliament and the commission, to ensure that this recovery fund can be used for employment, for young people, for all those who are now in despair, to actually offer them a different world and for europe to finally be, for all european citizens, the meeting place of hope and well-being.
but may i ask that we remain calm here? it is very important that everyone respects the speaking time that your group has given you.
madam president, you, mr borrell should have told minister lavrov that he’s wrong. that spain does not have three political prisoners, but has nine. that it cannot be compared to navalny, because he has been sentenced to three and a half years in prison and the catalan leaders have been sentenced from nine to thirteen years in prison for organising a referendum. we have warned that the double standard applied by the eu undermines its global credibility as a defender of freedoms. there are now humiliating consequences for all. the eu cannot go around the world recommending recipes that it does not apply to itself. i want a europe with a strong voice for human rights and without complexes in front of anyone, not only in front of russia, not only in front of the united states, china, morocco or turkey, but with anyone. you are not that voice mr borrell. mr borrell, please do a borrell exit.
madam president, high representative, the human rights situation in russia is deteriorating on an unprecedented scale. thousands of peaceful protesters are being detained and their right to demonstrate is being suppressed without valid legal arguments. large-scale countrywide demonstrations are creating internal problems that are always easier to externalise. as we witnessed last week, russia is not open towards hearing the facts being raised directly, either by their citizens or by foreign representatives. it is easy to conclude that our relations with russia are at a very low point. we should put in use additional targeted sanction measures through a global human rights sanction mechanism and continue seeking options on how to better assist civil society organisations. finally, we have to adopt a new, substantial and comprehensive strategy towards russia. while working on this, the eu should not keep falling into political traps, further narrowing space for our political actions, but rather strengthen common foreign and security policy. energy overdependence, divergent strategies of the member states towards a vaccine, and russia’s very active role in disinformation campaigns and support for anti-european forces should be on our ‘to do’ list for the next council meeting. prevailing particular interests are only a great opportunity for russia to impose further leverage. we should re-examine and put an end to the ongoing projects that undermine the credibility of the european union as a whole.
mr president, the eu representative wanted to teach the russians a lesson, but he came back from a barren trip. lavrov simply said that the eu should not concern itself with internal affairs, and that is a principle that forms the basis of diplomatic relations. it is painful, but mr borrell, of the spanish socialists, does not see the beam in his own eye. he wanted to rally the russians around the navalny trial and the arrest of protesters. however, mr borrell was given a nod by president putin, who was elected with 76% of the vote, more than any eu head of state can say. meanwhile, in the same eu, catalan politicians are in prison or are not even allowed to take their elected seats in the european parliament. and that with the agreement of the president of this parliament, who is also a socialist. the fundamental right to protest should not be taken too seriously either. in my country, 500 people were arrested last week for protesting against the many deprivation of liberty measures taken by the belgian government because of the corona virus. in the netherlands, the government even used violence against innocent protesters who were standing up for their freedoms. i just want to say, mr. borrell: sweep your own front door before you wave your moralizing finger anywhere else.
madam president, mr borrell, where are the european union's cocks? i have to ask. i must also ask where you met your head. dit was een ramp. everyone knew that moscow was a disgrace, but it was still going on. you were warned that lavrov was not to lead. why did you see me? i was also invited to a press conference. two more times . first by onze bondgenoot de vs aan te vallen en de tweede keer by het russische spoetnikvaccin de hemel in te prijzen voordat het in europe toegestaan was. this is a very important point, and i think it is important that we should be able to make a statement on this. the eu should be aware that russia's vaccines will be used as its energy is used: as a cynical weapon, we'll get you out. they will never be taken seriously as long as they are only met with words. autocrats have only respect for data. so, monsieur borrell, there is only one way you can make this ramp: i'm going to give you a whole package of poetins kleptocracy. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von der leyen, i am a little surprised today. it is clear that the vaccine campaign was the biggest challenge alongside the economic recovery of the european union for 2020 and 2021 and, as colleagues before me have recalled, the commission has played a lot and is playing a lot on this campaign. whether you wanted to or not, you took the stage, you promised that joint management would bring benefits and a solution to the problem as soon as possible, but it did not. today i would have expected you, president von der leyen, to explain in detail what went wrong, because it is obvious to everyone that something went wrong, and to explain in detail what the commission will do to make up for lost ground. instead, she began her speech by reminding us of some of the supposed successes of this vaccination campaign, and she even mentioned my country, which was one of the hardest hit. but these achievements are only felt here, the citizens and the governments are not feeling them. the spectacle we have seen in recent weeks of contrasts and disagreements, even within the college of commissioners, has not been one of admitting one's mistakes and starting over. i 've been here for seven years now and i 've realized one thing: i believe that the european union's greatest weakness is its inability to recognise its mistakes and to correct its course in time. unfortunately, it was done with some rules and with some choices that we faced with the eurozone debt crisis in 2010, and today, unfortunately, my impression is that it is also done on this vaccine campaign. i do not need to remind you of the importance of two aspects in particular. the first is health, which is what we care about most, as my colleagues before me remembered: the sooner we implement this campaign, the more lives we'll save. the other aspect, secondary but equally important, is that of the economy: we know that the first to get vaccinated will be the first to get out of this crisis. the data tells us that compared to our competitors outside the european union, compared to the united kingdom, the united states, india, china and israel, we are currently several weeks behind. a few days ago, some analysts estimated that the additional damage from these delays was worth 90 billion euros. i would like to see something, president von der leyen: i would like to ask you to be very clear about your mistakes, because everyone makes mistakes, we are not infallible, and this is certainly a complex management, and you should tell us clearly what concrete steps you want to take. you have set yourself an ambitious target of vaccinating 70% of the european population by september, but in view of the state of affairs it seems to us to be an unrealistic target at the moment. so, with a lot of realism, tell us clearly what the achievable objectives are, and why an entity like the european union, which has so many professionals and well-paid lawyers, is not able to draw up a contract or get the pharmaceutical companies to respect it. because it is clear that there is a problem if a union, which is a geopolitical power, cannot enforce the contracts it writes for certain multinationals. this is a big problem. so i expect realism, i expect clear objectives, whatever they may be, and unfortunately we will have to assess once again, in my view, the fact that the european union among the parts of the developed world will still be the last to emerge from this crisis. this is an element of deep reflection.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, four months ago it was still uncertain when we would have a safe and reliable vaccine on the market. now three have already been authorised in europe and more are expected. this is indeed a marvellous achievement. however, we must now look at the things that need to be urgently improved and, most importantly, we need to ramp up production – not just by a little, but by a lot! and, yes, that should have been done earlier. and, yes, that costs a lot of money. but continuing in and out of lockdowns for months on end will also come at a tremendous cost. we also need to draw lessons concerning the transparency of the contracts the eu made with those pharma companies. in order to strengthen public trust and allow for democratic control – also of this very parliament – we need to have full transparency of the contacts. and yes, dear commission, dear colleagues, we also need to be self—critical. this crisis has painfully demonstrated the value of public research and of good public healthcare systems – areas that have been constantly thrown under the bus in an attempt to save money in recent years. now we see how lethal such an ideology of austerity can be. let’s learn together and invest in our resilience, and in our social fabric of public services, education and digitalisation. but we cannot pay attention to only our own well-being. we have a responsibility in the world. while the rich countries are buying up vaccines and fighting over who gets the doses first, some regions of the world risk being totally left behind and of getting their shots with years of delay. that is a real catastrophe. nobody is safe until everyone is safe. vaccines need to be accessible and affordable. we must do everything in our power to scale up production massively and ensure a just, global distribution. this is possible under wto rules, and i wish the european commission would be more supportive in using this flexibility. intellectual property and bureaucratic barriers should not stand in the way of ensuring a more rapid and equal distribution globally. overcoming the pandemic will unfortunately still take time, and we cannot relax efforts to limit the spread of the virus, especially given the new variants. but reducing cases massively will not happen as long as some liberties are allowed in some eu countries, while forbidden in other countries, like ski resorts or shopping centres. it will also not happen as long as testing and tracing efforts remain highly disproportionate across member states. of course, no single approach will work for everyone, but we will not overcome the pandemic while retreating to international egoisms. yes, the ambition to tackle this crisis together and to deliver the vaccines together, ensuring equal access for all eu citizens, was – and remains – the right recipe. i therefore urge the portuguese presidency to continue in this spirit of cooperation and to ensure that member states come closer together in implementing common guidelines to contain covid—19.
mr president, madam president, the european union should defend the abolition of intellectual property rights in vaccines available on the market, as is permitted by the world trade organisation agreement governing these matters. there are two good reasons for this. the first is that all the capabilities of the pharmaceutical industry in all countries of the world must be mobilized to accelerate the process of vaccination globally, because the health crisis and the resulting economic crisis is global. it would make no sense to vaccinate only a part of the planet. and the compulsory licences under article 31 of the agreement on intellectual property aspects are not enough. but there's a second reason. manon aubry talked about it, these vaccines were paid for mostly by public funds: eight trillion dollars out of the 14 trillion dollars that their overall development cost, and 2,000 by philanthropy. as ellen t. hoyn said, it was unwise of our governments to hand over this public money unconditionally. the suspension of the patent should have been a condition for receiving public funding. but now we can correct this grave error if the union accepts the lifting of the patent at the world trade organisation and does not oppose it when the countries of the south are now demanding it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i understand everyone who is frustrated, angry and tired because we still have to adhere to these strict measures. but as an expert in germany recently said, unfortunately, the virus is not tired. it's even been boosted by the mutations. and we are seeing this in portugal now: if you loosen up too quickly and too soon, it gets bad. and that's why we all have to follow the measures. and we need to do better at the border. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. open borders are a noble goal, but we have a dangerous mutation of the virus here three even and that is why we need to put more pressure to protect europe as a whole, but also to look more closely at the regions, to have controls that the mutations do not spread too quickly. on the subject of vaccines, i want to dispel two myths. it is always said that europe has ordered too late. but first, the fact is that the responsibility for this is primarily with the most important vaccine from biontech, the pfizer company. pfizer has refused - and this has been written about many times by astute journalists - to accept the right of every european to sue if the company makes a mistake. and i would like to see someone say: i want europeans to have no right to sue a company that makes a serious mistake when you are harmed. i want someone to stand up and say, "i don't care about the law anymore". the commission has not done so, and it cannot be criticised for that, ladies and gentlemen. and then they say it was too little money. it is always the 2.7 billion from the esi that is mentioned. but if you add up the money that the member states are already spending to pay for vaccines, the esi comes to 22 billion. so not everything went perfectly, but a lot of things are twisted, and the basic decision was right. we must come together as europeans to overcome this crisis, and we should continue to uphold that, ladies and gentlemen!
madam president, madam president of the commission, we are with you when you point out that 27 different contracts, 27 different prices, 27 different conditions of access instead of a single european contract would have led us to a much more chaotic situation than we are in today. we stand by you when you recall that in the uk, fewer british citizens have been vaccinated with two doses than, on average, in the european union. the so-called delay of the european union vis-à-vis the united kingdom is simply due to the fact that we have followed the procedures. we have followed the advice of the european medicines agency and are vaccinating with two doses to fully vaccinate european citizens, not partially. while more british citizens are half vaccinated, they are not vaccinated - when you look at the full figures, more europeans are vaccinated than the average briton. we are with you, but we are also demanding, madam president. that is why we have been calling for more transparency since september. we are very pleased with the contact group you have announced. we are delighted that with stella kyriakides, thierry breton is now working with the laboratories every day to produce more. because that's what it's all about: producing more, producing more. it is not enough, mrs aubry, to put the patent in the public domain to have the technical solutions to produce more. it's obviously the ease of it and it doesn't solve anything. nevertheless, madam president, we want even more transparency on contracts, of course, that has been mentioned. but also on the data month by month, on the number of doses expected state by state to reach our collective goal of vaccinating more than half of the adult population by summer. these figures are not public. how do you want european citizens to know what is the credible path to this goal if these figures are not public? only three states have made them public - denmark, sweden and france. what's everybody else doing? it is also a strong request from the european parliament to you and to the governments in each of the member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, major crises reveal the effectiveness or inefficiency of an organisation. failing in the 2008 financial crisis, failing in the 2015 migration crisis, failing in the beginning of the health crisis with no anticipation and no coordination of action by the member states, the european union promised us that it would catch up on vaccines. the european commission has centralised the ordering and distribution of vaccines. but all the countries that have organised themselves outside the european union are doing better today. the uk has 12 million vaccinated, while france, spain and italy have barely reached the two million mark. germany was cautious in purchasing doses in addition to the european bulk order. hungary has had the ability to buy vaccines from russia and china. but many countries, including france, are tied up in the scheme spearheaded by the european commission. as always, when the european institutions fail, the technocrats try to pin blame on the wrongdoers. in the face of the slow delivery of astrazeneca, mrs von der leyen, you have decided to temporarily re-establish the border between ireland and northern ireland to block exports. you have thus reopened with incredible levity the wounds of the irish conflict. and to top it all off, you tried to blame it on your own commerce commissioner. the absurdity of the european union's position towards russia can also be underlined. for almost seven years you have imposed sanctions on russia, the consequences of which we are suffering, particularly in relation to our agricultural products. seven years later, at the beginning of the crisis, we were forced to call on russian large aircraft carriers to supply masks by airbridge between china and europe. and now, after having expressed doubts about the sputnik vaccine, we're going to be forced to beg for it. what about the pathetic performance of high representative josep borrell in moscow in recent days? he had nothing to offer, so he got nothing. what a mixture of arrogance and ignorance to demand navalny's pardon and access to the sputnik vaccine without offering any consideration. then asking for additional sanctions adds the grotesque to the humiliation. the opacity of contracts, the inability to enforce them, the delays in deliveries, the ridiculous diplomacy... your repeated fiascos unfortunately show that there is as little european strategy as there is no strategist. europeans didn't deserve to go through this on top of the health crisis.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the swedish government under stefan löfven has given away the right to procure coronavirus vaccine to the eu. the european commission is now responsible for buying the vaccine. like everything else the eu is responsible for, this too now looks like a major problem. we see this clearly now that countries outside the eu, such as israel, canada and the uk, have access to vaccines from german biontech and pfizer. we already know what the commission will say in explanation. they will say that we need a health union and that the failure was only because the eu has too little power, as usual. it is tragic that prime minister löfven not only supports this commission but also wants to give it even more power. the european commission's negotiating strategy on vaccine procurement came too late and was too focused on price rather than delivery terms. the astonishing thing is that the commission is on the one hand critical of the price of the vaccine, which can save lives, but on the other hand it is putting forward the largest budgets in the history of the eu, which are being wasted. sweden, which is among the hardest hit by the pandemic, will also provide other eu countries with rescue packages that go to the national wage in spain or bridges in italy. it's lives we're trying to save, not the euro. the commission wanted to take strong action against covid-19 but failed to secure the supplies. that is why sweden today has a shortage of vaccines and is lagging far behind many non-eu countries in vaccinating its citizens. the sweden democrats clearly want sweden to take responsibility for the vaccine strategy.
mr. president, thousands of people are still dying every day from covid-19. however, we now have a vaccine. my common sense says: let's make sure this gets to as many people as possible as soon as possible. let's make sure that this is produced by as many companies as possible. it's about sharing knowledge and technology and spreading the vaccine faster than the virus. instead, we see that the big pharmaceutical companies refuse to cooperate on patents and intellectual property. we have paid for basic research at the university and for the production and development of the vaccine with european money. we even took an investment risk: the commissioner called it "the risk". and yet these companies refuse to share. billions in profits for them, too few vaccines for us. in belgium, the vaccination strategy is stalled today because the companies are not delivering. the shareholders' hunger for profit is costing lives. let us oblige the big pharmaceutical companies to share their knowledge, commissioner. less dividends for the shareholders, but more vaccines for all of us. no profit on pandemic!
i have been a member of this parliament for more than a year and a half, mr president, and i have had 25 years of experience in various other parliaments. i've never seen a more flawed inspection system than this one. i immediately requested access to the contract with astrazeneca. this request was refused after the deadline for reply had been extended several times. i have voluntarily appealed to the commission, but i have never received a reply to that either. the appeal was lodged on 29 october and is obviously out of date, since the contract has been published. i, like several colleagues, have submitted several written requests for access to the commission's vaccine procurement policy and vaccination strategy. these have also yielded no or disappointing answers. president von der leyen has said that trust is based on transparency. i would therefore ask her to answer the following pertinent questions: have the drug manufacturers merely given a commitment of effort or have they made enforceable agreements? what are the quantities and delivery dates? should member states fully exempt the manufacturers of medicinal products from liability? in view of the export ban and the imposition of a border between ireland and northern ireland, albeit temporary, in breach of the withdrawal agreement: do the contracts contain a priority clause or a most favoured nation clause in favour of the eu? how does the eu intend to increase supply now that the export control system is causing delays in the chain? i am thinking, for example, of the complex project for the multiple supply of johnson & johnson. finally, how does the commission intend to fulfil itself the commitment of effort it has made to astrazeneca and to make every possible effort to help with the production difficulties as contractually stipulated?
madam president, madam president of the commission, you should have, there was only one. we have heard criticism of you and the commission this morning. i assure you, if you had not been as prudent as you ought to have been, you would not have heard the same cry, but would have screamed to tell you that you were unwise, that you were hasty. i say thank you, thank you for the food, even if today it's not enough. thank you on behalf of all the member states that would not have been able to buy a single dose of vaccine for their citizens. thanks to europe, thanks to unity, thanks to solidarity, we have been able, and you have been able, to make european citizens believe in europe and believe in this much-needed solidarity. of course, the vaccine is the first step towards the economic recovery we all want. our economies are intertwined, the reality of the virus requires that we show solidarity tomorrow. i really ask you to use all the levers you have to prevent certain member states from playing it alone, whether it is hungary, germany or others, to avoid leaving this field of solidarity. that would make no sense in relation to the values we are defending at european level. it would also make no economic sense, since our economies are interconnected. we must win this fight against the virus. we can only achieve this together through the action of the commission.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. it is good that we want to limit the omnipotence of the platforms, but the "notice and action" system will lead to censorship because of the mechanism for reporting, knowledge and liability. the platforms will pull each post through their algorithm, resulting in hyper-politically correct censorship, as was the case with facebook. the eu should take freedom of expression as a starting point and impose a universal service obligation on these platforms. the platforms are the post office and the letter boxes of the 21st century. the censorship must be limited to an exhaustive list of serious cases. the rest is for the courts to decide, as is the right of a state governed by the rule of law. i come from one of the few countries where censorship is constitutionally prohibited. let that be the guiding principle for the european union.
madam president, what we hear today is that we as a chamber are sometimes somewhat inconsistent in our calls to platforms, and thus by this we risk becoming irrelevant. we urged the platforms to act during the rohingya case in 2016 when thousands of people were killed, but in 2021, when five people were killed in the capitol attacks, we asked the platforms why did you act and silence trump? so the problem, i think sometimes, is that we often call for different things. i accept that platforms should not have the right to easily silence a president, of course, but what are the rules that would make this impossible in the future? i believe our job is to create them, and we are indeed on the right track. but in order to create them, we need to make sure we have clear definitions and visions of how we actually treat platforms. do we consider them to be media? are they a type of providers similar to cable tv operators? or are they simply an environment in a place where everything is possible and can happen? i think we need a coherent definition of that, and only then could we perhaps be consistent in our calls and, most importantly, successful in our efforts to create a just and a good environment, good rules for platforms that most importantly safeguard our fundamental rights and values.
madam president, freedom of the press has been in the spotlight for a reason in recent years. you can imagine that years ago, before social media, newspapers and news programs would be all over the place, spreading false information, wrong information. maybe it was the advertisers who got the message, not the reporters, the reporters, the anchors. today, however, the individual has a variety of verified and unverified information channels to serve him in the creation of truth. i am very concerned about how easy it is to publish a complete lie and disinformation and not take any responsibility for it, claiming that it is about freedom of speech and thus discrediting the target of the attack. these and similar posts, attacks, insults are mostly used today by the populist right, which with its autocratic tendencies undermines democracy and flouts fundamental human rights. they even see the free media as their enemy rather than a fundamental aspect of a free society. one of the more effective tactics of disinformation has been the party appropriation of new media that serve exclusively to promote party ideology. unfortunately, this practice is being used by more and more politicians who smear and spread untruths about their political opponents, including in slovenia, the slovenian prime minister. of course, it is normal to have different views and beliefs. when constructive dialogue is replaced by lies and offensive or even hostile rhetoric, our democracy is truly in danger. that's when things go so far, there's a coup like the one that happened at the capitol. we are at the crossroads between freedom of expression and individual rights of expression, and i strongly welcome the action plan presented by the european commission.
mr president, social media today is what printing was in the middle ages: a tool for citizens to express their views and defend their interests. but as in the past, the ruling elite responds with censorship and repression to determine the truth under the guise of fighting so-called fake news. but a truth that needs to be protected by censorship is a lie. the aim is to criminalise resistance to unwanted migration and multicultural inter-population under the guise of combating so-called hate speech. but like a mother caring for her children, this resistance is not out of hatred for what is foreign, but out of love for what is one's own. a democracy cannot exist without freedom of speech. it's not a matter of left or right, or agreeing or disagreeing; that's a fundamental right that protects us all from tyranny. censorship on social media must therefore be punished. we must break the oligarchy of silicon valley to protect the fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms of our citizens and our democracy.
mr president, there is no finish line when it comes to equality. it is a daily battle to ensure that the rights that we have gained are not lost again. despite the progress made in the 25 years since the beijing declaration, the lives of millions of women around the world remain painfully unchanged. as we all grow older, we notice that there is little change, little progress. for example: less pay when you have equal competences, just because you are not a man; no promotion because you are a mother or can become one; no education because you are a girl; sterilised or raped just because ‘they’ can; forced into a marriage; a survivor of female genital mutilation; death from a backstreet abortion because the state says you don’t have the right to make a decision regarding your own body. the global fight for equality is at the beginning, we are nowhere near its end. this parliament must be a voice for everyone, fighting for a better, more equal future. we should all build bridges towards each other, with a better future for all women.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mrs larive, on behalf of the committee on women's rights, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). in some areas progress has indeed been made. however, research by the eige has shown that progress is painfully slow and that much work remains to be done. at the present rate, it would take 60 years to eliminate gender inequality. this is unacceptable, especially in the current corona crisis, which is hitting women proportionately harder. so we must not only be careful to make a dent, but above all to be careful not to turn back the clock. we must be militant to prevent the crisis from being used to roll back gender gains, as well as social gains. i would therefore urge the commission and the member states to finally work towards ratification of the istanbul convention, to raise awareness of the gender pay gap and the directive on female drivers, and to work towards combating gender stereotypes and the rapid transposition of the directive on work-life balance. let's not wait for the golden jubilee to do what we have to do.
author. mr president, the appalling fate of paul rusesabagina must be seen against the backdrop of the transnational repression by the rwandan regime of opponents in exile. the united nations human rights council last month recommended that rwanda put an end to extrajudicial executions, enforced disappearances, arbitrary detentions and deaths in custody. in addition, rwanda was recommended to ratify the international convention for the protection of all persons from enforced disappearance. this last one happened to paul rusesabagina. the rwandan authorities should provide an explanation on the circumstances of paul rusesabagina's involuntary crossing from dubai to kigali and the period of incommunicado detention. the criticism of his regime by the iconic hero of hotel rwanda, who has now acquired belgian nationality and resides in the united states, was particularly opposed by president kagame. there are therefore serious doubts as to whether paul rusesabagina will ever receive a fair trial in rwanda. the eu must therefore demand his immediate release and safe return. in the meantime, mr rusesabagina should be able to have recourse to lawyers of his own choice, to communicate freely with his family and to receive the necessary medical assistance. the eu delegation and the member states' embassies in rwanda should closely follow this process, which is based on fabricated accusations, and the european union should step up the human rights dialogue with rwanda. don't leave our fellow man behind!
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the ecr group strongly condemns the violence in tigray. we support international calls for swift and unconditional access to the whole region for humanitarian aid, independent human rights monitors and the media. the vast majority of the six million inhabitants of tigray have been without adequate food, water and medicine for weeks. two million civilians are reported to have been driven from their homes. in the north, the harvest is said to have been burned. elsewhere farmers have abandoned their fields. it seems that the ethiopian government is deliberately withholding food in order to starve people. central and east tigray are on the brink of famine. recent promises of humanitarian access have been insufficient and uncertain. there are continued reports of violations of international humanitarian law, such as the deliberate shelling of civilian targets, extrajudicial executions and widespread looting. it’s also reported that sexual violence is a weapon of war in this conflict. the offensive by the ethiopian government army against tigray has rekindled the old conflict with sudan over the al-fashaqa border region and eritrean troops are also said to be active in tigray. it should not be forgotten that repression by the federal government is also taking place elsewhere in the country, such as oromia, ethiopia’s largest state. the european union, together with other international partners, must play their part to help end this conflict and reform the ethiopian state, something supported by its many diverse populations. the ethiopian prime minister should not only give his nobel prize back but also return his country to the principles of peace and democracy.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention today to the murder of david polfliet in belgium. he was 41 years old. he had been trapped by young boys who attacked him and killed him because he was gay. so i’m using this opportunity to say that love is love, and nobody should die for who they are. please join me in sharing the pain of his family, and wishing for more justice in our member states. (applause)
mr president, an ambitious climate policy, which we support, must always take account of the competitiveness of our companies, the preservation of our jobs and the pocketbooks of the citizens. remember the yellow vests. a carbon cap tax can help protect our companies from carbon leakage. but we are asking, commissioner, for a very thorough impact assessment of the various member states, of the various sectors, as well as of the purchasing power of the citizen and of the existing trade agreements. and the carbon cap tax should be embedded in the wto policy framework. it cannot be protectionist. finally, we ask you to speak to the united states now that the carbon limit correction mechanism seems to be a priority, or at least an intention, of the new president.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. our companies must be transparent and careful in their entire supply chain. unfortunately, the many voluntary initiatives to which i would like to pay tribute have not produced satisfactory results. so there must be binding rules. but, commissioner, do not make our companies a global target by reversing the burden of proof. do not delegate the responsibilities of local governments to our companies. do not impose on our smes expensive, burdensome obligations that cannot be met. i therefore ask you to make a thorough impact assessment of our large companies. clear commitments of effort without reversing the burden of proof and support for our smes with a foothold, rather than measures that hinder their internationalisation.
mr president, commissioner, today we are taking a big step. with eu4health we are supporting member states, greece, cyprus, and they in turn will have the opportunity to strengthen the resilience of national health systems and to integrate innovative treatments and practices. the €5.1 billion may be just the beginning, but it's a great beginning in the pillar of european health that didn't exist before the pandemic. the greeks say that no evil is pure good. through the pandemic, we managed in the health sector first of all to jointly order medical supplies, then to further strengthen the research that led to the vaccine, and of course to jointly order vaccines, a great achievement, parallel to the recovery fund. we must now move to the next stage: the prevention and early detection of the diseases that afflict europe, that afflict each and every one of us: cancer, heart disease, diabetes. let me specifically record my interest in invisible cancer, childhood cancer. the eu4health programme we are voting on today can fund the initiative by helping children with cancer, so that all children have access to early and optimal detection, diagnosis, treatment and care. it can support the exchange of best practices and standards of care for children with cancer and thus complement the actions implemented by the new european reference networks. i would like to say that in my country, greece, prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis has already announced a major step: the registration of childhood cancer cases in a special register. together with eu4health, we have the opportunity at this time to support all the children who are fighting so that no one is left behind. all the kids are winners.
madam president, we in the s&d group share the ambition and we welcome this historically strong and comprehensive health strategy. given the current health crisis and the enormous challenge that our member states and we as a union are facing, with the adoption of the eu4health programme, which is ten times bigger than the previous health programmes, europe is sending a clear signal that we are doing everything in our power to increase the protection of the health of the citizens. ultimately, this is about finding solutions that bring the most value into the lives of our citizens. eu4health is an important step in the direction to ensure that people in europe can benefit from high quality, accessible, safe, equal and affordable healthcare. it is crucial that we do not forget the deeper underlying structures and factors that impact public health. we know that there are strong social, economic and lifestyle patterns that have clear impact on the health of citizens. this also includes the current health inequalities and unequal access to healthcare that persist in europe. the s&d group fully stands behind the importance of promoting access to sexual and reproductive healthcare. this is a human right and we will not allow anyone to try to rob this from the people of europe, to rob freedom from europe. therefore, the s&d group also welcomes the 20% of the resources under the programme that has been reserved for health promotion and disease prevention measures. this is also closely linked to the important work that the union must do in supporting and strengthening the national healthcare system by improving their resilience and their resource efficiency. we also welcome that the member states can perform stress testing on their national healthcare systems as a means to see what can be possibly further improved as well as the facilitation of best practice. this agreement will also support the development of medical products that is less harmful for the environment.
madam president, commissioner, €5.1 billion for a europe of health that is taking off, so to speak, is the extraordinary result our negotiators have achieved. i would therefore like to thank our rapporteur, mr christian buşoi, and our commissioner, mrs kyriakides, on behalf of us all. the time has come when health was relegated to the second division of european policies. the covid-19 pandemic has tragically shed light on the shortcomings of our healthcare systems. eu4health is committed to change the game. i'll try not to repeat everything that's already been said. 20% of the budget is now devoted to disease prevention and health promotion, with particular attention to health: tobacco, alcohol dependence, without falling into prohibition. we are also making progress in building up european stocks of essential crisis products, everything that we have actually lacked: medicines, equipment, devices. a strong demand, a repeated demand of our parliament from the beginning, 12.5% of the budget, or 637 million euros, will be dedicated to them. a crisis, madam commissioner, which has shown, as we have said and said again, our dependence on china, on india. europe must take back control of the production tool to overcome this shortage of medicines, which, however, largely predates the events of this year. in 2008, europe created the innovative medicines initiative (imi), one of the most ambitious private-public partnerships in the world for innovative medicines. it must now simply do the same for old medicines, often considered not to be profitable enough by certain pharmaceutical companies, i will not name names, but the waiting patients will recognize themselves. a final word to conclude, with reference to the demographic ageing that has begun in europe, the over 80s represent 6% of the population, europe clearly needs to rely on telemedicine if online health is to reach our isolated and connected elders. acting for our seniors is also the europe we want.
mr president, madam commissioner, what is conceivable is clearly stated. and whatever one may think, article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on public health is clear. it defines the necessary health cooperation between european states, with union action complementing, supporting and improving the complementarity of national policies for disease prevention. this action also includes the fight against major diseases such as epidemics, by promoting research into their causes, transmission, prevention and the necessary information, as well as the monitoring of serious crossborder threats by disseminating alerts and recommendations to be implemented. on the basis of this article, which we considered to be more than sufficient, many existing texts, which were also sufficient, should have enabled the european union to deal with the covid pandemic. but alas, 15 months after the crisis began, it is clear that nothing has worked in time. no ad hoc agency, not even the drug agency, with irresponsible authorizations of treatments like remdesivir or cdce on the side, is on the alert with three weeks delay, nor the european parliament in the control and the requirement of rapid results of studies funded for more than a year, nor especially the european commission in the negotiation of vaccines. nothing protected the europeans. the text we are voting on today is not working. this new version of the union's action in the field of health is going in all directions, in a total confusion of objectives and actions, but certainly by further reducing the independence of the states in their prerogatives. and this is the case with all the binding health regulations which are increasing and strengthening in the present emergency. the fact that the current crisis is being exploited by decision-makers who are completely overwhelmed by the burden of the existing mechanisms - which would be largely sufficient if they had been properly activated - is extremely worrying as regards the added value of the european union to the states.
president. - we are voting today on a european health programme. that is important and it contains an important principle: health in all policies. health everywhere, in all policies. i'm glad that's the case, but i hope we'll take it seriously. because it is difficult to talk about the importance of health and then to undermine or weaken the health of people with other policies. the current european policy, let us be clear about this, is undermining health in many ways. let me give you an example. save the health care system from collapsing. yeah, that's what caused health care workers to run out of gums before the pandemic even started, or people to delay doctor visits. or we can think of the european policy of flexibility in the labour market. they make our lives a rat race, that we have to work harder and harder, more and more flexible, until we're too sick to enjoy our retirement.
mr president, syria is a cautionary tale. it shows that the cost of inaction can be higher than the cost of action. it also shows that when america and her allies leave a vacuum, then it’s filled by malign actors – putin, erdogan, the islamic state. now, syria is both a no-man’s land and the site of a proxy war. europe has been unable to act against atrocities committed in our neighbourhood. we have been confronted by the limits of our famous soft power when dealing with autocrats. but we have also seen the consequences of our incapacity from the migration crisis to the radicalisation of so-called foreign fighters using isil propaganda. but even today, syria cannot look to the future until a political solution is found. here we have to accept that the un-led peace processes have failed. it’s now time for new thinking after a decade of failure.
madam president, mr executive vice-president, madam president-in-office of the council, this parliament is debating - and i hope it will adopt today - two important reports, which are key at this time of uncertainty, and even doubt, about the economic development of the union as a whole. and i would first of all like to thank my colleagues lina gálvez in the committee on employment and social affairs and joachim schuster in the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the excellent work they have done in reaching a broad consensus which will allow this house to have a clear voice in the debate that the commission and the council are having on the implementation of the european semester and also on budgetary rules. and i would also like to thank, of course, my colleague markus ferber for his effort to reach last minute compromise amendments to support the report on the european semester. it comes at a crucial moment when the union has, in a way, broken with old conceptions. for the first time in history, the union is going to issue community debt, common debt, to finance recovery. for the first time too, the commission has proposed not to apply the budgetary rules during these times of crisis. we welcome the maintenance of this rule for at least the next year and until the recovery is firm, and we believe that we should take advantage of these months to thoroughly revise the budgetary rules, because no one believes any more that we can go back to the old rules and we need to provide the union as a whole with a countercyclical budgetary policy that is sustainable.
president, europe is currently undergoing a full vaccination campaign against the coronavirus. and as prime minister rutte said this week: we are on our way to the finish line, to a more normal life where everyone has more breathing space, the breathing space we crave so much so that our economy can recover as well. we are talking today about the european semester. this is an important cycle of coordination of economic and budgetary policies within the european union. and it must remain so, especially in these difficult economic times. the question is: how can we restore the european economy as quickly as possible while keeping spending under control? we must find a good balance here. that means that we must think about how and in what timeframe and that we can tighten up the budgetary rules again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has shown solidarity with countries that have been hit hard by the coronavirus crisis over the past year, and i think it is right. if the economy recovers sufficiently, we also need to return to normal fiscal rules, simply to make countries more resilient. we need to vaccinate people, rebuild the economy. that's how we get to the finish line, that's how we get to a more normal life.
madam president, commissioner, our fellow europeans have just experienced a year of health, social and economic crises. it is clear that we cannot run the european semester and apply the rules of stability as we did before. this position was defended and adopted by a very large majority in the opinion of the committee on budgets on the european semester. this european semester is of course essential to the convergence of economic policies necessary for the functioning of the internal market but since its inception many challenges have emerged. that is why we in the committee on budgets are calling for better consideration of social issues in connection with the recovery of employment, environmental priority, greater fiscal coordination, poverty reduction and gender equality. in this respect, i would like to say with my colleague sylvie brunet that the priority is to significantly reduce the gaps in employment between women and men and to improve the situation of young people who are neither in education nor in employment. it is also a priority to combat poverty and social exclusion and to address their root causes. we must also pay attention to the working conditions of some of the workers who are under severe strain and who have been indispensable to us during the crisis. this rebound, this new impetus, will be supported by a multiannual budget and an ambitious european recovery plan, offering member states funding opportunities for the environmental and social dimension of the european union.
madam president, if we want to regain the growth we lost long before the health crisis, and if you want this growth to be sustainable, liberate and protect, then both conditions must be met. we need to unlock our economy and allow our businesses to reach their full potential without crushing them with taxation and overregulation. the recent decisions on the european budget have shown a real leap forward: systematic budget increases, the introduction of own resources, not to lighten the contribution of the states, but to further increase the tax burden. in addition, your imposition of ever more demanding environmental constraints and standards, with a green pact for europe with unrealizable objectives, obviously weighs heavily on our companies, our industries and our farmers and producers. if you were to impose these standards on our competitors, you would have to agree to protect our economy, to get rid of the globalised free trade which creates unfair competition and holds back our growth. it is not a question of overtaxing all incoming products, but simply of setting up customs barriers when necessary, as most countries in the world know how to do, to finally defend our local products. the current portuguese presidency of the european union, and some in this house, are still calling for the swift conclusion of the trade agreement with the mercosur countries. i hope, of course, for the sake of our farmers that it will be buried once and for all. the only effect of insisting on being the best pupils in the ecology class will be to render us impotent and weak at the mercy of the aggressive strategies of countries which have neither our complexes nor our powers and to whom you have opened up our market.
madam president, during this legislature this house has not yet managed to pass a single resolution regarding the economic aspect of the european semester. the reason is simple. the rules binding the semester are not accepted by all as economically and socially effective. regions, economic agents and political factions experience the process as an arbitrary system of governance. in the meantime, many believe that the draconian approach to semester rules has been the cause of increased poverty and dwindling public spending in crucial areas like health and education. the root of the problem has been a ‘one size fits all’ methodology supposedly designed to promote a level playing field. it suits major eu regions and economic models to the disadvantage of others. even now, assistance programmes and allowed exceptions are favouring regions which economically are most resilient to crisis. so, for instance, the handicaps carried by insular peripheral regions of the eu are still being underestimated. we need a socially charged reform of the semester process, based on a tailor-made approach that reflects the separate needs of the different regions and communities of the union.
madam president, we have long been aware that, despite many strategies and initiatives, the gender pay gap persists. in the european union, the figure is 14 percent. this is followed by pension inequality. women are thus disadvantaged not only during their working lives, but later during their retirement, the retirement period, they become vulnerable to poverty. of course, the causes of this situation are complex, ranging from a higher representation of women in lower-paid sectors to a greater amount of time spent on unpaid domestic work or caring duties. for these reasons, women often accept lower-paid and part-time jobs. despite systematically raising awareness of this phenomenon for years, we have not yet taken measures to ensure that care for children or dependent relatives is not reflected in a reduction in pension entitlements due to the omission of years in a career. investing in childrearing or caring for a family member is a value in itself, but it also has its own quantifiable value for our economy and the sustainability of the social system. it is therefore necessary to consider how to assess care periods more fairly and convert them into fairer pensions. i would like to thank my colleagues for supporting my amendment in this sense and to call on the member states to follow this recommendation when adjusting their pension reforms.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are witnessing a simultaneous development in our european societies of very different perceptions of this crisis. those who are or have been ill, those who have sick relatives, friends, and acquaintances are particularly aware of the health crisis and know how dangerous this disease is. those who are worried about their jobs or have actually lost their jobs have real, serious, existential worries. and then there are many who take the necessary measures, follow the necessary measures, but know: yes, it is not all easy in everyday life. we're focused on dealing with the health crisis. vaccinations and all things related to them are the priority. but then immediately the labour market is on our labour agenda. that is why it is so important that in the debate on the european semester we talk about how to preserve each individual job and how to create new jobs. the suspension of the aid scheme for the duration of the health crisis was important and is also a success for austria and other member states, so that direct, immediate, rapid and full-scale aid can be provided as long as this health crisis continues. and for that, we need training, continuing training, opportunities for young people and more entrepreneurial freedom, more opportunities for workers, to get europe out of the crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, europe in the time of covid has changed its watchwords and decided to put at the centre of its political agenda pillars such as growth and reform and the combination of growth and reform, finally. it's a new paradigm, it's a paradigm that takes into account the fact that discipline is sometimes necessary, but it only benefits some, while growth benefits everyone. we cannot but consider that demanding reforms from individual countries cannot be done by a european union which at times seems to be entrenched behind the illusion of its own infallibility. the reforms must be implemented by all, otherwise it would be difficult to understand why we normally do not reach agreement on this half-yearly report, which we discuss every first half-year, even here in parliament. what's the reason? the reason is that too often what we call 'coordination of the member states' turns into a pretext for 'conditionality': that's not good for growth. the long run, to discomfort keynes, is not the one where we're all dead, the long run is the one where we're raising our children and our grandchildren. well, nextgenerationeu is the novelty that puts our passion for the future of citizens at the center, let's embrace this novelty in the european political paradigm.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the pandemic, the lockdown and the disruption of supply chains have exacerbated inequalities. the labour market looks like unemployment. the wage, pension and digital gaps reach unacceptable levels, as is the situation of access to education, especially for the most vulnerable groups. digitalisation has also accelerated and there has been and is a profound restructuring. member states and the european union are trying to fight the pandemic, rebuild the economy, accelerate recovery and prepare our societies for this digital and economic transition, but the response in this transition has to be a just response, a response that leaves no one behind, that leaves no territory behind, but also that does not compromise the heritage of future generations. we are in a period of disillusionment with the european project and democracy. there is also a disaffection towards established political parties and, unfortunately, some citizens are more open to authoritarian interpretations of democracy. we must give a response that must be transparent: european funds, europe's response, has been historic, but now it is the member states' turn: that these funds go where they have to go, where they are needed most, with transparency and common sense, never for ideological projects. it is time for political leadership with a european vision; it is time for a more social europe, but also more transparent and with common sense.
member of the commission. – madam president, this debate has shown once again that we are striving for the same goal: a sustainable and inclusive recovery today and economic and social upward convergence today and tomorrow. the legal framework is in place, we have the necessary tools at our disposal and it is important to proceed with further concrete measures without delay. member states are submitting their recovery and resilience plans formally. and we need to move fast now and ensure quality in these plans and in their implementation. as i said at the beginning, and has been reinforced in the course of this debate, social europe must be at the heart of a sustainable recovery. through the action plan on the european pillar of social rights we are committing to further measures, to building a stronger social europe for just transitions and the recovery. yes, we need a new social rulebook, as expressed by president von der leyen here in parliament. an effective and coherent economic, budgetary and social governance has to lead us out of this crisis and prepare the path towards sustainable growth. that’s what we are working for, together with national parliaments. both green and digital investments are crucial, as is combating inequalities and poverty. and this starts with fair wages that allow a decent standard of living and restore the value of work. i have listened carefully to many of the speakers asking for more equality and especially more gender equality on the labour market. for more equality at the level of wages, because it is women – a majority of women – who are at the lower end of the pay scale and who have very often been on the front line during this crisis. that’s why this commission is very committed to changing this, and to changing it now. the directive proposal on a framework for adequate minimum wages, as well as the wage transparency directive, aim precisely at this. we also need concrete steps towards quality job creation, as has been underlined by many speakers: preventing unemployment; bringing back the long—term unemployed in particular to work; and offering strong and good prospects for young people. this is what european citizens expect now and what they also expect from our policies.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for holding this timely debate. in circumstances such as these, it’s perhaps useful to recall that the european semester came into existence a decade ago and in the wake of the last crisis. one lesson that we learned at that time is that economic policy coordination and surveillance can only be effective if it takes an integrated approach and covers all relevant aspects, and takes into account how they interact. over the years, the european semester has evolved and adapted according to changing circumstances. it has assumed its central role for coordinating economic and employment policies. it has also inspired domestic policy debates. its focus has expanded to include social and employment objectives, and it pays increasing attention to investment challenges. the european semester now integrates the united nations sustainable development goals, adding environmental and climate aspects into this analysis. it has repeatedly proved its value by its flexibility alone. it remains our main tool for coordinating economic, fiscal and employment policies. in the wake of the covid-19 crisis, we will need a functioning european semester more than ever to coordinate these policies across the european union. it will be vital for an inclusive and lasting recovery, especially from social and employment perspectives, and a recovery that is as uniform as we can make it across the member states. by the same token, it is important to include all parties in this process, particularly within member states. this means continuous, closed engagement with social partners, civil society, local and regional authorities, as well as with national parliaments, and of course with the european parliament. i look forward to continued engagement and to update you on the european semester implementation.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for the two reports that have been presented today and also for the comments that have been made, which are valuable contributions to the discussions currently taking place in the council, both in relation to recovery and resilience plans, economic recovery, social and employment policies, health policies, strengthening the all-important single market and the dual digital and climate transition. we need to respond to the crisis immediately. but we must always do so with a view to the future, ensuring a balance between investment and reforms, and to do this we must, as has already been said, strengthen dialogue in european capitals, consultation with stakeholders, consultation with civil society and the social partners, ensuring transparency in the management of the european semester and the recovery and resilience plans. the semester has adapted over the last 10 years. the semester has been able to adapt to the circumstances and the debates held during the parliamentary week, which took place a short time ago, illustrate this well. the preparation of the plans is carried out in a participatory manner in many countries and parliament will follow the work of the commission throughout the implementation of the plans. the semester has adapted to the exceptional circumstances we're living in. the budgetary rules have also been adjusted to the crisis. the activation of the general scope waiver clause in 2021 is evidence of this. there is also a consensus that the clause should remain active until 2022. we also believe that appropriate measures to support people should be maintained for as long as necessary, promoting cohesion and convergence, promoting social and equality policies, alongside sustainability and digital innovation. the european semester should therefore continue to adapt. i am sure that the european parliament will play its part in stimulating the wider debate we have to have on budgetary rules and their place in the reconstruction of a post-pandemic europe. today's debate has shown that although there are many differences, there are also many common points which provide us with a basis for working together. i am therefore confident that we will continue to cooperate, looking at the challenges ahead and identifying appropriate solutions to address them. thank you again for your attention.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic, while still ongoing, has already claimed many lives, severely damaged health and care systems and our economy, with a huge impact on people's way of life and work. the high number of worrying economies suggests that there will be severe social and political implications, further exacerbating the already worrying situation and the underlying structural changes due to the green and digital transformation that is affecting our production and consumption patterns and will particularly affect the world of work. in the health, economic, social and political scenario of covid-19, it is crucial to ensure that we make every effort and implement the right policies to overcome the pandemic and rebuild our economy and ensure that our systems are resilient. the recovery from the pandemic cannot be focused solely on the economic aspect, but must strengthen the european social model. women have been particularly hard hit by the pandemic, as sectors traditionally dominated by women have been hit the hardest. i therefore strongly hope that the social dimension will become the dominant theme of the semester and that social policy will become a priority in dealing with the consequences of this crisis.
in writing. i don't believe that. i mean, honestly. after seeing the damage caused by the so-called european semester, which is nothing but an austerity trap, after seeing the damage that austerity has caused to our public services, and in particular to our hospitals and health care systems, you want to continue as before. it was like nothing had happened. but people died because of your austerity. remember the 63 times the european commission asked national governments to cut back on their public health systems. have you forgotten the shortage of medical supplies in hospitals? the economic impact of the european semester was so disastrous that you had to suspend one of its pillars, the stability pact. and now you want to go back to the way things were. destroy public services through austerity. destroy the pensions of the workers. cutting wages while the dividends go through the roof. if we do not change our basic policy, all public spending is at risk of going to waste. you want to put everything on the market, in the private for-profit sector. and when everything is private, we'll be deprived of everything. we won't let that happen. we have to stop this logic.
madam president, how can we continue with non-binding objectives in the social pillar? have the results of the europe 2020 strategy not arrived with similar non-binding objectives and all the missed targets? isn't the explosion of poverty coming with the 2008 crisis and the austerity policies and now the pandemic crisis? before the pandemic crisis, 91 million people were living in poverty in europe. to aim to reduce that number by at least 15 million is to tell citizens that keeping 76 million people in poverty is acceptable, and it is not. it is also important that the commitment to a minimum income directive, a commitment which mr schmit has made, does not end up as a recommendation to the member states. it's a return to the recommendations of '92. we should have known by now that if we don't provide strong safety nets for integrated social inclusion processes, we are helping to consolidate the most dangerous threats to our democracy. a credible fight against poverty must have specific and verifiable objectives, with substantial resources. lisbon was not in the memory. i hope porto stays.
madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, there is no competitiveness, no cohesion without inclusion, no social policies that combat inequalities. however, we cannot deceive ourselves or the citizens of europe. competence in the social field is mainly in the hands of the member states and it is therefore impossible to set binding targets. but the european union must strengthen its role and its supporting powers. the strengthening of cohesion, social support, is also a strengthening of the internal market and is also a fight against social dumping and there is much to be done, in particular, to harmonize and to start right away with fiscal harmonization, by combating fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance as well. social and fiscal justice is essential. the european social fund+, which has over €90 billion for 2021-2027, is proof that we have concrete actions for skills development, poverty reduction and inclusion. that's what we need. instead of constant proclamations, what we need is action. let's get to the action.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the covid-19 pandemic is forcing restrictions that are causing dramatic negative changes in the labor market. i am therefore pleased that the european commission has presented a concrete action plan to implement the european pillar of social rights. our priority now should be to curb these negative trends in order to avoid a massive increase in unemployment and social precariousness. but on the other hand, we also need to look to the future and work to adapt the labour market to the challenges of both the green and digital transformation. therefore, economic recovery must go hand in hand with the implementation of the pillar. otherwise, inequality will only increase. unfortunately, once again, we see that the people most affected by the crisis are workers in precarious employment and young people. youth unemployment is becoming alarmingly high and once again we must focus our efforts on avoiding catastrophic social consequences for an entire generation. i believe that the instrument for recovery and resilience has a major role to play in this regard. member states should design their implementation plan to complement the pillar and to support both job maintenance and job creation. the ambitious goals we set for the future must not be achieved at the expense of any social or professional group, and especially not at the expense of those who have been affected by the current crisis.
madam president, finally, the social action plan presents a landmark shift in our approach to crisis recovery and for the european integration itself. we are finally focusing not on markets, banks and big corporations, which were labelled ‘too big to fail’, but on every european citizen and their quality of life and well-being. it was about time, because thanks to the long years of progressive efforts, we now all share the vision that each person is too small to fail, to be failed by their governments, by their union. this is a big change, which moves us from policies as quantity to policies as quality. you know the striking figures about unemployment. but it is not enough to simply preserve or create new jobs. we need to ensure fair opportunities for all: quality jobs for all, good working conditions for all european workers, life-long learning and training for all european workers. this is a big shift. this is why the proposed eu targets for 78% unemployment, yearly training for 60% of adults, and reducing the number of people in risk of poverty by 15 million people is really important, and it’s a step in the right direction. i am happy that socialist commissions were leading in this process, but i would also like to call on the member states after the social summit in porto not only to commit to these targets, but also to focus on the social dimension of the national recovery plans.
the summit in porto is a unique opportunity for all of us to strengthen the social europe that our people so badly need. indeed, as many as nine in ten eu citizens said that their expectations of a social europe were very high, which shows that it is our core element of the european union. social europe is not an abstract structure - it is a europe of fair and decent working conditions, a decent wage that does not allow poverty, quality and accessible health care, equality between women and men and, finally, the well-being and secure future of our children. the commission's roadmap for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights is essential to give a new and powerful impetus to the building of a strong social europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the members for today’s very rich and, i must say, very stimulating debate, which has shown the strong commitment of the european parliament to the european pillar of social rights and its implementation. let me be very clear. we have formulated new headline targets for 2030, but our action to reach them must start now, and indeed it has already started. it must be joint action by all from those who bear concrete responsibilities at all levels: the european parliament, obviously, the national parliaments, national governments, regional and local authorities, social partners and civil society actors. first of all, we want to achieve an employment rate of 78% – as i’ve already said – in 2030. so there is a need to support the creation of more and better jobs. here i have to be very clear. we have done a lot to preserve jobs, to keep people in jobs, but we have done a lot also to preserve companies, especially a lot of smes. and we have to do a lot to create new companies, new industries in europe, and that’s also a very strong dimension of this commission’s policies. work for jobs is why we put forward the commission recommendation on effective active support for employment. it sets out guidance on investing in people and easing job—to—job transitions for those who are at risk of redundancy or are already unemployed. we also need to pursue our efforts to support young people. they are particularly vulnerable to this crisis. they are suffering a lot. they have lost their precarious jobs – if they had one. therefore, better jobs, more secure jobs, highly productive and skilled jobs. this is what we are aiming at for our young, because it cannot be that with a recovery, the only prospects that we are offering them is again precarious jobs that they may lose from one day to another. the idea, this wrong alternative, that of better any job than no job, is a false alternative. what we have to do is really work on good jobs, investing in people. beyond the recovery effort, it is essential to support the participation of women in the labour market. we need to at least halve the employment gap, promote access to early childhood education and care, and further promote the work—life balance. better jobs mean striving for better working conditions. we have already proposed ambitious legislation on adequate minimum wages. two weeks ago, the commission launched a consultation of eu social partners on decent working conditions and social protection for people working through platforms. a major priority must concern skills and equality. if we are talking about effective labour market policies, we cannot emphasise enough the importance of skills for jobs. at least 60% of adults should participate in training every year by 2030. skills empower people to adapt to change and skills are an ever more important source of our global competitiveness. the different actions and our european skills agenda are crucial to this end, and we will only successfully manage the green transition and the digital change transformation if we invest a lot in skills – and not just in the skills of those who are already skilled, but also in those who have lower skills, giving them better opportunities on the labour market. we must advance gender equality and equal opportunities for all, with a particular focus on youth. last week’s proposal for a directive on binding pay transparency and enforcement measures and a new disability rights strategy are crucial. (the speaker was interrupted by the european anthem). (laughter and applause) that’s great. that’s really great. thank you very much. lastly, i want to emphasise the fight against rising inequality and poverty. this stands at the heart of the action plan. we want the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion to be reduced by at least, i insist, at least, 15 million. the fight against poverty requires stronger safety nets for those in need and robust social protection systems. later this month, we will table the long—anticipated proposal for a european child guarantee, which was born here in this parliament. we will also launch a european platform on combating homelessness, and next year we will come forward with a council recommendation on minimum income. i agree social investments are key and, particularly in this recovery, we have to build a more resilient society and therefore we have to mobilise european funds and support social enterprises by proposing a social economy action plan. dear president, honourable members, we can only achieve our ambitions for a green and digital transition by covering also the social dimension. social progress has to be embedded in our recovery strategy and to become a driving principle of our post—covid european agenda. that is what’s at stake in porto – an economy that works for all people. that’s what we are aiming at.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you all for the very timely and very rich debate we have had here, which makes it clear that strengthening the european social dimension is fundamental. it has been said here that there is no competitiveness and cohesion without inclusion. it has been said here that the road is long and requires courage and action. now we have a plan of action. this plan, together with the financial instruments at our disposal, and the possibility of having to draw up our own national recovery and resilience plans, will allow us to build a renewed commitment to social europe in which we expect all key actors to participate. the plan, in our view, combines ambition with realism and takes account of the diversity of social models in the member states. it is a good plan because, firstly, it sets concrete targets for the union by 2030 in terms of employment rates, including employment for women and youth. the focus is on strengthening skills, in particular in adult education, reducing poverty and social exclusion, and reducing child poverty. secondly, it proposes concrete measures to achieve the objectives, many of them through legislative instruments. thirdly, the objectives will be monitored through a social indicators panel, the social scoreboard, which is part of the european semester and which should have new indicators. finally, it is clear that the implementation of the action plan is the task of all: the european institutions, the member states, the social partners, business and trade union associations and civil society, in accordance with their respective competences and the diversity that marks our europe. we will work to ensure that the porto summit is an opportunity to make a renewed commitment from all those involved in the european pillar of social rights. the summit will focus on how to strengthen europe's social dimension to meet the challenges of climate change and the digital transition, and send a clear signal that the union is promoting policies that put people and their well-being at the centre of its concerns. we're counting on your input, your presence, i hope, in the port. this will be an important step, a further step on the road to building a social europe, a fair and inclusive europe, as the european citizens are asking us to do. we have to live up to their expectations.
in writing. this action plan defies your petty intentions, but does not hide a limited ambition: it assumes that 78 million people will remain at risk of poverty. as regards employment, it is symptomatic that, even in rhetoric, the objective of full employment has been definitively removed from eu strategies. the eu implicitly assumes unemployment as intrinsic to the economic and social model it advocates. this plan is largely an attempt to disguise policies which undermine social and labour rights with a social label. social progress is not compatible with the neoliberal policies promoted by the eu. as we have argued, what is needed is a genuine pact for social progress and employment which, together with the repeal of the stability pact and its successors, aims, among other things, at full employment, the raising of wages, the defence of collective bargaining, the eradication of precariousness, the reduction and regulation of working hours without loss of pay, the defence and strengthening of public services, in particular access to the right to health, education, housing, social security, public networks for the care of children, the elderly and disabled people. that way you make sure no one gets left behind!
in writing. 3.5 years after gothenburg and in the midst of the corona crisis, it is not a day too soon that the commission finally came up with an action plan for the social pillar last week. this action plan is a step in the right direction towards a more social europe, with good initiatives such as adequate minimum wages or the european social security passport. on the other hand, the plan lacks the ambition to use this momentum to finally tackle poverty and focus on quality jobs. the target of lifting 15 million people out of poverty by 2030 is far too low-hanging fruit. in the coming years, when we will really feel the economic impact of the corona crisis, even more people are at risk of losing their jobs and falling into poverty. furthermore, an increased level of employment is of course important, but far more than quantity we must focus on the quality of these jobs, as more than 20 million workers in europe are still at risk of poverty. finally, the real work is just beginning. this is also a joint struggle with the member states, regional and local authorities, the social partners and civil society, so that this action plan does not remain a dead letter.
president. - mr verhofstadt, when you were prime minister of belgium, journalists were systematically threatened and intimidated. some were even fired. to quote a former editor-in-chief: the pressure to be accommodating under this government is enormous. in addition, the market share of the public broadcaster in the television and radio market is dominant in belgium. recent academic research has also shown that the regime's press is highly biased. yet we never hear from the european union about freedom of the press in belgium. belgium is obediently following the orders of the euro-fanatic elite. countries like poland or hungary do not. they listen to their people and they democratically choose a different policy. they do not want mass immigration, but secure borders and a secure future. they do not want further centralisation, uniformity and bureaucratisation of the european union, but they want to retain the freedom to be themselves and to make their own choices. instead of this hypocritical debate on freedom of the press, we should restore the old european values. subsidiarity was once a foundation for european cooperation. achieve more together than each separately by embracing diversity with respect for each other's identity, freedom and sovereignty. that is the europe we love, but unfortunately it is less and less what this european union is about.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, think of those children who, instead of going to school, go to work every day. to those children who are victims of incest and sexual violence, whose voice is not heard. those who hunger is a daily companion. those who die in the mediterranean in the name of fortress europe. think of those disabled children who are deprived of school, those who are detained with their parents in closed centres. to those minority children who, from an early age, know the meaning of the word racism. those who are given less opportunities because they are girls. to those children who are mistreated by justice, who are sick because of air pollution, to those who want to be actors of their destiny. these children have been deprived of their families and friends due to the covid-19 pandemic and are subjected to increased violence. to those whose only horizon is the barbed wire of a detention camp in northeastern syria. think of the progress made since the last eu-wide plan on children's rights; to the one who still has to go. think of those hopes, those good news, those small and big advances, those mobilizations and those who lead them, those adults who accompany and protect them. we also hope that words will turn into deeds, that investments will be up to the challenge, that policy coherence will be ensured, that those first affected will be consulted, that the most vulnerable will be protected, that respect for the rights of all children and future generations will become a reality. this is the whole ambition of the text we are putting to your vote today and, i hope, of the commission's strategy. time is running out, the emergency is knocking on the door.
president, as mandela once said, there can be no sharper revelation of the soul of a society than the way it treats its children. covid has increased inequality, and children are suffering the most. we need to clearly address the power imbalance that currently exists between children and society. it's up to us to give them hope, justice and opportunity. crisis can be a catalyst for positive change. we don't just have to go back to our normal lives, because for millions, normal was already a bad deal. poverty, lack of education, risk of genital mutilation, mental health problems, domestic violence and abuse. for many, these challenges were already a reality, for others, covid has brought them. we must do everything we can to help young people reclaim the future they feel has been lost. we need to do this by listening to them and by showing them that despite our present separation, we see them.
mrs daly, i would also like to ask you to come to order. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. but it would be the two opposing groups if it were a commission commitment concerning another country - if one side said that the commitment was questionable or particularly justified and the other side said that it was only a parliamentary procedure. the question here is - and the committee on budgets rightly raised this question - whether it is acceptable that the procedure was established without consulting parliament, despite the promise to the contrary. that's what this is about. it is about parliamentary rights, not the issue itself. i do not want to be the subject of a wave of criticism. that is why i am now issuing the third order to you, and i will not allow you to speak.
president, the eu has already spent four billion on afghanistan and wants to add another billion. afghanistan is the largest recipient of development aid in the world. it is intended to promote stability, jobs and even gender equality. in afghanistan, not good. well, that five billion is thrown away. warlords steal our money. they're responsible for 80 percent of the world's opium production. the taliban attacks are continuing unabated. teachers and journalists are being killed. recently, two more female justices were appointed to the supreme court. meanwhile, you are admitting hundreds of thousands of afghans into the eu, another expenditure item worth many millions. the commission of christian democrats, socialists and liberals is thus subsidizing a 'narco-state' controlled by islamic terrorists. i think there are better ways to spend our tax dollars.
in writing. the rapporteur challenged us to find i quote a pro-european who would oppose own resources: this is a marker between pro-europeans and euro-ambiguous. moreover, our position on this issue would be "a marker between visionaries and the status quo". you know, talk to people a little bit. the idea that the contradiction lies between national taxes or european taxes does not hold water. the first thing that counts is who pays. who's gonna pay for the raise? are you going to make the workers pay for the crisis again, in the name, once again, of the public debt or the budget deficit? we know that many countries in the european union are tax havens for multinationals, that millionaires contribute very little, that you have postponed the financial transaction tax, that you are not even talking about a minimum tax for large european companies, while inequalities are growing. and even on the eve of a new social and economic crisis, you are talking about european taxes without ensuring tax justice. and you expect applause?
madam president, africa is certainly a continent with one of the poorest populations in the world, but it is also undeniably the richest continent in the world in terms of natural resources: gold, diamonds, uranium, phosphorus, coltan, gas, cocoa, cotton, to name just a few. without these raw materials, most of the world's industries would be at a standstill today. for example, 80% of the electricity produced in france comes from the exploitation of uranium in niger. since colonization and after independence, the main concern of the colonizing countries has been to empty these countries to guarantee the welfare of the western populations and to fill the pockets of business. foreign companies do not bring much to the local population, they take advantage of the abundant, cheap labour force, without social protection. they also benefit from low taxation and, in addition, from no environmental liability. true, they often face failing, often corrupt governments, more concerned with their own personal enrichment than with the welfare of their fellow citizens. global warming caused by our production models is adding to this disaster. so yes, we need a new eu-africa strategy. but this strategy must impose social and environmental responsibility on companies. this strategy must combat corruption. this strategy must change our production model and it must include much more civil society, women and young people.
madam president, nine miles is the distance that separates africa from europe. everything that happens in africa happens within nine miles. that's why it's never been truer: helping africa is helping ourselves. to achieve the goals of climate change, equal rights, fighting poverty -- we're not going to get there unless we're together, unless we're on board. so this strategy is a great opportunity to make this partnership different, a partnership between equals; it has been said, far from paternalism, of the donor-recipient relationship. because, indeed, africa is the continent that has today the largest pockets of poverty, that has enormous problems of instability, of violence, but it is also the continent that has doubled its gross domestic product in 12 years; it is the continent that is becoming the largest trading area in the world since the creation of the wto; it is the continent that has gone from having no telephone to being connected with mobile phone; it is the continent with which we must go hand in hand in a partnership between equals. thank you, chrysoula, for your work; thank you, commissioner, for your commitment.
madam president, this report is a testament to the double narrative of the lrem on migration, as it openly advocates new legal immigration routes under the false pretext of stopping illegal arrivals. but a solution seems obvious. with €25 billion in development aid to africa in 2018, europeans must demand in return that recipient countries accept the repatriation of their nationals. indeed, according to the commission's own admission, of the six countries identified as having particularly low execution rates, five are in africa. in addition, the money remitted by immigrants to their countries of origin now represents more than three times the amount of official development assistance, and unctad recently estimated illicit capital flight at 3.7% of africa's gdp, or $88.6 billion per year, showing that vast untapped sources of finance can be tapped. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international covenant on civil and political rights.
madam president, commissioner, is the european vaccine policy racist? i wondered for a long time when i saw this map which actually shows that this year, europeans could be vaccinated while africans will have to wait several more years. people will die needlessly because a vaccine exists and could be produced in africa. but when the african union asked europe to produce the vaccine at the world trade organization, the european union replied: no, the vaccine will remain in the hands of western multinational pharmaceutical companies. the former colonial powers who deny africa the right to produce the vaccine: the symbol is really strong. the european union therefore prefers to save the profits of multinationals rather than saving people's lives. thomas sankara said that at some point we had to choose between champagne for a few and drinking water for all... but today we have to choose between profits for a few multinationals and the right to vaccination for all. let's make the right choice.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the istanbul convention was signed in may 2011. turkey was the first country to sign it and that is why it is named after its most emblematic city. since then, 34 countries have signed and ratified it, and 45 have signed it. the european union has always wanted to be at the forefront of the fight against violence against women. it is the first legally binding international instrument to put an end to this social scourge and these glaring figures which we unfortunately see every day in the world. the defence of human rights is an intrinsic value of the european union. there is no european union without democracy and human rights. unfortunately, turkey left the istanbul convention last saturday - the night between friday and saturday - in a deliberate misinterpretation and with a complete disregard for the rule of law. it is a slap in the face to human rights and tramples on the struggle for women's rights. it also means more victims and less democracy in a country where more than 400 women are killed every day. it sends a dangerous signal to the world. we have to think about it and get back to the convention. in 2019, 440 pairs of high-heeled shoes were hung on the facade of an istanbul building. the work by turkish artist vahit tuna was made in memory of the more than 440 women murdered by their partners in recent years. how many more pairs of shoes does it take to convince the government that these human lives are at stake?
on 20 march, we learned that turkey was withdrawing from the istanbul convention 2011. the withdrawal is a significant political event, as the istanbul convention is the main european instrument for combating violence against women. it is an imperfect text whose preamble gives way to an exacerbated feminism that sets women against men, but it has the immense merit of trying to protect women against all kinds of violence, including domestic violence, rape, forced marriage and female genital mutilation. that is why i have always defended it personally. by withdrawing from the convention, turkey is therefore turning its back on the equality of men and women, which is an essential value of european civilisation. on a symbolic level, this withdrawal is a declaration of war addressed to us by erdoğan, who is clearly aligning himself with the most retrograde islamism. we must learn the lessons and abandon the process of turkey's accession to the european union once and for all. it's no use complaining, we have to act.
madam president, every year, just as in the european union, hundreds of women are killed by their partners, ex-partners and close relatives in turkey. thousands are battered, raped and beaten. after deciding to withdraw from the istanbul convention, you might argue that erdoğan does not care about this brutal violence against women, but actually it is worse. autocrats like erdoğan and his lookalikes in the european union are afraid of free and independent women. they are afraid of societies where women can freely decide about their own bodies, their money and their lives. they are afraid of the strength of women and lgbti movements and that is why they hate the istanbul convention. that is why they hate us to be protected from discrimination and violence, and that is why they attack our freedom and independence. we cannot let these autocrats win, not in turkey nor in the european union. we express our solidarity with all the feminists and queers who are standing up to this in turkey right now. but most of all we need to have the full accession, ratification and implementation of the istanbul convention all over europe.
president, the istanbul convention is the first legally binding treaty that obliges member states to prevent and combat domestic violence. and just as it turns out that violence against women has increased in recent months with alarming figures due to the lockdown, with no less than one in five women facing domestic violence in recent months, just at that moment turkey decides to withdraw from the treaty! the president of the commission has always defended the ratification of the istanbul convention as one of its top priorities. it's time to turn words into deeds. because some people want to turn back the clock. i therefore urge the commission to send a clear signal to turkey, but also to set a good example by encouraging the remaining member states to finally ratify the convention and to stop blocking european ratification. how long are we going to wait to do what needs to be done?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of personal data. in a post-covid world with the rapid development of artificial intelligence and the increased threat of cyberattacks, a robust and anti-phishing legal framework for data that allows our economy to flourish is vital. the gdpr has the potential to unlock the eu's greatest asset: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. but we still have to address the persistent inconsistencies, the non-compliance and the gaps. this is not the time to throw away all the rules and start over. but it is time to make the rules work as the legislator intended. we need to look at how we can make the gdpr go hand in hand with changing technology. how can we help businesses grow in a digital age? how can we provide more guidance and support to smes? and finally, how can we better protect the privacy and data of our citizens? that's what it's about!
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as mr weber also just pointed out, it’s very hard to imagine that this is happening inside the european union. to me, it’s even harder to imagine when i discussed with people i grew up with in burkina faso about what is happening here in the continent of enlightenment, while we’re travelling around the world to show everyone how to respect human rights. we knew inside the eu for years that there was something rotten in the state of malta and yet it was continually ignored or diminished. in recent days and weeks we have seen the highest echelons of government implicated in the murder of a journalist. we can never bring back daphne caruana galizia to her husband and children, but we can bring them justice. we must bring them justice. we can show that europe has learned its lessons. no corner of the eu must be free from scrutiny of the rule of law. it makes no difference whether you are a conservative, a liberal or a socialist. we are all equal in the eyes of democracy and the law. as long as we treat the rule of law as a political football we will chip away at our own credibility and authority, both at home and on the global stage. we have discussed in this chamber the shortcomings of governments on the right, but we failed miserably in this house to discuss malta, due to its origins being on the left. let’s never repeat the mistake. i hope that finally justice is delivered for the family of daphne caruana galizia. i hope that the truth is delivered for our citizens and i hope that journalists will never live in fear of writing their story in our territories.
president, vice-president, we support the agreement on export controls on dual-use goods. we thank the rapporteur and we also express our special appreciation to mr bernd lange, who has played a very decisive role in this. the new criteria in this recast regulation ensure greater harmonisation of standards and procedures, better coordination and information flow between member states and increased transparency. the new regulation also allows for an autonomous human rights monitoring of exports of cyber-surveillance technology. we cannot continue to tolerate human rights violations and the oppression of populations through the use of european high-tech products. in this connection i am told that in this parliament there are cameras from a chinese company which is supposed to be supplying surveillance technology for the famous chinese prison camps. if that is true, it is extremely cynical and extremely inconsistent. mr vice-president, you have the task of ensuring a balanced implementation of the new regulation by strengthening the eu's competitiveness, avoiding unnecessary red tape for our businesses, safeguarding our security interests, upholding high ethical standards and promoting human rights.
mr president, the reform of the dual-use regulation is an important step forward in promoting human rights in the value-based eu trade policy. dual-use equipment is a concern, as emerging and disruptive civilian technologies are more and more frequently used by authoritarian states to suppress human rights both internally and externally. china’s military-civil fusion is very good example of this. there is now an opportunity with a more coherent and responsible eu policy also to step up on the international cooperation to promote human rights. we need coordinated action to deprive authoritarian leaders and states of technology so that they cannot be used for malign purposes. the next step might be that we need to start working more on import controls to also protect our own citizens.
the eu wants controls on export licences, but there is a gigantic hypocrisy here with regard to arms exports, for example to saudi arabia. 75% of eu arms exports go to that country and all that gun talk comes from the walloon region. other member states have imposed an arms embargo, but the walloon fn continues to supply. and who owns fn? that's the walloon government! and who's in that walloon government? socialists, greens and liberals. so these parties supply arms to saudi arabia, which then uses them in yemen, where for years there has been a bloody war between sunnis and shiites, with the saudi oil billionaires and the iranian ayatollahs bribing each other. the eu must also send humanitarian aid to yemen, totalling €1 billion. so the saudi sunnis and the iranian shiites are destroying half of yemen and we're paying for the damage. i can give you more examples: eu countries were supplying the islamic rebels in syria. the sultan of turkey even gets real missiles from europe. agreements are being made with the communist dictators in china and the eu is allowing the chinese to take our technology. in short, here again, socialists, greens, christian democrats and liberals, who are so fond of playing the gut-man, are putting on a particularly hypocritical play.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank president von der leyen, because she dares to open her heart here in this room. and as a woman in politics, i know it’s not easy, but we need to speak up. many women can recognise what president von der leyen has felt because we have also felt this during some lonely moments of our career. en tant que femme élue, en tant que mère d’une petite fille, je me permets de vous le dire, monsieur le président michel, avec beaucoup de tristesse, parce que moi aussi j’attendais beaucoup de vous, que vous avez été du mauvais côté de la chaise. and i would like to stress that this is an opportunity to show that this is not just one, tiny, exceptional, aspect of the life of women in politics, but a huge underlying issue where we are forgotten and our emotions are not taken into account – our careers and our talents are not respected. we need to fight for that change. but i would also like to stress the fact that the greatest tragedy of the meeting with erdoğan is not only this, but also the fact that the eu has missed a great opportunity to show its strength. it revealed so much of its weaknesses. the disastrous idea of rewarding turkey’s terrible behaviour with reform of the customs union – that the eu is still thinking of throwing good after bad, with taxpayers’ money, is heart-breaking. the lack of condemnation for its ongoing violations of human rights, territorial integrity and gender equality is also unacceptable. when president von der leyen was there with president michel, one thing has been clear: europe needs to change its behaviour towards turkey because turkey would otherwise never respect us. one thing should be remembered – what we’ve seen with sofagate – something we can describe like this, we were shocked because it represented our lack of seats at the table sometimes. many women wrote to me too. they were shocked because they felt like this was their chair, this was their disrespect, this was their struggle – to be treated equally. that day, the eu played into the hands of erdoğan’s agenda of division and misogyny, of distraction tactics and thinly-veiled aggression. the eu’s own passive acceptance of erdoğan’s behaviour must never be repeated, because as everyone knows, if you gave a bully an inch they take a mile. president michel wants to be on the right side of history, as i know, from belgium. but that side will not be with erdoğan. we need to change.
madam president, mr president, the level of development of a society is measured by the respect it has for its elders, the future it offers its youth and also, i dare say, by the respect for women's rights. these are very important elements for us. first of all, madam president, allow me to express my admiration for your reaction, your composure, your elegance, your dignity. i am not sure that many people would have reacted as you have, and that shows how good a choice we made here, together, to have a woman at the head of the commission, and that too, of course, in view of the balance sheet after just over two years in office. i would simply like to repeat what françois-xavier bellamy said: i think that 'unity makes strength' is the motto of my country, the 'unity of the council and the commission in the face of turkey in support of our greek, cypriot, kurdish and armenian friends'. we must be united in the fight for women's rights and human rights more generally. this is the best response you can give to erdoğan with dignity, elegance and unity.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the recommendation for the second reading of the dan nica, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the establishment of horizon europe, setting out the rules for participation in it and its dissemination (07064/2/2020 - c9-0111/2021 - 2018/0224(cod) (a9-0122/2021), the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, the specific programme implementing horizon europe, on the framework programme for research and innovation (com (2018) 0368 - c0425/2018 - 2018/0225 (cns)), on the value of innovation and innovation in the european energy and technology area, and the report by maria graça (com (2019) 0329) - 2019/01 (cod) on the european commission's 2019-2020 programme for innovation and innovation, on the european commission's 2019-2020 programme for innovation and innovation, on the european commission's 2019-2020 programme for innovation and innovation, and on the european commission's 2019-2020 programme for energy and climate change, on the c022021-2020 (com (2019) 0321)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are celebrating today nothing less than the adoption of the largest and most ambitious research programme in european history. it may even be the largest civilian research program in the world. almost a hundred billion euro budget the largest amount we have ever spent on digital innovation in europe. we will spend 35% of the budget on fighting climate change, we have completely new instruments, we have opened up new audiences, we have completely refocused on innovation. the european innovation council is an instrument which links innovation, the new generation of start-ups, with the traditional research and financial instruments. we've opened up a whole new world of possibilities. the importance of the creative industries, of artists, but also of the link between the digital sphere and creativity for innovation on climate change cannot be overstated. that we are already in the forefront of initiatives like president ursula von der leyen's new bauhaus, that we are turning climate change, from a dystopia, into a utopia, that climate change is an opportunity, that we are reflecting the green deal, the economic opportunities that are associated with tackling climate change. but still, and this is the way it is in politics these days, the glass is half full and it's half empty. we promised ourselves ten years ago - the heads of state and government solemnly declared it - that we would spend 3% of the gross national product in the european union on research and innovation, and this programme will not achieve that goal either. this is not an abstract goal; we simply have to look at the competitive situation in the world: the united states, which is highly knowledgeable about climate change, spends more than 3% of its gdp on research, china almost 5%, japan well over 3%, israel almost 5%, korea 4.6%. even the oecd average is higher than the average for research expenditure in the european union. we have to be clear that this has an impact on the programme. the programme is highly attractive; it is a successful programme for the european single market, for european competitiveness, but we must also see and explain that those who want to participate in the programme are faced with the reality that we can only cater for 9% of applications in the ict sector. in biotechnology, it is only 8%, in materials science and manufacturing, it is only 7%. we have a huge need for innovation in europe, and we are facing nothing less than transformative changes in our society. we want to reduce co2 by 50% by 2030. this means that in a decade we will have to develop new technologies that do not exist today. we must develop them, bring them to industrial maturity and introduce them into the european single market. i think it is becoming clear that on the one hand this programme exceeds europe's ambitions in research and development, but it is also becoming clear that we are facing such great challenges that a discussion such as we have had over the last three years, over three presidencies - the romanian, the german and the portuguese - and with two commissioners - i may mention carlos moedas in particular, but also mariya gabriel - and a parliament, cannot continue in this way. why not? - why not? the council had lost all ambition; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have really said goodbye to the ideological differences in this parliament, we have fought for research and innovation in europe. without this parliament we would have fallen far short of our ambitions, and i thank the many colleagues, but i also thank my co-rapporteur dan nica for this kind of cooperation. i think we have saved europe's ambitions in this parliament. that is a reason to be proud, but it is also a reason to look back thoughtfully. what's next? we have new challenges, which are old challenges. for the first time in two decades, we have to deal with the question of scientific freedom in europe again - the question of scientific freedom being called into question in the member states. we have to deal with the european research area. we have been discussing it for 20 years, but we have not really made progress. we are proposing to the commission and the council that they should continue this discussion, that they should also take it to the civil societies of europe, and that they should promote this project. without a common european research policy, we are falling back on the privilege of the few who can spend a lot and on the problems of the many, so to speak, who must all work together to meet the challenges of climate change, digitalisation and greater competitiveness. so today is a day to be proud, to be proud of this parliament, to thank an ambitious commissioner, but it is also a day to look to the future and say: this is not enough. we're going to have to do transformational work for the next ten years. it will be all about innovation and technology, and that is why we will also be thinking in this parliamentary term about how to find more funds and develop more ambition.
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, unfortunately marisa matias, rapporteur for the report on the european institute of innovation and technology, is in self-isolation due to a risk contact and she can therefore not attend the debate physically, but she is of course with us at a distance. on her behalf, let me first thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the members of the secretariat, technical services, staff members and all parliamentary assistants of course, involved. the german and the portuguese presidencies of the council and in particular aleyda hernández, sandra gonçalves and sofia santos for all their work, support and of course, graça carvalho for the good cooperation. now it has been said, the outcome of this package is of course the result of a compromise. but let me emphasise first of all some of the important achievements for us. we will devote 35% of funding to climate transition-related research and innovation. we will keep an autonomous fund for the social sciences and the humanities, and this contrary to the initial proposal tabled by the european commission. we will also have a better distribution of the funds over all european countries. we have a better promotion of gender balance. funds for health research are increased and then of course, there is the part on the exclusion of direct defence research from the programme. now, as for the regulation for which marisa matias was rapporteur, regarding the european institute of innovation and technology, she wishes to highlight the approval of funds for two new areas: culture and creative sectors, on the one hand, and water and oceans on the other hand. there’s also the big increase in transparency in the process, and we know how important that is, as well as better guarantees for the workers by giving them proper contracts. and it is quite symbolic that the last point, agreed with the council, was exactly related to the duration of their contracts. now, allow me to say a few other words as well, and i will switch to dutch. dat we erin geslaagd zijn niet op onderzoeksbudgetten te laten beknibbelen, zoals raadsvoorzitter charles michel op een bepaald moment wou, is een succes. maar toch vallen er ook kanttekeningen te plaatsen. we hebben in europa een probleem. we financieren onderzoek en ontwikkeling en promoten innovatie met publiek geld en dat is goed. maar heel vaak zijn het in die programma's en partnerschappen uiteindelijk multinationale bedrijven die de doorslag geven over wat er al dan niet gefinancierd wordt, met soms dramatische gevolgen. u herinnert zich waarschijnlijk de terughoudendheid – om niet te spreken van een veto – toen de europese commissie in 2017-2018 via het initiatief inzake innovatieve geneesmiddelen meer wou investeren in epidemiologisch onderzoek tegen mogelijke pandemieën. dat onderzoek was nuttig voor de maatschappij. dat was een goed voorstel, maar niet winstgevend genoeg. dus wou de industrie niet. en in het kader van een publiek-privaat partnerschap mocht zij meebeslissen over wat er met belastinggeld gebeurde. had de overheid toen doorgezet, dan hadden we misschien de schade van de pandemie kunnen beperken. maar we laten tegenwoordig privébedrijven beslissen over wat er met publieke fondsen gebeurt. om een concreet voorbeeld te nemen: farmaceutische bedrijven zijn vandaag de dag gefinancialiseerd. dat betekent dat ze zich in de eerste plaats richten op kortetermijnrendement voor aandeelhouders en niet op wat voor de volksgezondheid ook op langere termijn nuttig is. we weten het: het systeem negeert al te vaak ziekten die niet winstgevend zijn of ziekten die het meest voorkomen in ontwikkelingslanden. wereldwijd gaat slechts 10 % van de onderzoeksmiddelen naar gezondheidsbehoeften in ontwikkelingslanden, waar nochtans 90 % van alle voorkoombare ziekten zich voordoen. de prioriteiten voor onderzoek en ontwikkeling moeten veel meer bepaald worden door behoeften inzake volksgezondheid – om bij ons voorbeeld van de gezondheid te blijven – en niet door privébelangen of winstbejag. het systeem is ook niet efficiënt. in de jaren 50 kregen we voor 1 miljard dollar grofweg 40 nieuwe geneesmiddelen. vandaag is dat, geloof ik, voor een vergelijkbaar bedrag minder dan één geneesmiddel. dat is een enorme daling in innovatie en productiviteit, maar ondertussen cashen de aandeelhouders van big pharma wel. want al te vaak worden de resultaten van publiek onderzoek geprivatiseerd en dat is een tweede probleem. zelfs als we met publiek geld dingen sponsoren, dan wordt het product uiteindelijk een monopolie van bedrijven. die worden daar dan alleen eigenaar van, verkopen het ons in ruil duur terug en laten niet meer toe dat er daarna collectief verder gewerkt wordt om die kennis uit te diepen en samen vooruit te gaan als maatschappij. kijk naar die covid-19-vaccins. die betalen we ondertussen drie tot vier keer en dan zijn ze nog niet van ons. volgens mij moet er tegenover publiek geld ook publieke controle staan. gelukkig is er nu een europees burgerinitiatief “no profit on pandemic” dat die volgende stappen wil zetten in ons europese onderzoeksbeleid om volksgezondheid altijd voorrang te geven op privaat winstbejag.
president, madam president of the commission, madam minister, mr vice-president, mr michel, ladies and gentlemen, brexit remains a historic event - hopefully without any follow-up - which i still deeply regret. it is a story with only losers and, almost five years after the referendum and after a difficult process of negotiations - brilliantly led by michel barnier - this agreement puts an end to the great legal uncertainty for our citizens, for our companies and also for our prosperity. fortunately, a no-deal scenario is avoided in this way. we have made agreements in this agreement which form the basis of our future relationship and which must therefore be respected. i'm not going to be a part of this. but that's not the end of the story. the conflicts of the past few weeks prove that this deal is not a done deal. in the interests of citizens and businesses on both sides of the channel, we must continue to seek pragmatic solutions that preserve the integrity of our single european market, but also protect, preserve the good friday agreement and build on a future good relationship, a good partnership with our british friends. in the short term, i encourage the european commission and the british government to work together now to speed up the agreed customs controls and to maintain those controls in northern ireland as efficiently as possible. and i am pleased, madam president, with the commitment you have just expressed on this matter. not only can smoother customs clearance, but hopefully also agreements on phytosanitary controls, help to pull the trigger from the northern ireland powder keg and de-escalate the situation, but general freight transport will also benefit. and with that in mind, i recommend that the commission adopt the following recommendations: - first, a more thoroughgoing digitalisation of customs controls with shared data; - second, the use of a system of trusted economic operators, which means that companies that export a lot and meet certain safety standards are only subject to random checks; - pre-clearance, so that we can create green lanes; and - finally, the best possible tools to support our smes. but the departure of our british friends is not merely an economic loss. under the motto 'better a good neighbour than a distant friend', it is in our mutual interest to continue and even strengthen cooperation. indeed, michel barnier, there is more that unites us than divides us, not least in areas such as security, migration, border management, transport, research and development, foreign policy, the north sea, education. let us also work with these devolved nations who are the requesting party to continue to implement erasmus+. let us also learn from this exit. i am opposed to any form of gigantism. more europe is not always the solution to every problem, but the search for a better european union is. the eu must remain a unique, strong partnership between member states and länder that retain their identity, that decide what they do and do not do together. the eu must never become a superstate over the heads of the european peoples. this is contrary to the basic principles of subsidiarity and unity in diversity. our motto should be: adding value to cooperation, looking at shared challenges of member states, based on economies of scale, based on added value, by focusing on deepening the internal market, more trade agreements, more research and development and better protection of our borders. let us now look to the future, but not without first expressing our sincere thanks to david mcallister, to the rapporteurs, to vice-president šefčovič for his approach and good dialogue with parliament, but above all to michel barnier, who has carried out a very difficult task in an inimitable way. we are in favour of this and the accompanying resolution will be adopted.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, we are closing the discharge procedure for 2019 this week. we started this process last september and i really want to thank the vast majority of european bodies for their collaboration and work - the commission, parliament, the agencies, the development funds, the joint undertakings and the other institutions. as you will have seen from the beginning of this sitting, my renew europe group was the rapporteur for the other institutions and i dealt specifically with the european ombudsman and the european economic and social committee. we did not give the discharge to the economic and social committee last year because of serious malfunctions. given the improvements in the fight against harassment, the new code of conduct, the solutions for victims of harassment, we have decided, for 2019, to grant him discharge. but the message is clear: the committee on budgetary control supports the new president of the committee, christa schweng, in her actions, her process of renewal, but we will be vigilant as to how the situation develops. as regards the services of the european ombudsman, i would like to renew our congratulations to the ombudsman and to his director, emily o'reilly, for the work they have done. i hope that in the coming months the ombudsman will be able to claim greater media visibility, as this is an essential link to advance transparency and ethics, and thus to maintain citizens' trust in the european institutions. i would like to thank the court of auditors for its work, its independence and its rigour. we have here a powerful tool and i can only advise the members of our assembly to consult regularly the work, the special reports of the court of auditors. i have often said that the court of auditors is the best ally of the european citizens and therefore of the european parliament. the discharge procedure is neither a trivial gesture nor a formality. it is a major political act that allows the management of funds, transparency, but also to sanction abuses, ineffective policies and misuse of public money. this good management is essential to maintain the credibility and legitimacy of our political project with the european taxpayers. this year, out of the 52 european bodies examined, we are not giving discharge to the council, nor to the european council - we have just spoken about this and this has been the case since 2009 - nor to the frontex agency, and we have just developed the reasons that led us to take this decision. as for frontex, we're postponing the release; it's a meeting clause we give the agency in six months. let me be clear: this is not a question of the agency's missions, let alone its existence. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. this year, for the first time, we have had a dedicated performance report, which was one of our long-standing requests. it is one thing to have accounts free from errors and irregularities, but it is also necessary that money be invested effectively in economically viable projects, policies with significant leverage effects on growth and employment. every euro spent must be spent efficiently. our vigilance will need to be further increased in the coming years, given the implementation of the new multiannual budgetary programming and the next generation eu, with 750 billion, and given the many expenses incurred in the context of the covid-19 crisis. in this context, i welcome the fact that in recent years olaf has been strengthened and the european public prosecutor's office created. this is a first step, but we still need to make progress in tracing fraud and mismanagement. i am also concerned about the very low absorption capacity of the member states. only 9 out of 27 states have a better absorption capacity compared to 2012, the european average being just 40%. how do we get our economy back on track with numbers this low? what is the point of providing such a large amount of money if the governments are not able to use it? ladies and gentlemen, many projects are under way and must be completed quickly. data mining, with programmes such as arachne or ceeds, better transparency of funds, digitalisation of procedures, simplification of administrative rules, better training and technical assistance for administrations, but also for applicants, especially the smallest smes. the union must make progress in each of these areas. the coming years will be crucial for the european project. the management of the health crisis and its economic impacts, respect for the rule of law, implementation of the green deal, digital transition, research and innovation, the emergence of a europe of health are all topics on which we are expected to work and for which we will need to provide sufficient budgetary resources to implement these policies that are essential for our growth and our future.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, the debate on budgetary discharges does not excite the masses and yet it allows us to affirm a political orientation that will preside over the proper functioning of our institutions. in this context, a number of us have tabled amendments to improve the functioning of our institutions. firstly, we note that many communications and working documents are available in english only, that many meetings are held without the possibility of interpretation and that this situation has worsened with the health crisis. so i know that some of you are very attached to the treaty, i could quote all the articles, as well as the basic law which imposes multilingualism and really, i insist on this because european parliamentarians must be able to express themselves in their mother tongue. this brings richness and diversity to our debates, but above all it guarantees equal quality in legislative work, and therefore more resources are needed for interpreters. i congratulate them; they are doing a great job, but there must be more of them if our legislative work is to be of quality. second point: this may seem marginal to you, but for me it is essential. our institutions consume goods and services which european companies are capable of producing. but all too often we use foreign companies in our public procurement and frankly, furnishing our offices or using all kinds of chinese-made equipment, when european companies are ready to do so, is a pity. we can make an effort and that is why i think we need to change our public procurement procedures and include in the funding programmes a minimum threshold of materials or services purchased from european companies and suppliers. it may seem superficial to you, but to me, it's essential. europe is also built by concrete actions.
i have to say, madam president, we have been happy to work on the discharge report and, in view of the many advances in transparency, we will also be in favour. however, we are facing major challenges. we have, in this period, some 290 billion uncalled for because of the lack of projects, because the member states are too slow, because the regions have problems with our legal requirements. 290 billion unused at the same time we are allocating 750 billion euros of fresh money for the reconstruction of corona. of course, solidarity is appropriate in the face of the pandemic, but this money should be invested quickly in the future of the regions. - how fast? the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. we are therefore obliged to the taxpayers and we will be very careful about recovery, because rapid crisis relief must not be at the expense of a serious approach to money. we have a great responsibility here - the commission and the court of auditors alike. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council.
madam president, citizens need to be able to rely on the fact that the money spent by eu institutions and agencies is money well spent and it is spent in a correct and careful way. this is crucial for the trust that citizens have in our work and it is why these discharge procedures are therefore so important. i would like to thank all my colleagues for the good cooperation on these reports on the other institutions. there are always politically sensitive topics involved and i’m very glad to see that we managed to find common ground on so many different issues. we spoke with one voice in condemning the harassment by a member of the european economic and social committee and the lack of support, rehabilitation and compensation for the victims, and we kept pushing for the committee to improve the rules of procedure and the code of conduct. furthermore, we agreed on recommendations and critical notes concerning important topics like geographical and gender balance, ethics and integrity, equal opportunities for people with disabilities, and fair financial compensation for trainees. as in previous years, we will not grant discharge to the council due to a continuous lack of cooperation on information exchange, which is quite frankly becoming ridiculous. we will vote on these reports this week, but our work will not end there. as discharge authority, we have a continuous duty to protect the eu budget and to tackle any misconduct within our institutions and agencies, and we will continue to do so.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our role as european parliamentarians is to exercise democratic control over the european executive and the policies that are being pursued on behalf of our fellow european citizens. and when that executive goes astray, it's our responsibility to tell him that's unacceptable. yes, it was unacceptable that the european union was paying 20 million euros to the eritrean authorities for a road renovation project using the edf; it was unacceptable to repair roads for a dictatorship that institutionalized forced labor and oppressed its people. i am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission listened to us last year and took action to stop the second tranche of €60 million from being paid to this shameful project and to ensure that it was redistributed to eritrean refugees wherever they are. yes, it is unacceptable that the european union should stand by and watch these tragedies, the sinking of migrant boats off the coast of libya. look, just a few days ago, european and libyan authorities were informed that there were three boats of migrants in distress, and no one went to rescue them. at least 130 people were left unrescued and neither frontex, nor our national european authorities, nor the libyan coastguard - which was very close by - wanted to intervene. this incident is in addition to the many incompetencies and refusal of the libyan coast guard to conduct effective search and rescue operations. this european aid to the libyan coastguards is a disgrace to europe, especially since there is no human rights guarantee or conditionality required. we, the green group, refuse to give the european commission the 2021 discharge for the edf and ask it to stop all european funding to the libyan coastguard and to submit to parliament an honest and thorough assessment of the use of european aid.
madam president, the european development fund has been of crucial importance for the development of countries, particularly in africa, and also for their stabilization. it will now be part of the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument, which has an amount of around eur 80 billion. but this must be a priority for all presidencies, and particularly for the portuguese presidency. apart from the african countries, we must not forget those who are suffering the most at the moment on that continent, such as mozambique. the subsidies should be mainly for young people, for education, for vocational training and also for health. it is also essential that there should be transparency and the commission should, for example, move towards a digital platform where the final beneficiaries are registered and known.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not voting on the discharge for frontex today. we in this parliament are sending a political signal to its leadership: the time of impunity is over. no, this parliament will not tolerate an eu agency being involved in serious violations of the fundamental rights of migrants at the borders of our union. the agency must put an end to these practices, which must be brought to light without delay, and responsibility must be established. it must also recruit fundamental rights officers without delay. the same political message is also addressed to the council, because, while frontex and its management are on the hook today, they are only the arm of a murderous european migration policy, supported by our governments. yes, fortress europe is killing; that's 130 more people who drowned in the mediterranean last week. i think of their loved ones and the humanitarians who tried to help them but were unsuccessful.
madam president, i consider it a great honour to be asked to be a shadow rapporteur for so many major european union bodies, because i am one of those who believe that these bodies - among them the european medicines agency, the european centre for disease prevention, the european institute for gender equality and many other powerful and important bodies - add value to the european union. it is essentially the pillar of the european union's work. and you know very well that the methodical and intensive work of our committee chair, monika hohlmeier, and of our dear colleagues the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs and all the members of the committee, has played a major role in enabling this task to be accomplished with reports to the committee on budgets. but i think that the aim and the purpose of our countries are the same: to be able to protect the money of the european taxpayer and at the same time to be able to develop these organizations. i would therefore also like to stress the importance and value of the audit authorities of the court of auditors and olaf. in addition, it is very important to mention that these organizations save money for the european union. i would also like to say to our dear budget commissioner, who is one of the most efficient and competent commissioners, that every euro given to the audit services should not be considered an expense, but an important investment that brings multiple benefits to the institutions and to the european union itself, to the development and further progress of the institutions.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation on the joint undertaking files. joint undertakings are public-private partnerships that play a key role in implementing specific aspects of european policy by engaging strategic industry partners across borders and business sectors, consolidating european research and creating a powerful framework for academic and industrial research. these days, we have seen more than ever that joint ventures are of great importance when we speak about health, clean energy and economic recovery. as an example, the innovative medicines initiative is supporting projects that are making valuable contributions to global efforts to tackle the covid-19 pandemic. obviously, this result could not be achieved without an intervention on the european union scale. however, the joint undertakings should improve and review their communication strategy to ensure that the relevant stakeholders are aware of their mission activities and achievements.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the commission, but also the secretary-general and the president of the european parliament and all the authorities who have been so willing - sometimes not quite so willing, but at least - to speak to us and give us an answer. we have had success in many areas, but i would like to list three areas where i believe we urgently need to make improvements. first, the issue of conflicts of interest. i cannot understand how a minister of agriculture who is responsible in the czech republic for allocating the funds to himself, who is responsible for negotiating the agricultural budget, should not be in a conflict of interest in allocating the funds to himself. i need someone to explain this to me. i cannot understand mr babiš either, and there are a few other cases in addition to this where we urgently need to clarify here in this sector how we are finally dealing with the issue of conflicts of interest. secondly, the lack of location, the lack of transparency. a problem is the high concentration of many grants, particularly in the area of shared management. we need to set limits on the amount of aid granted to individuals and also to impose a certain limit on the amount of aid granted to companies. and thirdly, we have over 300 different systems in shared management to report and inform. it's all highly complex and opaque. we want more transparency, more digitisation and simplification of bureaucracy.
president of the european court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking you for the great support and the positive words which have been heard in the debate on the court of auditors today. i can promise that i will take this to luxembourg and pass it on to my colleagues. mrs hohlmeier raised a very crucial point in her last contribution, when she was talking about how we can be more effective and how we can be better. it has pointed out that there are up to 300 different systems in the member states - i can only confirm that. we have, of course, the problem that we have with our tests, again and again, that they are confronted with completely different systems, and these different systems are of course not compatible with a possible digital test. i would perhaps ask this house, the legislature, the commission and the council to consider - and to consider very seriously - whether a change in the financial regulation, so to speak, with a long-term perspective, could at least ensure that all those who handle european money in europe provide compatible data which can then also be used in a simple, digitised procedure. we're talking about digitization everywhere, including in the yard. we are constantly finding that we are facing considerable obstacles and problems from the very beginning, simply because of the different facts, the different systems, and that this must be fundamentally changed at some point. i do not believe that we can harmonize all of this, but i do think that it must at least be compatible. i think that is imperative and that is something that can be prescribed. i should like to say a few words about the situation of our resources, because of course today too, in the discharge declaration, as in the conference of committee chairmen, we are hearing a great many wishes in the council, just as that we should do everything anytime, please! but then we also need the resources to do it. the european parliament, the conference of committee chairs, has sent us - and we are pleased to see this - over 100 proposals for special reports. we end up doing 25, 30, 35, in particularly good years, maybe even up to 50; that's about half of the resources we're putting into this. that means that the demand in this area is obviously very, very large. it's always a complex process for us to weigh what we're going to do and what we're not going to do. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not already in the process of adopting a decision on the matter. i'm sorry about that. all of this has its limits, and we have to make decisions every time with the limited resources we have, what works and what doesn't, and it's ultimately always something where compromises have to be made. i simply ask for your understanding that this is the case and that it will probably remain so in the future. we will not be able to meet all the wishes and demands that is simply a fact. i think that is a very good way of putting it. thank you again for your attention.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i listened with great interest to the debate and, above all, to the various requests for resources from various quarters. i could also agree with that, because the commission is called upon to implement in the end all that was agreed in the multiannual financial framework. but i think we are all equally called upon - even in the light of the limited resources that we ultimately have at our disposal - to identify potential where we can make further savings on the one hand, shifts that will ultimately enable us to actually meet our tasks. i would like to point out that there are significant untapped opportunities in the field of artificial intelligence, which we must all identify and ultimately apply. i would like to add my voice to what monika hohlmeier and president lehne have said. for example, if we are faced with the fact that there are 300 programmes in shared resource management alone, which ultimately prevent successful interoperability, we must do everything together to enforce this interoperability - i say this very deliberately - because if there is interoperability, then there is automatically a dramatic reduction in programmes, and then there are also additional possibilities to rely more on artificial intelligence, so to speak, in the processing of information and data, etc. and to use people, so to speak, where it is about interpretation, the analysis of the corresponding data, and not that we have to waste resources - in the true sense of the word - to physically get to data. i believe that we have common tasks to tackle here, and i would also like to say that we have indeed been able to achieve successes together in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, particularly as regards the possibility of having direct access to the final beneficiaries at european level. i regret, however, that this joint decision could not be implemented in the sectoral negotiations, and we are back to where we were before. so, in view of the limited, or rather limited, but limited financial possibilities, we all have to think about where efficiency gains are possible, which we must then ultimately use in our respective institutions. i have, in any case, instructed the commission to look into this in detail for our sector. it is a complex exercise, but i think we would be well advised to approach it in an institutional way, because ultimately we all benefit from it and the first step should be to ensure interoperability within our institutions.
acting president of the council. madam president, thank you very much for this very useful debate. i listened very carefully to the speeches of the rapporteurs and also to those of the commissioner and the president of the court of auditors. this exercise is relevant to assess how eu funds have been managed and the added value they bring to the functioning of the institutions, the european economy and, above all, the well-being of citizens. the evaluation of budget implementation is becoming increasingly important. this will be particularly relevant for the year 2020 in view of the unprecedented crisis we are facing and the additional effort that is being required in this context to verify the legality and the compliance of the implementation of the union budget. as regards the possibility of resuming negotiations with the european parliament with a view to resolving the dispute over discharge in respect of the section of the budget relating to the european council and the council, i would like to thank mr pascal durand for his frank and positive intervention, as well as mr bas eickhout and other members of parliament, and to tell them that we are ready to reach an understanding which will allow for pragmatic cooperation with the european parliament during the discharge process, while preserving the positions of principle of both institutions. we are well aware of the background to this process. the council submitted a proposal for a memorandum of understanding in 2011 and the european parliament reacted to it in 2017. the council has twice revised its initial draft in order to move closer to a compromise. however, the latest version of parliament, from may 2020, was considered a step back from previous positions of the european parliament. that said, we are ready to continue to discuss this matter in a constructive manner, considering that there are better chances of reaching an agreement if we return to the texts exchanged between our two institutions in 2018 and 2019. we agree on one thing: we must show that the union is at the service of its citizens and we must also make it work better and better. that is our common goal and i therefore thank you once again for your hard work to achieve it. thank you again.
in writing. the closure procedure is the european union's main financial control mechanism, which begins with the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors and ends with the adoption by the plenary of the discharge reports. it is a positive result that the use of the agricultural budget has never been so regular, according to the court's opinion. however, it is regrettable that, despite the improvement in the results of recent years, the report gave a negative opinion on the legality and regularity of union expenditure. the regularity of the implementation of the union budget shows a general deterioration towards the end of the seven-year programming period, due to the acceleration of payments and the completion of major investments. it is important that the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control exercise their financial control function as effectively as possible and do their utmost to ensure that union funds are used in a lawful and orderly manner.
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, for me it’s a great honour to be here and indeed i’m not vilija blinkevičiūtė, who is the rapporteur of this file, but she is ill at the moment, so she asked me to deliver her speech. so i’m going to do this as best i can. so please bear with me and pretend that i’m vilija. i think here today we are here to discuss the european globalisation adjustment fund for displaced workers (egf) and, for health reasons, i’m not able to be here with you today, but my colleague ms jongerius will present my position as parliament’s rapporteur. to start, i would like to express my gratitude and appreciation to everyone who was involved in the egf negotiations. it was thanks to your efforts and your dedication that we were able to achieve an excellent result. so a big thanks goes to all my colleagues, all the shadow rapporteurs, of course, also maria arena, who was a rapporteur during the previous mandate, commissioner schmit, and the colleague from the commission, the croatian, the german presidency and the current council team and, of course, to all the staff. i’m convinced that the outcome of the negotiations and the agreement that we found with the council will further strengthen the egf and its very important instruments to help dismissed workers. this will be crucial in the difficult times to come, with the immense social and economic effects of the covid-19 pandemic. many people have lost their jobs already and it’s our job to help them to find new employment. the new egf is far better equipped to respond to these challenges. let me briefly remind you of the most significant achievements. firstly, the egf interventions will no longer be exclusively linked to globalisation or an economic or financial crisis, but will cover any restructuring events in the future of a company, a sector or a region. this change will make the egf far more accessible than before. we have managed to introduce a threshold of dismissed workers from currently 500 to 200, which allows more dismissed workers to benefit from the egf matches, therefore increasing their chances to return to employment again. we expect that both the increased scope and the lower threshold will result in an increase of applications, and the egf has an annual ceiling of eur 186 million to provide for support. much to my regret, the member states were not willing to agree on a higher ceiling as demanded by parliament and the commission, not even in the light of the current crisis. we were, however, successful in securing a childcare allowance, among other special time-limited measures to support dismissed workers. i think it’s of extreme importance, as it will have also a practical importance in daily life for people with children who are already struggling at the moment. they can rest assured that they have the means to provide for their family while participating in reskilling or any other vocational training or education activities supported by the egf. we also increased the amount of financial support to eur 20 000 for dismissed workers who wish to start their own businesses, and we hope it will provide a good incentive for entrepreneurship. last but not least, the new name of the egf is from now on the european globalisation fund for displaced workers. it has been changed to underline the true mission of this fund, namely to support the workers who lost their jobs and to avoid any misunderstandings of the past that the fund supports companies that lay off workers. to wrap up, i really am convinced and proud that for the next seven years we have reinforced the egf, which is much better equipped to support people who have lost their jobs and to return them to sustainable employment. just as a last sentence on behalf of myself, on behalf of our whole political group, the s&d group, i really want to thank vilija for all her hard work on this important file. she did a great job and she managed to get support for even more workers throughout europe and to help them to return to sustainable employment in these times of need, and i think this is very much appreciated, so thank you for that, vilija.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament, in particular the rapporteur ms blinkevičiūtė, for all the efforts to conclude the negotiations at the end of last year. the commission supports the overall agreement that has been reached in the trilogue. since 2007 the european globalisation fund (egf) has received 169 applications. some eur 636 million have been mobilised to help about 155 workers in 21 member states. the average reintegration rates of the 2014—2020 period were around 60%, which is a great achievement considering that the egf is assisting the most vulnerable groups of displaced workers. and now, more than ever, it is essential that the egf provides continued support to workers who have lost their jobs in the current challenging economic and social situation. at the end of 2020 we received six applications, among them an application from estonia aimed at 5 000 people who lost their jobs in the tourism industry. they fall under the previous regulation. not later than today, the commission proposes eur 1.1 million to support 500 foundry workers in germany, and there’s another proposal by the commission of eur 3.7 million to support nearly 1 500 dismissed airport workers in belgium, and we all know that for the time being airports and aviation are in a very critical situation. all this shows that the need for a fund like the egf that demonstrates european solidarity with displaced workers who fall victim to the economic downturn; structural changes are absolutely necessary. this is even more important in the current juncture where we need to mitigate the impact of the covid-19 crisis. we did well to broaden the scope of the fund. the new egf will enable more workers to benefit from it in a simpler way. it will no longer be conditional on the cause of restructuring which has led to their dismissal. the threshold has been reduced to at least 200 workers made redundant, currently 500. on a proposal from parliament we also included a provision in case the fund’s resources are exhausted at year end in order to avoid any funding gaps. the revamped egf will thus be more flexible, allowing the union to react to economic challenges the future might bring. this is of paramount importance in a fast-changing world undergoing major technological transitions. the egf complements the support offered by the european social fund which can be programmed in advance and offers support in an anticipatory way. both the egf and the esf contribute to the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. we need to use all tools available to preserve and strengthen social cohesion, especially in times of crisis. with the objective of building a strong social europe we have put forward the european social pillar action plan setting out ambitious goals and concrete measures which should also guide the recovery strategy. there is only one point where the commission would have liked to go a bit further. the commission considers that the text on the single data mining tool is not sufficient to enhance the protections of the union budget against fraud and irregularities. we already made this point at the trilogue negotiations. we have issued a statement in this regard in our communication on the council position. the commission is very much looking forward to continue the excellent cooperation with the european parliament and the council, and to ensure that the european globalisation adjustment fund for displaced workers expresses the solidarity of the european union with people dismissed due to major restructuring events, contributing to enhancing social cohesion and ultimately to the resilience of our economy and society.
on behalf of the ppe group president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the shadow rapporteur on behalf of the epp group, i am very pleased that we can finally vote on the new european globalisation fund to support redundant workers. with the current coronavirus crisis and brexit, this renewed and strengthened european globalisation adjustment fund is badly needed as a social safety net for our workers. and it may be said: parliament has weighed in on the negotiations. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for this. our main points are clearly reflected in this agreement: a broader scope for redundancies due to digitalisation, climate transition and brexit. we have significantly reduced the threshold for eligibility for this fund from 500 to 200 redundant workers, so that more sme workers can claim support in their search for a new job. the amount is also being increased, representing an increase of 24% compared with the previous egf. the fund has proved its worth in the past and the commissioner has already referred to this. and it may be clear that the enhanced egf will play an even more important role for affected workers in the post-corona and post-brexit era. i would therefore like to thank the commission for the decision it has taken today to allocate 3.7 million for the 1 500 former employees of swissair belgium. thank you, sir. europe, solidarity and the single market
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mr reynders, you will now have to ensure the rule of law in europe with the european justice programme and you know that it will not be easy to be credible, i am afraid, because you have been a minister for 20 years 21 years? of a country regularly denounced by the group of states against corruption. and just when you're about to start your european work, an explosive book comes out about you and your firm's role, real or alleged, in business, embezzlement - what else? - unfair contracting, libyan funds, etc. we don't know it here, but the belgian press has slaughtered you. the night: the reynders clan attacked in an explosive book; de morgen: 'mr reynders should never have been a european commissioner'. even your own party doesn't defend you much and almost says that fortunately you're no longer a minister. so how do you expect, with all these suspicions, to be credible in defending the rule of law in europe? or are you thinking that there's a saying that old poachers make the best game wardens, and that's all right? i'm asking you.
mr president, in a crisis one should not make too many un-nuanced decisions. i'd like to say: we are all here in circumstances where we can continue our work. that's not true for a lot of companies that have continuity issues. it is very difficult for tourism at the moment. our businessmen and tourism sector are bleeding right now. we are therefore very pleased that the commission has come forward with this proposal to ensure that people can travel safely and try to work in a normal way again. we have also contributed to improving a number of points in the proposal. we have pushed for a name change so that the eu covid-19 certificate would be called the eu covid-19 certificate instead of the digital green certificate. we have also worked hard for data protection, which is very important, and for non-discrimination among citizens. my delegation is now going to vote, but we are still worried. we ask the commission, the council and parliament to improve one more detail, namely the medical data. they're only to be seen by a medical professional.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament, the european commission and the council have committed themselves in a binding way to the introduction of new own resources, new revenue for the budget, which should be sufficient to pay off the debt resulting from the european recovery and resilience plan, the so-called next generation eu. we cannot burden the citizens of the european union with more taxes and, on the other hand, we do not want to cut the future budget, its funds or its policies. the introduction of new own resources is therefore based on a simple principle: those who do not pay must pay. and the digital giants, who use and have enormous benefits in the internal market, must do their bit. we must move towards this goal independently of the oecd agreement. the european union must show that it is capable, that it is an example. i hope that the oecd will agree, but if it does not, we will move forward.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all let me welcome your very good report on digital taxation because, of course, we are in a crisis that makes the taxation of digital businesses and global minimum taxation even higher priorities – both in order to secure much needed tax revenues for the recovery and to ensure that everyone contributes their fair share. this is even more relevant for large digital companies, who are among the real winners in this crisis – higher profits, larger market share – while most traditional businesses have been severely affected. so we will redouble our efforts to reach an agreement at global level – both on the reallocation of taxing rights and on minimum effective taxation – by mid—2021, because a global solution is of course the best way to address these challenges. in this domain, we welcome the recent decision of the us to withdraw their ‘safe harbour’ proposal. we know that the us are also proposing a few new ideas to simplify and widen the scope of pillar one to capture the largest and most profitable multinationals worldwide. an agreement on pillar one along these lines, covering the global share of the taxable base of six or seven digital companies, should not prevent the eu and its member states from adopting a digital levy, since this has a different scope and is needed to restore a level playing field in the single market and contribute to financing the recovery and the resilience of the eu economy. regarding the project for the other pillar – global minimum effective taxation – the recent announcement by the us government on a possible us tax reform will also bring a new dynamic. the new administration is in favour of a minimum effective tax rate that is higher than the one previously discussed at the oecd. so, undoubtedly, work still needs to be done to bridge differences, but recent us announcements and the ongoing work on the oecd blueprints create a good chance for a political agreement at g20 level in the coming months and we must maintain momentum. from the european commission’s point of view, the two pillars under discussion are, and should remain, a package. their objectives are complementary and we need a solution on both of them to provide a comprehensive answer to the tax challenges of modern economies. at the same time, the commission services are working on a proposal for the digital levy, which will also serve as the basis for a new eu own resource. this stems, as you know, from the clear mandate from the european council last year, which is also enshrined in the interinstitutional agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) of last december. we will be ready to table this proposal in mid-2021, as agreed, with the aim to make it operational from 2023 onwards. let me reassure you that finding a global solution remains the key priority for the commission. this is why we will work to develop a design that does not interfere with the oecd process. there are ways to do this so that we meet eu objectives and actively support the oecd. moreover, we will ensure that the design of such a digital levy is not discriminatory and thus fully in line with the eu international obligation under world trade organization (wto) agreements. the digital levy should not fuel trade tension in any way. the commission will also ensure that the design of the digital levy is compatible with the eu’s key policy objective of supporting and accelerating the digital transition. in conclusion, this terrible and extraordinary crisis could pave the way for new progress on global and digital taxation. i’m sure that we will work together to seize this opportunity.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the mandate of the g20 finance ministers to develop a new framework for taxing the digital economy is now four years old. since then, much has been said, much has been negotiated, but little has been decided. the problem of unfair taxation of the digital economy has not diminished, but rather increased over the last four years. it is of course good that the new us administration under joe biden has signaled some flexibility on this important issue, but as the saying goes, one swallow does not make a summer, one comment from joe biden does not make an oecd agreement. that is why we as europeans have to deal with the question of how we deal with these proposals, and i find it interesting that we have a number of member states who have suddenly said on the subject of minimum taxation: 'no, but we are not involved because we have lower rates than those proposed by joe biden'. i would just like to say that we europeans should also learn to act as europeans and to work together as europeans. the easiest way would be to follow the report of our two rapporteurs, because many of the points are correctly named. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. i would also like to thank mr schwab very warmly for this, and we should now, as europeans, put our weight on the scales and not fight amongst ourselves.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, nobody likes to pay taxes, but they are necessary because they finance, among other things, the education of our children, the care of our sick, the pensions of our elderly. but taxes must be fair. that means they have to be balanced and proportionate. everyone has to do their part. and that's not the case now. a single flemish worker, for example, pays more than half of his salary in taxes. this is in stark contrast to the digital companies that pay barely 9.5% in taxes. through all sorts of tax structures, these digital and multinational companies are deliberately evading their contribution. they want to do business everywhere, but nowhere to pay taxes. this is socially irresponsible, undermines solidarity and means unfair competition with small and mediumsized enterprises. the coronavirus crisis has exacerbated this injustice. families and local businesses are having a very hard time. big tech, however, reported $38 billion in profits last quarter alone, and they're still trying to keep taxes down. the pleasures are for a few super-rich shareholders, the burdens for the community. that's a parasitic model. we therefore support the idea that digital companies should contribute and pay taxes in the countries where they operate, and not where they happen to be headquartered. what we do not support, however, is that the european union should collect these taxes and then waste them on its many useless institutions and inefficient policies. the taxation of goods and services must be tailored to the specific social needs of a country, not to the insatiable money-hunger of the bureaucrats of the european union. we call on the council to work together to harmonize national taxes whether or not within the oecd so that multinational and digital companies also make a fair contribution to social and fiscal justice within the people's community. we also call on the council not to introduce an eu tax. at least, if the member states do not want to make their country a subordinate province of the european union and condemn their population to fiscal slavery.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. finally, there is a chance for a fair tax system tax the rich. during the global lockdown, when retailers were forced to close, online commerce was booming. google, amazon and co. are among the beneficiaries. they have generated billions in sales and in return they give nothing, little to nothing, back to society. this is because of an unfair, outdated tax system. a tax system based on physical presence and national borders is simply outdated. that is why we need a digital tax. we need a digital tax that goes along with a global corporate tax, and the 21 percent is just the beginning, because the online giants have to do their fair share of it, and these are taxes that they finally have to pay. the time has come. we have a chance at tax justice now.
member of the commission. – madam president, i share the sense of optimism that i heard in many of your interventions, honourable colleagues, honourable members. the principles are not new: stop the race to the bottom on minimum taxation and update the allocation of taxing rights for the digital era. these principles were not easy to implement despite the fact that they are principles in the commission and, for sure, in the majority of this parliament. but something new is there: first, the crisis made crystal clear the need for these reforms and, second, the global situation is much more promising in this discussion. the us position is a game changer, of course. we will contribute to the debate; we are not only following other proposals. but we believe this proposal is heading precisely in the right direction, and we will support efforts to reach an agreement, as well as subsequent efforts to transpose this agreement into the eu legal framework. at the same time, we will table our proposal for a european digital levy. we deem this possible without undermining the ongoing oecd negotiations. it will be an ambitious and balanced approach, and i’m sure that it will be a common effort from the commission and parliament.
in writing. talking about a digital tax that would finally make the internet giants contribute is only fair. i can't believe it's taking this long. i am afraid that this proposal also leaves some loopholes open, particularly in terms of profit shifting. but let us not pretend that the european union is suddenly leading the fight for fair taxation. because as we're talking about how digital companies can be taxed, the country-by-country reporting bill, which would require multinationals to report country-by-country exactly what they're bringing into a country, is being eroded. this is how tax evasion or avoidance by multinationals will continue. tropical tax havens are already in the process of being created. at the same time, it is the us government which should be proposing to impose a minimum tax rate on multinationals. we have been fighting for this for years as a left-wing group, and to a considerable extent, but you can still hear it thunder in cologne, if you are listening at all. people are tired of the big guys always evading taxes and refusing to pay for our public utilities and services.
madam president, mr nicolas, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in 2019, as pointed out by ms brunet, 22.2% of children, i.e. 18 million children, in the eu were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. so the coronavirus pandemic is not included in these numbers, and everyone knows, there is no disagreement, that the coronavirus pandemic is doing the most economic damage, especially to low- and middle-income families. that means that when we get the next numbers on the table, the trend will be even more dramatic. i'm going to take this one step further. ladies and gentlemen, if someone in your constituency were to hear the phrase 'children must have access to running water and sanitation at home and at school' and you were to ask 'what are we doing in the european parliament?' and if you ask the question, "what is the situation of children in the third world?" and i would have to say, "no, we're talking about the situation of children in the european union". this is shameful, and that is why it is important that we, as a parliament, send a strong signal here a few days before the social summit in porto that we want a real game changer. i would like to conclude by saying a word to mrs griset. i think it is a travesty that someone who has been accused of misusing european taxpayers' money for party funds should stand here and be afraid that we will spend european money on migrants, on young unaccompanied refugees. i'd rather spend the money on unaccompanied refugees and youth than on your fascist party in france.
president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, the figures have already been mentioned but one in five children in europe lives in poverty, and that is indeed 18 million children in all of europe. for my own country, the netherlands, that amounts to 250,000 children: 250 000 children living in insecurity. and i don't think we need to make a lot of noise about it. that is simply unacceptable. all children deserve to be assured of a safe haven where they can rest their heads at night. they deserve to be assured of fair opportunities in education so they can pursue their dreams. and they deserve to be sure of a full bread basket when they go to school. that is why i am voting, we are voting, for the child guarantee scheme for vulnerable children. because every child has the right to shelter, to health and to a good education. we have made funds available from europe to tackle child poverty, and it is up to the member states to use them now. that is why i call on the dutch government: cities and regions are eager to tackle child poverty. it is now up to the government to seize this opportunity. don't wait any longer. every child deserves a good start in life.
madam president, child poverty is a critical issue that must be tackled by putting all the resources at the disposal of the union. it is the children who should receive the funds, but we must not impose an ideology to achieve this or undermine the sovereignty of the member states by following the dictates of supranational entities or the 2030 agenda. this proposal calls for the anti-discrimination directive to be repealed and for the creation of a european child authority to supervise our countries. neither education nor social policies are the competence of the union. he proclaims a universal public education, as if private education were any less legitimate. it also wants to end differentiated education, calling it segregating, when it is just another option that has been scientifically proven to be beneficial. we need a pluralist vision of education that offers parents the possibility of choice. a single model of life cannot be imposed, let alone with an intersectional approach or based on gender ideology, which destroys the harmony of relationships and the family. if we want a society of hope for our children, let us put forward social policies that put the prosperity of the family at the centre of their priorities.
president, commissioner, secretary of state, colleagues, with this child guarantee we are taking an important step forward in a broader strategy for the rights of the child and this strategy must be based on the three major pillars of the un convention on the rights of the child: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. it is good that more than ten thousand children were involved in the preparation of the strategy, but i think that the participation of children should also be structurally anchored. we must protect our children, all children, from all forms of abuse and violence. the protection pillar cannot remain a dead letter, and it is therefore high time that legislative initiatives were taken. last but not least: provision more than one in five children in the eu lives in poverty. this is unacceptable. the child guarantee should guarantee the fundamental social rights of all vulnerable children: the right to care, education, health care, healthy food, housing. with the social pillar action plan, we want to lift five million children out of poverty by 2030. unfortunately, this ambition may be even stronger if it depends on the intergroup on the fight against poverty. if you don't invest in young children, you risk losing an entire generation. and make no mistake, if we want to tackle child poverty, we cannot separate it from the families in which they grow up. we also need structural measures.
mr president, fraud corrupts society and is a waste of public funds. experts tell us that the average cost of fraud amounts to 5% of the budget in all organisations. this adds up to eur 90 billion in 7 years in the eu. the more fraud there is, the weaker democracy will be. that’s why i strongly support the anti-fraud programme of the eu. it is effective and efficient for tackling fraud in places where it occurs, in a professional way, with the use of objective criteria, free of bias and political opinion and discussions. the rule of law is targeting the abuse of public funds too, but it will most likely end in bickering and tension among member states because it sets controversial conditions for financial support and funding, thereby even running the risk of corrupting member states and, by doing so, adding to the problem instead of solving it. let me make myself clear: the fight against fraud is too important to be misused for political purposes, and it deserves to get our unconditional support.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this constructive debate and the encouraging messages. the parliament profoundly influenced the set—up of the new anti—fraud programme and helped to find quick agreement. we will now focus on the timely implementation of the anti—fraud programme. of course, the commission will inform the parliament about the implementation of the programme in the framework of the annual report on the protection of the union’s financial interests. i then look forward to the recommendations expressed by the parliament in this context. by the way, i really like the picture presented by mr freund – this programme, in terms of its amount in comparison to the potential frauds – taking as a picture this little excavator, and then, on the other hand, you have this big vessel blocking the suez canal owned by a shipping company called evergreen. so, this was a very nice picture. i have to say we will launch the new multiannual financial framework and the next generation eu recovery instrument immediately. we have already done so and we have now to use the necessary tools. it’s crucial that the union and the member states protect the taxpayers’ money and ensure that every euro is really correctly and efficiently spent, and i’m sure that we will see a significant return of investment of the money we are investing into this programme, and i’m definitely sure that this regulation will help achieve all these objectives. once again, thank you for all your efforts to have this programme up and running.
the debate is closed. i would inform the honourable members that no proposals to reject the council's position or amendments have been tabled under rules 67 and 68 of the rules of procedure and that, according to our rules, the council's position is therefore deemed to have been approved and the proposed act adopted.
the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european defence fund and repealing regulation (eu) 2018/1092 (06748/1/2020 c9 0112/2021 - 2018/0254 (cod)) (rapporteur: zdzisław krasnodębski (a9-0120/2021) is closed.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am very pleased that after almost three years of work over two terms, after five trialogue meetings with the participation of three council presidencies, after countless meetings of parliament's co-rapporteurs, whose composition has also evolved considerably over time, we are now faced with the opportunity to conclude the legislative procedure at second reading. in this way, i hope we will create a european defence fund for the years 2021-2027. however, i would like to start by recalling what the fund is and what it is not as proposed by the european commission in may 2018, because various myths have arisen in this regard positive and negative. the edf is not the first step towards a european army, and the money from its budget will not be used by the member states to buy arms together. the dream of creating the first european legion or any other permanent military formation within the union must be postponed. maybe someday we'll make that dream come true. the almost €8 billion that eventually came into the fund is indeed earmarked for the union's defence policy, but only for research and development projects carried out jointly by all the member states. it should also be noted that the edf will not subsidize bilateral cooperation between countries, since the minimum number of participants in a project financed is three entities from three member states. moreover, the fund aims not only to support the r&d projects of the european defence industry, but also to bring new players into the cooperation network and supply chain, including those who have not been active in the industry before. another important point: small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-caps will be able to participate in the fund on preferential terms. another very important point to be emphasised is that the aim is to guarantee equal conditions of participation for operators from all member states. the fund will enable member states to save between eur 25 billion and eur 100 billion a year. this is obviously a considerable sum, considering how much the member states have spent so far on their nato alliances. in addition, it is of course an opportunity to develop an industrial base and access advanced technologies through cooperation with foreign partners. for countries with less developed defence industries, this is one of the biggest advantages of the fund. next, it is important to realize where the dangers are. the first danger is that the member states will be able to buy the products that will be developed under this fund, otherwise this fund will be nothing but a piece of art for a piece of art. it is important to emphasise here that the european commission will play a significant role through the newly created directorate-general for defence and space industries (dg defis), because it is important what programmes the commission will choose. we as the european parliament will be watching the implementation of the edf and in the next term of office, if this fund does not fulfil its tasks and the expectations that were attached to it, especially in terms of fair and transparent distribution of the fund's resources, we will demand its review. some of you are hesitant to support our deal with the council for ideological reasons. well, i would like to tell them that the big success and the major change compared to the partial predecessor of the edf european defence industrial development programme (edidp) was the elimination by the parliament of ethical controls on the funded projects, including much more restrictive rules on technologies that will not be able to receive funding from the fund. i remember how long we have been discussing this and i appreciate all the more the concessions made by the council in this respect. i would also like to stress that i am convinced that the ongoing rivalry between china and the united states, as well as the volatile situation on our southern and eastern borders (which we had the opportunity to discuss yesterday with the high representative), mean that the union should attach increasing importance to common defence and, consequently, increase spending in this area. but we must always remember that nato and strong transatlantic ties remain the foundation of european security, and that is not going to change anytime soon, but we should be doing much more as europeans to defend ourselves. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the fund's sole purpose is to support joint european projects in the research and development phase. in the vote in the itre committee, the outcome of our negotiations was supported by a large majority of members. in order to preserve the agreement with the council, i ask you to reject all the amendments tabled in plenary and to vote for the text as we have negotiated it.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, i am very pleased to be able to speak in this house about defence, and in particular, of course, about the european defence fund. first of all, i would like to thank mr krasnodębski for his work as rapporteur for the itre committee and of course also mr cristian buşoi, the chairman of the committee, as well as all the fictitious rapporteurs and presidencies who have accompanied you. it is a long-term task, of course, which we are discussing together in this house this morning, and i would really like to thank all those who played an important role, particularly during the previous mandate, in bringing the ambition of the european defence fund to the baptismal font, in particular president juncker. the european defence fund is a turning point in our european integration. we know that in europe we have different defence cultures, and we also have different attitudes towards defence. however, by listening, respecting all sensitivities and sharing a common understanding of global issues, we were able to go beyond this and reach agreement on a budgetary programme for industrial cooperation in the field of defence. i am not afraid to say that this is a truly historic step. the european defence fund is a key milestone in the realisation of a 'europe of defence'; it marks a new stage in our strategic interdependence and our capacity to build bridges for a genuine european ambition. without compromising our historic alliances, europe can no longer be forced to make choices made by others, either because of too much dependence or because of the absence of an acceptable alternative. this is the case in health, we have seen it clearly and covid-19 has reminded us of some of our vulnerabilities that we were able to quickly compensate for, very fortunately; the same is true in terms of technology, with for example semiconductors or the cloud. here too, we will compensate for our fragility. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. and so it is with questions of defence capability. this is especially true in view of the stresses of today's world. europe must be stronger, more resilient and more strategically autonomous. it should be able to gradually supplement its soft power arsenal with more and more hard power attributes. it must be able to take its own security gradually into its own hands and be a player in global security. the european defence fund is thus an essential contribution to greater european sovereignty. it is a vital lever in the defence of our citizens, but also of our interests and values. it is also the basis for our strengthening as a credible partner, particularly vis-à-vis our allies, for example in nato, because the european defence fund, which we have built together, has several key elements and i would like, if you will allow me, to highlight a few of them this morning. first of all, the fund was designed to be a strictly european fund, which should benefit all member states. this is obviously the key to its success and, you can trust me, i will be particularly careful. it also organises european industrial cooperation by imposing criteria such as the number of countries associated with each project financed and also by supporting the integration of small and medium-sized enterprises for each of these projects. it provides real incentives for the opening up of supply chains in order to build genuine european defence industrial chains. it is fully consistent with other defence initiatives such as pesco and eacd. with a budget of €7 billion, it will focus on structuring capacities and technologies in line with priorities defined by the member states. although it is restricted to europeans, it also allows cooperation with non-european entities, subject to certain conditions. finally, it organises the development of disruptive technologies, since 8% of the budget will be devoted to disruptive innovations through open calls for proposals to attract new players, including start-ups. this is therefore a real ambition that we are already pursuing through many of the fund's flagship programmes - the european defence industrial development programme and the preparatory action on defence research. we are already financing 34 high impact and structural projects in the technological and military fields and are finalising the evaluation of the last call for proposals, but the figures for the edip are clear: more than 200 entities in 25 member states benefit from the fund, of which 40% are smes and nine of the 16 projects financed are also pesco projects; the preparatory action on defence research is funded by the european union through 200 entities from 22 member states plus norway. these pioneering programmes therefore show that we have already built a functioning market and will of course continue to do so. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by saying that with the european defence fund we are clearly changing the paradigm of defence cooperation at european level. the stakes are high for europe's place on the world stage and, of course, you can count on my full commitment to achieve this ambition.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. the creation of a common fund to support collaboration and cooperation between different companies and different countries in a field such as defence, which is so characterized by national specificities and is also anchored in differences between states, is a very important step towards political integration and an integration which, i hope, will also contribute to the much-desired common defence policy. and it is in this perspective that i believe we should value this measure. in doing so, we encountered two particular challenges, namely translating the projects that were previously experimental into a real fund: the first challenge, as the commissioner said, was to find a balance between the different countries, between the different sizes of industrial operators in the field, in other words, between large and small operators. an agreement that was broad-based but at the same time efficient, capable of producing results. the second challenge is ethical. i'm sorry you called it "ideology" this morning. ethics is not ideology. ethics is ethics, and i think that's very important in this business. the fund, as all european industrial policies, puts competitiveness at the centre, it has been said, a competitiveness which must lead to the creation of new start-ups, but at the same time also to the development of smes, which we do not want to be marginalised in this development process, which is carried out mainly by the large operators. it is also important for achieving the strategic autonomy that has been called for, and it is no accident that we have worked so hard to ensure that the presence and participation were by consortia that include at least three countries and at least three industrial entities and refer to enlargement, not to a restriction to a few samples or a few countries that are already very strong in the field. this concept of enlargement contributes, as the commissioner said, to europe's strategic autonomy but also to the creation of a conception of our industrial and innovation policies as continental policies which are beneficial for all countries. finally, it is very important to say what the fund will do and what it will not do, because it is very clear - and it must be said loud and clear - that it will not be able to finance weapons production, let alone actions for the development of lethal autonomous weapons without the possibility of human control. and i think these are very important aspects. my group considers them very important. i was not involved in the negotiations from the beginning - i took over from mr martin - but i think these are key points, because we have worked on these aspects and we have made progress in the negotiations on these points. but perhaps we could have done more, commissioner. i say to my colleagues and i say to you: we could also have made progress which would not have hindered the effectiveness and value of this design, of this innovation, but would have gathered a consensus, perhaps even a wider consensus, in parliament. there are, in fact, amendments tabled which make demands which we will accept in the implementing part but we cannot accept them now. it was a tough negotiation. we must support the agreement reached and it would be useless to reopen it: but those themes remain. i therefore ask you, commissioner, and i commit my group to constant attention and monitoring, so that the operation is a success, so that the results we are aiming at are achieved in the common european interest, but also so that these extremely important aspects - and we see this in this period of great conflicts - are always scrupulously observed in the implementation phase.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr zdzisław krasnodębski, for the long work we have done together over two parliaments. today, by voting for the european defence fund, parliament is opening a new page in the construction of europe, a page which all europeans have had in mind since the 1950s and which takes us back to the genesis of the project that binds us together. what clearer expression of our desire to build a geopolitical union than cooperation in such a highly sovereign field. of course, the text does not live up to our budgetary expectations and hopes. at the end of the previous term, i stood in this house to celebrate the fact that the sum of 13 billion euros has now fallen to less than 8 billion, and we must be satisfied with that. but more than the envelope or the technical subtleties of the text, it is the symbol of a europe that innovates, cooperates and protects what we are creating. it is also a sign of maturity in our relationship with the world. in the last 15 years europe has been through various crises and there is a fear that the coming years will force us to draw on natural resources that we had hoped we would never use again. when that day comes, we can rejoice that we have been given the means to stand up for ourselves against our enemies and our allies, that is, for our sovereignty. saint-exupéry said that the future is always only the present to be put in order: we do not have to foresee it, but to allow it. my dear colleagues, by laying the foundation stone for a defence europe, we can put this maxim into practice.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus. they celebrated five years of continuous increases in defense spending. for example, did you know that france and germany alone today spend more on defense than russia combined? can you imagine that? we in europe are not spending too little on defence, we are spending too much on defence. and when it comes to defending ourselves, that's one thing, but to go to war abroad ourselves - we've seen it from libya to afghanistan - that only creates more chaos. meanwhile, our health care system is totally underfunded, our hospitals are under pressure, our health care staff is totally understaffed. and that's the result of political choices, choices to cut back on public services, choices to give those billions to big military corporations instead of investing in health care. these choices cost lives, in europe and far beyond. and what are you doing now, in the middle of a pandemic, in the middle of a health crisis? you are setting up a new european defence fund worth billions: the subsidy slush for the arms multinationals. we don't need another arms race. no, we need peace. put that money into public services, public services, re-industrialization. please invest in health, not war.
mr. president, the pandemic has affected everyone in the world, but latin america has been among the most affected and indebted. to add insult to injury, some countries with authoritarian regimes in the region have taken advantage of this to increase political repression, abusing anti-covid-19 norms to punish any opposition, and intensify their control over their population. in venezuela, the humanitarian crisis, already severe, has only worsened with covid-19. maduro's brutal dictatorship has become even more repressive. cuba has also intensified repression against artists, journalists and human rights defenders. the european union must show its solidarity and support for the region, but not only with vaccines and funding, but also by taking a firm and united stand against human rights violations in these countries.
mr president, the health crisis in latin america, the health crisis in brazil, the humanitarian crisis in india. we are officially now at over three million dead. three million people died. three million people died. but in the meantime, big pharma, the pharmaceutical industries, the big multinationals have given 70 billion euros to their shareholders and they're paying more money to their shareholders than they are to research and development. three million dead, 70 billion to the shareholders. what do you do at the european commission? you defend profit, you defend patent; you're on the wrong side of history. and let me read you a facebook message from a worker: "i feel like saying that their behavior looks like a crime against humanity". and if one day, indeed, this is judged as a crime against humanity, you will have been complicit.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, when you see injustice, you must never be indifferent. the situation in pakistan is not far from our bed. "the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing", edmund burke rightly said. the message from this parliament must therefore be clear. release shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel immediately and unconditionally and repeal the law that sanctions oppression and persecution. where there are blasphemy laws, there is no freedom. blasphemy laws are incompatible with international human rights law and human dignity. this case is part of a general decline in freedom and tolerance in pakistan, including sexual violence against women and children. mr khan may be able to attribute the rise in rape in his country to the so-called moral decline of women, but i attribute the persecution of women and christians to the moral decline of his leadership. and i blame him for his willingness to accept religious fundamentalism as a substitute for good governance. the situation in pakistan is not far from our bed. with their fundamentalism, they want to control our lives here too by putting pressure on cartoonists in france. they are fuelling the hatred against christians, not only in pakistan, but also in europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), we in the committee think that there are many good points in the final report. for example, the inclusion of passages on the freedom to provide services across the union, the freedom of workers to move around and the digitalisation of data exchanges between member states. i would also like to thank the committee on employment and social affairs for its cooperation in trying to incorporate as much as possible from our imco opinion. i know there have been some technical difficulties. however, personally, i would also like to take this moment to underline the importance of a free and functioning internal market. there are elements in this report that suggest that a free and functioning internal market is incompatible with fair working conditions and this is, in my opinion, simply not true. personally, i therefore cannot endorse the full report as it stands now.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr kanev, and the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) for this important report on labour mobility in the european union. today’s discussions are under the best auspices. during the social summit in porto, a new commitment was made to reinforce the social dimension of the eu. the leaders of the eu institutions, heads of state and government, and the european social partners and civil society organisations recognise that the european pillar of social rights action plan is our way forward and endorse the new eu—level 2030 targets on employment, skills and poverty reduction. labour mobility is a crucial element in the action plan and is at the heart of a well-functioning single market. i agree that mobility, the freedom of services, is a fundamental freedom of the european union; but it has to be accompanied by fair working conditions. it has to be fair, and it has to be just for everyone. we have also seen that the freedom of mobility is not an acquis which cannot be called into question, as it has been called into question by the covid—19 crisis, which really brings new challenges. this crisis has highlighted the importance of ensuring the free movement of workers, in particular essential workers. it has also unveiled the harsh reality of strained working and living conditions, especially of seasonal workers. the commission has been working to ensure that the measures to mitigate the health emergency are non-discriminatory and proportionate. in march 2020, we issued guidance to safeguard the free movement of critical workers. in july, we presented guidelines on seasonal workers in order to stress the rights of seasonal workers, including information and social security, and to ensure decent working and living conditions by addressing occupational safety and health, accommodation and transport. the posting of workers is another important element of free movement, as you have also highlighted in your reports. the revised posted workers directive ensures a level playing field between local companies and those providing their services across borders. that is why the posted workers directive is so essential in the context of the internal market. it guarantees a core set of equal rights for posted workers and local workers, for instance as regards minimum rates of pay, conditions of accommodation, and hiring through temporary work agencies. we are monitoring closely how this directive has been transposed into national legislation. the modernisation of the social security coordination rules will also contribute to facilitating free movement and protecting the rights of mobile citizens. in this context, i also hope that, with your support, the co—legislators will find an agreement on the revised rules proposed by the previous commission. looking ahead, in 2022 we will examine the working conditions of posted workers in subcontracting chains and others working across borders, including third—country nationals. this is a request the parliament has put forward in resolutions and that i am keen to follow up. we need to protect and enhance mobile workers’ rights, while ensuring fair mobility based on a level playing field and the responsiveness of labour markets. a key novelty is the establishment of the european labour authority (ela). still in its build-up phase, results are already tangible with better access to information and inspections. ela is launching an action plan on seasonal workers within an awareness—raising campaign informing seasonal workers about their rights. labour mobility is one way of matching labour market needs and skills. the eures network, an online platform connecting public employment services, employers and job seekers, is at the centre of the european labour market. at the same time, we also have to make sure people can develop the skills that are needed in their regions. this is a precondition for a fair and resilient recovery and successful green and digital transitions. the european skills agenda sets out concrete actions to empower individuals to learn, including the upcoming initiatives on individual learning accounts. with the pact for skills, we are engaging public and private organisations to join forces to upskill and reskill people in europe, and this paves the way to reaching the target of at least 60% of adults participating in training every year by 2030. i welcome your resolution and this debate. we are striving to achieve the same goal: ensuring that the rights of mobile workers are protected and eu rules are enforced, and that a fair mobility is safe.
the european parliament has also called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's social policy is not disrupted by the coronavirus. at the beginning of the pandemic, internal borders were suddenly closed and workers were left to fend for themselves. europe was rocked by harrowing stories of workers caught in the crosshairs of the social security system, between their country of work and their country of origin. workers were denied access to their workplaces and others were isolated abroad without access to social security. infected workers were expelled from their countries of work and found to be uninsured for health care in their home countries. this is unacceptable. let the current coronavirus crisis be the ultimate warning for the strong social protection of all workers in europe. europe needs social security coordination without rancor. it is therefore incomprehensible that the negotiations are stalled. the free movement of workers must no longer be a pretext for social dumping. these abuses must be stopped. our employees deserve better and this report is a good start.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are still trying to convince us, both right and left, that the free movement of posted workers and migrants would benefit everyone, and that is a blatant lie. ultraliberalism is not working, but we need more ultraliberalism. it is an implacable and absurd logic, an ideological choice that leads to lower wages and social collapse of workers, but which you systematically apply to the detriment of the rooting and the interest of peoples and nations. we reject the euro-globalist dogma. what you call, mr kanev, an increasingly flexible and dynamic labour market is nothing but a market of nomadic, interchangeable and disposable employees. the project we are pursuing is one of economic patriotism and localism. our project is not just about goods and services, but also about the freedom of men and women who must be able to choose to work in the healthy and stable environment of their country. this is the whole point of the alternative motion for a resolution tabled by our group, which places at the centre of its project the right of states to give priority to the employment of their own citizens.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. files at the italian or french border posts are long gone. employees who cross the border to work in another member state also benefit from these benefits. the same applies to my region, flanders, where there are more and more workers from other member states. they work in key sectors such as healthcare, agriculture and logistics. the current pandemic has made it even clearer to us how important these people are. without them we would not have a full health service and the flemish asparagus would be rotting in the fields. unfortunately, there are also downsides. the lack of people in our labour market cannot be solved by taking the brightest minds from other member states. this could undermine the social cohesion of the union. we need to solve the disparities in prosperity between regions by creating jobs where people have no prospects today. unfortunately, the fact that workers move to another member state is often abused to circumvent fundamental labour rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. as soon as a worker crosses the border, the fundamental rules of work are put on the line. it's got to be different. in europe, all workers have the right to good working conditions, a decent wage and full social protection. europe must therefore be much more active in ensuring that the rules are respected. only then can we achieve a social europe with fair jobs for all.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mr rapporteur, yes, i was treated like a slave. it's 2021 and this is stéphane speaking. stéphane is a romanian truck driver who worked for a company based in belgium and who must conclude that he did not receive the salary or the social and working conditions to which he should have been entitled. for many workers today, that is what europe is. companies that hire workers, for example in belgium, but with a romanian or polish contract to pay lower wages, sometimes below €300 per month. putting workers in competition, making the lowest wages the norm and avoiding social contributions is social dumping. we must end this and guarantee all workers the highest wages and the best working conditions, enforce the rules, put resources into inspections and controls, and stop with this austerity. we must now finally move from social dumping to social progress, and this requires a real break.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, each year, natural disasters force an average of 26 million people to migrate, three times the number of people displaced by wars and conflicts. political, social and economic instability resulting from climate change, sunken islands and pollution are now known factors for migration. by refusing to deport a bangladeshi national to his country of origin because of air pollution, the bordeaux court of appeal's decision will make history. prohibiting refoulement in the name of the fundamental right to life means guaranteeing humanitarian protection to anyone whose livelihood is being destroyed by climate change. the european parliament is about to join this position, if the right-wing conservatives do not empty our report of all its substance. humanitarian visas, temporary or long-term admissions, the definition of safe and regular migration channels, adaptation to climate change and protection of internally displaced persons in the countries concerned are all levers available to the european union to ensure this protection, without risking to reopen the geneva convention to recognize a new category of refugees. i thank you, madam rapporteur, for your work.
on behalf of the left group. - mr president, commissioner, we need more production capacity, stable supply chains, yes, that is true. but why are you today banning companies from producing, for example, the coronavirus vaccine? i'm thinking bavarian nordic in denmark or biolyse in canada. they want to make the vaccine, but they can't. they even have a deal with bolivia, i believe, for the sale. why would you do that? because of patents. and you say that the problem here for manufacturing is not the patents. yes, you did! it is true that we need raw materials, but these are also in the hands of a few monopolists who are restricting production. and so the central question today is actually: do we as a state, as a public authority, want to be more than a bank teller machine where the big corporation comes to take money, or do we say: no, we give grants and we don't really ask for anything in return. today, may we collectively say: look, we've been in a pandemic for a year. it's been a good run. now, as a corporation, you're all going to serve the public good. public health now takes precedence over your shareholders. - what ? that is the central question.
the pandemic has indeed shown us our vulnerability, and the answer is not protectionism, let alone colbertism, but open strategic autonomy, as you rightly stressed. but the eu must invest much more in our future prosperity. the budget for research and development, for technology, for infrastructure must be increased substantially. finally, with regard to the planned investments in the production of semiconductors and chips, i would point out that experts warn of the high entry thresholds and the very long investment cycle. here too, the eu must invest, focusing on research and development of semiconductors. there's our trump card.
madam president, commissioner, mr silva, i have listened to you attentively, but i wonder from one debate to another what is really changing. 667 dead, that's the number of people who have died this year in the mediterranean. where's the real outrage? how many more debates must we call for in parliament, how many more deaths, how many more families without news, how many more people without a funeral, how many more bodies in the mediterranean must we call for before our governments' policies change? claiming to fight against traffickers and trafficking, outsourcing the processing of our asylum applications to libya, raising walls and obstacles ever higher, undermining fundamental rights, refusing solidarity but also making welcome inhuman, preventing rescue operations at sea, believing that migration can and will stop, this is the ambition of the member states, with the ever more voluntary contribution of frontex and the european commission, resulting in a europe that is becoming a fortress with more and more deadly casualties every day. to be tough in the name of fighting this far right? on the contrary, it is by firmly defending the values that the far right expects that it can be pushed back. it is no longer his coming to power that we should fear, but the spread of his ideology of hatred and rejection of the other, if we continue on this path. the solutions are known: every day, civil society, ngos and associations are showing us the way, the radical change in the way of welcome and solidarity that the european union must take. the european union itself must set up rescue and search operations at sea. opening up legal and safe pathways to the continent is not just a matter of legal and rational choices, but also a matter of moral choices.
mr president, 701 people have died or gone missing in the mediterranean this year, according to the un. today, even animal rights are being promoted, and that is good. but what about the rights of those people of flesh and blood? the eu's non-policy is complicit in this. the smugglers know it and they profit from it. 701, that's almost six people a day. almost as many people as in this hemisphere. the eu is being played and is not making the right deals with the right countries. look at the spanish enclave of ceuta, where 5,000 migrants swam illegally or crossed the sea in inflatable boats. at eu level, there is no sign of a strategic or forceful migration policy. do something . take on the smugglers! show your teeth to partners who don't keep their promises! make new appointments! build stability where there is war! support member states to better guard their external borders! but don't put a new band-aid on the wound! it is the only way to prevent tragic deaths in the mediterranean.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean, the cradle of european civilization, has become a graveyard because of the selfishness and shortsightedness of some europeans. some, because europe is still too divided: what a shame! for me, it's a very simple principle: when a person is in danger of dying at sea, he must be saved. it's not like you're wearing locks or a naval block to rip someone off! yet, the real problem is not even rescue: the real knot is where you land after you save human beings. libya is not a safe place. there is a legal vacuum, a problem which, for the states with maritime frontiers, is aggravated by the increasingly absurd dublin rules, which must be overcome. stabilising libya and securing its southern borders remains the long-term priority. working with the states of origin to dismantle trafficking in human beings, including through the policy of cooperation, is now a must. managing economic migration together is urgent. but reactivating the 2019 malta accords and redistributing asylum seekers among states of good will is the only immediate solution. the commission must support with european funds accelerated asylum procedures, the return of those who are not entitled to it, and give funds to the countries of origin which cooperate in returns. let 's not waste any more time . we must not allow too many cheap demagogues to sell us stuff. let's take all our responsibilities. we are europeans: it's time to prove it.
mr president, in recent years we have been overwhelmed by illegal immigration. however, the coronavirus crisis has closed the borders again and migration rates have fallen dramatically. this has proved that a different migration policy is indeed possible. now that the borders are reopened, millions are once again poised on the shores of africa to illegally enter our homelands with the help of human smugglers and criminal ngos. we must not repeat the mistakes of the past. that is why we need a paradigm shift in migration policy, which, as in australia, must combine security, humanity and solidarity. anyone who enters europe illegally must lose any chance of staying. it's the only way to break the business model of human trafficking. asylum should no longer be abused as a channel for migration. by definition, reception must take place in the region of origin. instead of the disastrous policy of 'we are creating that', it is time for the policy of common sense.
mr president, i strongly believe it is high time to rethink our relationship and stop sending the wrong signals on both sides. our geographies, economies, people and security concerns, including terrorism and human trafficking, are simply too interconnected to be de-prioritised. we need a new approach which is based on an honest relationship, an open and transparent dialogue on how to deepen our key and strategic partnership. i understand that is counter-intuitive, but when you fight with your neighbour, an important way to solve the problem is also to sit down together, meet regularly and rebuild trust. two key issues in particular can improve our relationship. first, launching negotiations for the modernisation of the customs union without further delay would be a confidence-building process and a definite win-win scenario for both parties. second, visa regularisation. i also expect from the european parliament that the voice of the eu people will be heard and will support a visa-free regime for turkey.
mr president, i cannot believe my eyes. it is a matter of great concern to the turkish authorities, who are not prepared to accept the terms of the agreement. there are thousands of political prisoners, including pregnant women, people are being tortured, people are disappearing, 152 000 judges, teachers and journalists have been dismissed. the turks have been occupying part of our member state of cyprus with impunity for half a century. they're blackmailing us with a massive influx of refugees. and yet, today, turkey, the islamic turkey, is described here as a strategic partner in the geopolitical and economic spheres, and must also remain a member of nato. after the recent bombing of kurds and armenians, one would think that the euro-bonzes would realize that turkey is a warmonger and not a partner in creating a stable and secure climate in the eastern mediterranean. how naive can one be?
mr president, the european union is a project of peace, democracy and human rights without precedent in the history of mankind. this achievement was crowned with the nobel peace prize in 2012. turkey's withdrawal from the istanbul convention, the striking regressions in the rule of law and freedom of expression, the attempts to intimidate our member states with warships at the extremities of the european union, and so on, are realities which, in my opinion, clearly demonstrate that the current government of recep tayyip erdoğan does not share the fundamental values of our european union. it is time to stop the hypocrisy, it is time to focus on what can and must work better in the future and in the medium term, such as managing the migration and humanitarian crisis, and such as deepening the customs union that we share. however, to talk about an accession process when differences are growing would be a hypocritical attempt to make things better.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for your questions, recommendations and an interesting discussion on this report. the parliament’s concerns are the commission’s concerns. we have much progress to make in concluding an honest and profound dialogue with turkey, which will allow us to better define our shared interests. it is also clear that turkey should also define better the relations it wants to have with the eu and should act accordingly.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, let me first of all thank mr nacho sánchez amor, who has been my friend for a long time and who is kind enough to be my friend, for the quality and timeliness of his report. it is a very important report to inform us about our relationship with turkey and i am very grateful to you for the enormous effort you have put into this report. we have had a very intense debate today, as is customary whenever relations between the european union and turkey are discussed in the european parliament, a very rich debate, a very fruitful debate for that very reason. like the european parliament, the council shares a number of serious concerns, concerns about the recent developments in turkey which are well documented in the report presented and which have put turkey further and further away from european values and therefore further and further away from a productive dialogue with the european institutions, which is very worrying because turkey is a candidate country for european integration, as well as being a major neighbour of europe and a very important partner in europe in various areas of security, geostrategic and other nature. we have had more recently, in recent months and weeks, however, some positive developments: the discontinuance of hydrocarbon exploration activities in the territorial waters of member states of the european union or the suspension, cessation of acts and words which we considered provocative. these positive elements of the last few weeks should be used to see if we can build a positive agenda for relations with turkey. the construction of this positive agenda does not, of course, mean that the european union will not use all its instruments to defend its interests and to defend the interests of its member states. it is very important, finally, that we also maintain european unity in our relations with turkey. we also have the european parliament and the european council to help us do this. they are following these issues very closely and it is very possible that they will come back to them at their meeting in june.
this conversation is over. the amendments are voted on today. the final vote will be taken on wednesday. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. before the second world war, relations between estonia and turkey were special. at a time when turkey had only 20 missions abroad, one of them was in tallinn. turkey never recognized the forcible incorporation of estonia, latvia and lithuania into the soviet union. turkey is an important partner of estonia in nato. turkish planes have secured our airspace. turkish society is european. turkey is a country of strategic importance in political, economic and foreign policy terms. the european union has cooperated effectively with turkey in the migration crisis. turkey, like any sovereign state, pursues its own interests and aims, but must of course respect fundamental human rights and democratic values. the eu wants good relations with turkey. unfortunately, these relations are now at an all-time low. the merger process is in place. to improve relations, both parties must use respectful language. the opposite approach is only beneficial to those who seek to divide turkey and the eu.
in writing. – i have supported the ep report on turkey since it provides critical yet fair overview and vision for the future. this is the strongest ep position on our relations on turkey ever adopted by the european parliament. the accession negotiations between the eu and turkey are in serious danger as long as turkey refuses to carry out reforms and undermines the rule of law, human rights and media freedom. unfortunately, currently, it is the case; therefore, the accession talks with turkey must be formally suspended. this should allow for the eu and turkey to review the current relations and to explore possible new models for future relations. also the question of visa liberalisation for turkish citizens and the modernisation of the customs union must be linked to democratic progress, human rights and fundamental freedoms in turkey. meanwhile we should still keep in mind that turkey is a member of nato and there is a lot of room for successful cooperation.
in writing. i do not understand the continuation of the current accession negotiations with turkey led by the erdoğan government. turkey no longer meets the conditions of democracy, the rule of law and convergence towards european standards that are implied by its status as a candidate country for eu membership. worse still, turkey has been moving further and further away from this in recent years. the time is not now to commit ourselves to offering turkey some advantage such as the modernisation of the customs union. today's vote on a possible suspension of the accession negotiations is only a first step. the commission and the high representative are to recommend this suspension as early as the june european council if no significant progress is made. finally, if the situation does not change by the end of 2021, i believe that the accession negotiations will have to be definitively stopped and wider sanctions, including in the context of the customs union, will have to be developed. we can't let mr. erdoğan play games with us anymore!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europeanism and atlanticism: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the european union must therefore, starting from this house, which represents its citizens, give a clear answer for peace and democracy against terrorism and hatred. the middle east is the geographical boundary of the west: israel is the democratic frontier. but this house seems to forget this too often, just as it seems to forget that peace and democracy are one and the same, that there can be no two peoples and two states without respect for the elementary rudiments of the rule of law. we have turned the other way, ladies and gentlemen, in these years, when terrorist groups have cornered the palestinian ruling class, which had been the protagonist of a season of dialogue, and we have adopted a policy of permissiveness and acceptance towards illiberal regimes and democracies, which has resulted in the isolation of israel and those who opposed hamas in the gaza strip. let's turn this around! we are the institutions, we are the policy, we are europe: we can't just sit here and do nothing!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when israel and gaza are once again on fire, we europeans must continue to pursue a peace based on two states, ensuring security and prosperity for palestinians and israelis. we europeans, at a time when israeli families are living under the fire of missiles targeting urban centres, are not fooled by the logic of terror, since we call hamas and islamic jihad terrorist organisations. we europeans must denounce the perverse dilemma in which hamas is locking israel in by placing command centres, weapons caches and missile launchers in palestinian living quarters - schools, hospitals, mosques and other civilian buildings - thus exposing the palestinian population to the tragic retaliation of israel. but we europeans must also keep our eyes on the hope that the new regional situation and the political and social developments in the arab minority in israel are giving rise to and that some on both sides would like to stifle. in the face of the shockwaves of terrorism, which are also hitting our continent, let us strengthen all peace initiatives between israelis and palestinians.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this debate. in the meantime, the extraordinary meeting of foreign ministers called by the high representative and vice-president of the commission, josep borrell, has come to an end. he has also just communicated, through the press conference, the broad majority view expressed by the member states at that meeting. let me try to sum up the debate in my view on four essential points. the first is a very strong condemnation of the escalation of violence that has been witnessed in recent days in israel and the gaza strip, the lament for the countless civilian casualties, including countless children on both sides of the conflict, and the consequent call for an immediate ceasefire, an immediate cessation of hostilities so that the political process can prevail over violence and military confrontation. the second point is an unequivocal condemnation, without any ambiguity, of the launching of rockets by the terrorist organization, in our entirely legitimate classification, the launching of rockets, i said, by the terrorist organization hamas on civilian populations residing in israel, and the consideration, the support for israel's right to defend itself, to defend its territory, to defend its populations, a right to defend itself exercised in a proportionate manner and in compliance with international humanitarian law. that's how the right of defence should be exercised. we therefore call on israel, in exercising its right to self-defence, to act in a proportionate manner and in accordance with international humanitarian law. the third point is the relative point that we should not forget the reasons for the social and urban violence that broke out earlier in east jerusalem. this conflict must not be ignored and we must also be firm in condemning the forced displacement of palestinian families living in one of the neighbourhoods of east jerusalem and we must also be firm in our defence of the status quo with regard to the holy sites, with regard to al-haram al-sharif, or the temple mount, and in defence of the freedom of worship of all the religions represented there. finally, a fourth point, which means a call for a return to the political process, for the relaunching of the peace process, because only the peace process can guarantee a lasting and stable solution for the region, based on two independent states living peacefully side by side, and the defence of the european union's commitment to this political process, a european union in which anti-semitism cannot have any kind of place.
this important discussion is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. if any other country had used half a quarter of the violence israel uses, the majority of this parliament - from the greens to the right - would have already voted an endless series of resolutions and calls for sanctions. but today parliament is not presenting a resolution. the european commission is cautiously calling for an end to a 'cycle of violence'. let's put the words first. this is not a 'cycle of violence' but an 'aggressive colonization'. for decades, israel has been illegally colonizing palestine, driving palestinians from their homes, and blatantly violating a raft of un resolutions. and ask yourself the question. how would you react if you were driven out of your homes with an army, as in east jerusalem today? would you say a little "amen" or would you resist? this is what has been happening for decades: a colonial state facing the resistance of the palestinian people. this time, israeli bombs killed more than 200 palestinians. more than 60 children. but you not only do not take any sanctions, israel is even an associated state of the european union by the association agreement. the european union associated with apartheid. and most importantly, no punishment. i didn't say anything. what a shame.
president, commissioner, the end of the pandemic tunnel is gradually approaching and our vaccination campaigns are beginning to bear fruit. the prospect of a post-corona world is coming closer, and i am therefore very pleased that we can vote today on the reinforced solidarity corps, which is of symbolic importance. our young people have shown a great deal of solidarity over the past year. they are generally less vulnerable to the virus, but they have sacrificed a lot to protect their most vulnerable fellow human beings. the crisis has shown more than ever the importance of solidarity, not only between countries but also between citizens. the success of the current vaccination campaigns is due in part to the many volunteers who have worked on them. the solidarity corps is therefore much more than a european fund. it offers 300 000 young people across europe the opportunity to volunteer in another country, learning another language, learning a new culture and showing solidarity. after many frustrating months of social isolation, they finally have the prospect of spreading their wings. european solidarity is the foundation on which the european union is built and on which we must build in the coming years with initiatives of this kind.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more than ever we are unequal in the face of death. at present, hundreds of millions of people are still denied a vaccine that could save their lives, simply because they were born in the wrong place. the european union is of course not responsible for managing the health crisis outside its borders. while it can be proud to export 50% of its vaccine production, it would be shocking and undignified to see it continue to block internationally the suspension of patents on covid-19 vaccines, a measure that would allow for rapidly increasing production. if it were to put the right to profit above humanitarian law, in order to preserve the profit margins of big pharma rather than human life, the european union would be denying its values, starting with the protection and respect of human dignity. the pharmaceutical industry does not need our help, however, because it is in a very bad financial state. so pfizer, johnson & johnson and astrazeneca spent $26 billion on dividend payments and share buybacks last year alone. it is time for europe to see vaccines as a global commons, the quantity of which is available and the prices of which cannot be left to the discretion of three or four pharmaceutical groups. i have already heard some people say that the removal of patents on vaccines would be useless because poor countries would not be able to produce the doses. first of all, let me remind you that some european laboratories went from zero capacity to producing several million doses per week in just a few months. and then, all over the world, pharmaceutical companies exist and announce the ability to produce vaccines, but are denied a license to produce by the big labs. others go so far as to claim that patent suspension would threaten the private sector's ability to innovate in the future. this is a relief when you know that public research and public funding are largely behind the most effective covid-19 vaccines. once again, the profits would be privatised, while a substantial part of the costs was borne by the community. the suspension of patents is only part of the solution. it must be accompanied by a transfer of technology and know-how. if big pharma refuses to share their knowledge on a voluntary basis, the european commission will have to make a decision to force them to do so. continuing to deny other countries access to the tools to fight covid-19 would not only be a moral failure, it would also be a serious policy mistake. the longer we delay immunizing people in developing countries, the greater the risk of new variants emerging against which current vaccines would be ineffective. so our leaders must choose between winning the support of shareholders or the support of citizens, between short-term profit and global public health. it is in these choices of society that the real nature of the european project will be revealed.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). competitive research enables us to develop well-functioning and effective vaccines at a rapid pace, and to develop vaccines that hold great promise for the future. intellectual property is the fruit of years of intensive research and costly effort and creates tens of thousands of jobs, many of them in research and development. there is no evidence that the abolition of patents will lead to faster, higher production and a higher vaccination rate. the production of vaccines is a highly complex matter. the production and quality control alone would take so much time that no more lighting could be brought in 2021. the solution lies in dramatically increasing our production. this year's production alone, of 10 to 11 billion doses, would be sufficient in this regard, but optimists expect even surpluses in 2022. in the west, more than ten doses per adult have been ordered. nevertheless, the eu is the only one that exports vaccines. the large quantities of production will have to be exported to developing countries at cost or free of charge. of course, these must be licensed and the existing rules on compulsory licensing may be invoked where appropriate. however, this does not mean that the vaccines have been administered. i therefore call on the council and the commission to make arrangements with the western countries as soon as possible, not only to export surplus vaccines to developing countries as soon as possible, but also to provide large-scale human and logistical support for the administration of the vaccines in countries which do not have the necessary resources themselves.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i want to say without any further ado: release the patents! it's not just the five star movement that i represent that is asking for it, but the whole world: president biden, the pope, the who, but most of all, the majority of european citizens. she says it 's complicated . of course it is! but complexity is addressed, not avoided, especially when lives are at stake. only 9 percent of the world's population has been vaccinated, 1 percent in poor countries. every day we delay is a gift to the virus, an opportunity to create variants that can turn back the clock to march 2020 and start us all over again. because one thing must be clear: if the world doesn't get out, neither will we. and so you just pretend to protect innovation, when really you're just protecting shareholders and dividends. big pharma has received tens of billions of dollars from the public for research, and we've paid for these vaccines twice: first to develop them, then to buy them before we even knew if they worked. zero risk and guaranteed profit for big pharma, while we've suffered secret contracts, delays and cuts. so i say vaccines are a public good: they belong to the human race, they belong to all of us. and if we want to get out of this nightmare, we have to vaccinate the whole world, force manufacturers to stop making money off the pandemic. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. does he mean that he cannot force some multinational corporation not to speculate on life? we 're releasing the patents on the vaccine and the machinery to produce it immediately: let's release them now!
mr president, two types of vaccines have been developed against covid: one, traditional, and the other, based on a new technology that could change the treatment with which many diseases are fought today, including some cancers, known as messenger rna, and which is european. in the second case, the patent would also expropriate a long research work and the key to all future applications. the companies that have developed messenger rna technology in europe are small and have been in the industry for less than 20 years. if they are now forced to share their work with chinese, indian or russian pharmaceutical companies, for example, not only will their work be ruined, but also the european leadership in one of the few fields in which we still maintain it. and the countries that need them the most will still not manufacture vaccines. they're getting shot, not patents. the shortage of vaccines is not caused by patents, but by insufficient production. we are facing an international humanitarian emergency. we are therefore encouraging agreements between companies to increase the number of vaccines they produce, but when it comes to something as strategic as public health, we are protecting our researchers from the ambitions of russia or china, which, by the way, will never share their advances. let's make vaccines for everyone, but let's not risk not knowing who makes ours.
it is high time that europe gave its immediate and clear support to the withdrawal of the trips agreement. the whole world is watching, and the united states and hundreds of other countries have already gone before us. commission president von der leyen wanted to make vaccines a global collective good. instead, a 'europeans and big pharma first' mentality has developed, while in the rest of the world people are still dying en masse. commissioner dombrovskis, it is high time that the commission's promise was honoured. to take a life-saving stand and no longer blindly play the big pharma lobby card. the best way to ensure that the whole world is vaccinated as soon as possible is to suspend patents. without this much-needed international approach, the variants of the virus are allowed to run wild and no one is safe. this of course means that we also have to share our knowledge and technology. that is not an unreasonable demand on the big pharmaceutical companies, since the vaccines are largely pre-financed by our tax dollars. support the immediate withdrawal of the trips agreement and make history.
mr president, there are nearly ten thousand deaths a day because there are not enough vaccines. when the european left warned of this a year ago, we stood alone and were looked down upon by the european commission. however, thanks to our campaign and pressure from below, this issue is now at the top of the agenda of the european parliament. we urgently need more vaccines, but production is limited by patents. these patents give one or a few companies the exclusive right to produce vaccines, creating a monopoly. the companies then decide how much or how little they want to produce: billions in profits for them, vaccine shortages for us. it is said that patents are not the problem and that the abolition of patents will hinder innovation. however, modern mrna vaccines have been developed at universities, and pharmaceutical companies have received billions in government subsidies. innovation is a collective success. pharmaceutical companies are raking in billions in patent profits while people are losing their lives because there are not enough vaccines. take those patents away.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is something moving on the european level. i thank you very much for the three points, and i think, mr minister, that you will also be discussing with the trade ministers tomorrow how we can increase the supply of vaccines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need the chains. but one thing that really moves me is that you said we need more voluntary licences. but that's not gonna happen. i spoke to the ambassador of bangladesh yesterday. they are ready to produce, but they cannot because they need technology and licenses. i wonder whether it would not be sensible to include in the contracts we are now concluding - 1.8 billion doses, which are economically attractive for companies - a clause, a binding partnership with a production facility in a developing country, so that production can finally be increased there. why don't you do that?
madam president, thanks to vaccines after a year of covid we are starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel, but we are not there yet. ‘no one is safe until everyone is safe’ has rightly become our mantra. new mutations are a risk and global vaccination rates are too slow. we must boost global vaccination urgently. but is waiving intellectual property rights the silver bullet? i fear that the sole focus on ip waivers is possibly a red herring and preventing discussion on more effective solutions, such as seeking ways to incentivise and coordinate scaling of vaccine manufacturing capacity. focus instead on global cooperation and fact-based solutions. but what is crystal clear, the eu has shown solidarity. we are a lead contributor to covax. we must continue to lead our efforts globally, and i expect our allies to step up their efforts too. (applause)
madam president, vaccination is fortunately progressing at a good pace in europe, but unfortunately we cannot say the same from outside: only 0.3% of the doses have reached the 29 poorest countries in the world, and the covax mechanism will only cover the needs of 20% of the poorest countries. the commission is right to propose today that we remove barriers to trade, expand production, promote compulsory licences, etc. this is a good road map, but it is not enough: we must support the suspension of patents in the wto. let me give you an example: bolivia just reached an agreement with the canadian pharmaceutical company biolyse for the mass manufacturing of generic johnson & johnson vaccines, which could already be in production, but can't be done because of the patent, and that's one of the reasons why we need to suspend them; and it's not to say that that's going to curb the incentives for research when pfizer, astrazeneca and johnson & johnson have allotted 26 billion dollars in dividends and share buybacks in 2020. please, council, commission, let us support the us initiative in the wto.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. doing nothing kills. every day, 10,000 people die from covid-19, and during our debate here today, that's about 800. that's why we need to make decisions now. for months now, over 100 wto members, including us president biden, have been calling for the temporary suspension of patents. why do you think that is? let's listen to him and act. the new wto secretary-general stressed just now at the italian g20 presidency that even the existing production capacities in the global south cannot be exhausted because patent protection is in the way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the time argument you and the right wing of the house use to refer to the long-term build-up of production capacity is not one, because the time factor is also present in the virus and has the mutations on its side. let's work and act!
president, commissioner, minister, much has been said and written about vaccines and patents, but one thing is clear: we need as many vaccines as possible as soon as possible. we must focus on scaling up production, urgently ending the export restrictions imposed by the united states and the united kingdom and ensuring that companies exchange knowledge and technology. it's an endless story, and i don't trust that this will happen voluntarily. that is why i am in favour of the temporary abolition of patents within the wto as part of the solution. a year ago, they said it was too soon. now, some would say, it's too late to make any difference. that kite's not going to take off. i am certainly not opposed to patents and intellectual property per se. patents play an important role in the field of innovation. but we must not forget that these vaccines have been developed thanks to the financial support of europe, of the governments and of society. as my own christian-democratic party chairman, joachim coens, has said, exceptional circumstances call for exceptional measures. the spirits are steadily maturing. it may be because of my naughty nature, but i also think the commissioner's speech has a little opening. let's be as visionary as jonas salk, who developed the polio vaccine. we can and must make a difference now, especially for the poor countries.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tereos sugar factory in northern france has caused a major ecological disaster by breaking a dam in the decantation basin, causing enormous pollution of the river eixample. for fauna and flora, it will take at least three years for a return to normal. however, establishing liability and obtaining compensation, if any, will take much longer. another company, clarebout in wallonia, which offers the world famous belgian frozen, industrial, pesticide-laden fries, has a poor environmental record. these are two examples in my own region of picardy wallonia, among many others, which have dramatic consequences for nature, biodiversity and the lives of the inhabitants and workers concerned. our report aims to take environmental crime more into account, to strengthen legal instruments to combat such crimes, including criminal liability, and to ensure access to justice and reparation for ecosystems and human victims of crimes that have become almost as lucrative as drug trafficking, and therefore cannot enjoy any impunity. in this report, we call in particular for the 2004 and 2008 directives on environmental liability and environmental crime to be revised, for ecocide to be included in european law, i.e. the recognition of crimes against ecosystems, for the mandate of the european public prosecutor's office to be extended to environmental crimes, and for victims to have better access to justice, in line with the modernisation of the aarhus regulation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there is a charade happening with some in this parliament, a charade that could cost jobs across the eu. i strongly believe in the highest standards of data protection. our citizens deserve to know their data is being treated correctly and lawfully when it leaves the eu, but that is exactly what the united kingdom is doing. it has fully implemented the gdpr and has committed to maintaining it in words and spirit. the european commission has confirmed that the uk meets the adequacy criteria, yet still some in this parliament object. we already have adequacy agreements with argentina, uruguay, israel, japan and more. are we honestly saying that these countries have better data protection standards than the uk, which helped create the eu’s current standards? the british may sometimes appear irritating to the left, but honestly, they are not dangerous. the only conclusion i can draw here is that this is payback, but it’s time to leave the past and brexit where it belongs. after a divorce, people should be able to share a meal together. let’s start shaping a constructive and fruitful relationship with an important strategic ally. by punishing the uk, you are harming the eu too. haven’t our businesses already suffered enough in this past year? businesses and consumers need certainty. therefore, the ppe and ecr have tabled a better alternative. please support it.
author. mr president, the death of the late president idriss déby immediately marks a period of greater instability for chad. he has had a fragmented record in the field of human rights. there's no way around that. but he also fiercely opposed the advancing jihadism in the flammable sahel region. now that his son has taken power and brutally put down peaceful protests, free and fair elections must be held as soon as possible in the presence of international observers. the eu must continue to support chad in the fight against jihadism in the sahel region, in the fight against radical islam. but let me be clear, the country must not renounce democratic values and human rights. we must not allow the sahel to become a flashpoint, because its sparks will soon be able to spread to europe. that is why we must invest more in policies in the sahel countries and pay more attention to this region, in order to eliminate the recruiting ground for jihadists.
mr president, in large member states the retail sector is increasingly selling only products from its own country. for example, flemish smes are forced to move production to france. this is unacceptable, it is protectionism which is destroying our crown jewel, the single market. i repeat my request to the commission to take action against this. i also call for a much, much stronger policy of support for our smes. the single capital and digital market must be established as soon as possible, and more support for our smes to participate in research programmes and to protect their intellectual property rights. finally, each free trade agreement should include a sme chapter which is monitored and enforced.
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ipbes, which is the ipcc equivalent of biodiversity, is sounding the alarm: up to 827,000 viruses found in nature such as covid-19 could impact humans. the current economic impact of pandemics is 100 times greater than the estimated cost of preventing them. limiting the factors that cause the emergence and spread of zoonoses, such as deforestation and intensive agriculture, is therefore imperative. we must dare to change course to avoid entering a period of chronic lockdown due to pandemics, and recognize that human health is intrinsically linked to the health of nature. thank you, mr luena, rapporteur for the 'biodiversity' strategy, for including the recommendations in my opinion, which focus on the interactions between international trade and biodiversity, as no less than one third of species are threatened with extinction because of international trade. the levers are there: respect for biodiversity in trade agreements through prior impact assessments and sanctions for non-compliance, the fight against illegal wildlife trade and a moratorium on all imports of animal species from countries at risk, the elimination of investments harmful to the environment, the recognition and punishment of ecocides. we call on the european commission to implement these recommendations to ensure policy coherence on the international stage and to position europe as a leader by the time of the world biodiversity summit in october.
mr president, we must be able to travel freely and safely and we must restart tourism and the economy. free movement is one of the fundamental freedoms on which this european union is built and which has been badly compromised by the pandemic. we all crave freedom, and the urge to travel is strong. but the tourist sector and many businesses also need a strong boost. i am pleased that the eu digital covid certificate has become a clear measure, with much-needed attention also paid to the privacy concerns of eu citizens. a step in the right direction towards a carefree summer. it is now the responsibility of all eu institutions and member states to provide citizens with sufficient information on what the eu digital covid certificate does and does not do. let us hope that this system will soon be obsolete.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not attempt to refute the thesis that the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy is engaged in supporting dictatorships around the world, and in particular the cuban one. it's such a ridiculous thing that it's not worth answering. it is another thing that the official position of the european union and its member states, not just mine, is to be against the us blockade of cuba. no, i am not saying this because i am a dangerous castroist, it is because this is the official position of the european union, which is defended every year in the united nations security council. see if any of you guys find out at once. and that being against the extraterritorial sanctions of the united states is also our official position. we are against extraterritorial sanctions: those applied in cuba and those applied elsewhere. because we consider that they are harmful to the interests, in particular, of our companies. so please, please, please, put your feet on the ground. we are against the blockade and we say this every year in the un security council, and we have said, both actively and passively, that we do not agree with the extraterritorial sanctions of the united states. does that make me a supporter of a dictatorship? why in the world does that make me a supporter of a dictatorship? that cuba is not a democratic, liberal, multi-party system, as we have here, i guess you don't find out today, right? do you want me to list all the countries in the world that are not countries where we practice a liberal, multiparty, competitive democracy, like we do in europe? you want me to make you a list? why is it that for some strange reason, only you guys talk about cuba? why don't they just pick any one of those countries at random and raise it too? i have a feeling there's a certain concentration of your concerns. does this mean i'm not worried? of course i worry. as much as i'm concerned about the situation in other countries that are not liberal multiparty democracies like we are. now, there are things i can't admit. because they're very specific things. like the accusation that the money from european cooperation with cuba is going to fund organizations of the cuban regime. look, the amount of aid we are lending to civil society organizations in cuba is, at the moment, 8.4 million euros. of this 8.4 million euros, 7.6 million are managed by civil society organizations of the european union, which, by definition, i say is not part of the cuban government, and 0.8 million by cuban civil society organizations. here are the data. and these organizations have been carefully selected by our delegation there, taking into account that they are organizations whose members serve the general interest and that they have a democratic functioning and play a verified role of mediators between the authorities and the citizens. so this accusation that we take european taxpayers' money and just send it by registered mail to the cuban government is completely unfounded. we may disagree on many things, but facts are facts. and the fact is that i do not sincerely believe that anyone can say that under the previous system of political relations between the european union and cuba things were better than under this one. frankly, i do not think that by returning to the system of incommunicado, which was adopted by the european union at the request of another spanish government, we would be better off and more able to influence, contact cuba, its civil society and its government. and so, no, i don't think we have to abandon the current system. we can perfect it and we can apply it better. everything is improvable. but to return to the old system, frankly, i do not think it would improve the situation in cuba at all, or our ability to influence it. and so we will continue to develop the implementation of this agreement, which has - you are right, you are right about that - been in place for almost four years, which was approved in november almost four years ago. but to leave it and go back to what we had before, honestly, i don't think it would do anything, that it would improve anyone's situation. of our relationship with cuba and its people, certainly not.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 june 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the right-wing forces in the european parliament have put this resolution on cuba on the agenda. to discuss human rights on the caribbean island, they say. - you did ? this same right which refused in all languages to condemn israel, or even to approve a resolution on the matter. i don't believe in that. so what's really bothering them in cuba? could it be cuba's achievements in education, housing and health? this small island, under us blockade, has even developed its own covid vaccine and sent solidarity brigades to europe to help italian hospitals! it has highlighted the failure of the neoliberal model, so dear to the traditional parties. if the european right really cared about the human rights of cubans, it would deal with the root cause of the violation of their rights: the illegal blockade imposed by the united states, repeatedly condemned by the un, which is suffocating the cuban economy. rather than blindly following the us, this parliament would do much better to respect and develop the agreement on cooperation and political dialogue between cuba and the eu. the people on both sides of the atlantic would benefit.
mr president, the european social fund plus must be used to promote employment opportunities that create prosperity in the member states and to help solve this very critical situation in which so many families find themselves. however, we must regret that this fund, which comes from european taxpayers, is used for purposes not always provided for in the treaties and therefore without a legal basis. this is the case of the imposition of gender ideology, not only because of the obsession to integrate this perspective at a cross-sectional level in all legislation, but also because it wants to intrude on the education of our children. moreover, it allocates more than 25% of the funds to immigrants, without distinguishing between legal and illegal immigration. the same applies to items intended for ambiguous concepts such as international organisations, philanthropic actors, third states or civil society. they define who they are, what their goals are and why they do it. it is clear that this lack of definition can conceal arbitrary allocations which are not always geared to the common good. the social fund must be able to achieve the objectives for which it was designed: to promote employment and to ensure a good standard of living for european citizens. you should see to it.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the coronavirus pandemic has brought us into a very different reality. it was also a challenge to complete the negotiations efficiently and quickly. the first thing to consider was how to adapt the fund to the new socioeconomic reality. i think the negotiators have done a very good job. first of all, i am pleased that investment in the young generation has been identified as one of the top priorities and that a minimum of 12.5% has been set aside for this purpose in countries where the proportion of people not in education or training is unfortunately higher than the eu average. the previous crisis in 2008 showed that young people are particularly vulnerable to economic shocks. at the same time, i am pleased that other important priorities have not been abandoned, namely, the child guarantee, in which i have great hope, and social innovation, which will be our capital for building a society more resilient to future crises.
mr president, commissioner, today is an important day for our social europe. now that the coronavirus numbers are finally heading in the right direction, we need to shift our focus to how to approach the post-pandemic era. it is clear that the most vulnerable have been hit hardest by this crisis. to respond to this we need a strong european social fund and today we are voting on a strengthened esf which will focus on the most vulnerable: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of europe. the budget for social inclusion is increased by 25 percent and 5 percent of the total budget is allocated to combating child poverty. the esf will also play a key role in the implementation of the european pillar action plan. the esf is the fund that is closest to the people, that makes europe more tangible and that has a direct impact on europeans. if we want to make europe an attractive lady again, the only way to do that is to make europe more social.
the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. good things have happened in a short period of time with the biden administration. i'm thinking of the truce in the tariff war. i hope that an agreement will also be reached, commissioner. but i am also thinking of the agreement in principle within the g7 on a global minimum corporate tax, an agreement which i welcome, but the modalities will be extremely important. let us use this period to develop a new dynamic as equals and as equals. first of all, by restoring multilateralism with the rescue and reform of the world trade organization. secondly, our economies, which are collectively the largest in the world, must use this to set the global standard. but there is also work to be done bilaterally. firstly, the establishment of the council for trade and technology for joint agreements. secondly, to develop a china strategy with the us. and thirdly, to participate in the summit of democratic countries. i hope that this parliament will establish institutional cooperation with the congress.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. social europe means family, job creation and innovation in hungarian. hungary has established a work-based society based on full employment and family allowances of 5% of gdp. we believe in giving people decent work and decent livelihoods. so the hungarian government raised employment to a record high and brought unemployment down from 12 percent to nearly 3 percent, while doubling the minimum wage. we've cut personal income tax to 15 percent, corporate tax to 9 percent. we have put the tax system at the service of family policy and childbearing, introduced family tax relief, exempted people under 25 from personal income tax next year, and exempted mothers with four children. so this is the hungarian model. strong social policies, ambitious tax cuts, support for families, which can create full employment.
president, commissioner, minister, first of all i would like to thank the portuguese presidency for the attention it has paid to the social field. the porto declaration is an important step in the right direction, but i am not ambitious enough in terms of poverty reduction. at present, the number of european children living in poverty is estimated at 19 million. the objective of lifting 15 million europeans out of poverty by 2030, including 5 million children, was much more ambitious in my view. if we want the porto summit to go down in history as a milestone towards a more social europe, we must now turn this social commitment into concrete action. it is therefore crucial that this concrete roadmap focuses on two things: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the objectives of the european semester through the new and existing criteria, the social indicators. most social objectives are national or regional in scope, and therefore the porto commitment is a fight that we must all fight together - europe, the member states, regional and local authorities, but also the social partners, and in cooperation with civil society.
on behalf of the group of the european right president, go back to the kitchen!, you don't know what you're talking about, bitch!, fuck you, next time you can blow erdogan! these are just some of the hundreds of reactions and insults i received after speaking to commission president von der leyen about the sofagate in turkey. it was amazing. it still scares me every time. messages like that cut through your soul. it's not really a problem until it's common. 82% of female meps have experienced some form of psychological violence. 44% are threatened with death, rape, assault or kidnapping. these figures are not only mind-boggling, but they also perfectly reflect the reality of what women in politics face every day. as long as this online harassment of female politicians continues, it is more likely that it will also deter other women from entering politics. so we need a new strategy to respond to online violence without falling into censorship. i hope that we can create a safer, more transparent, more equal environment for the next generation of women who will enter politics, for our daughters. the commission should take initiatives in the area of online violence against women. because the many strong politicians, many of whom sit in this parliament, deserve a safe and hopeful working environment.
mr president, we have a problem, a big problem especially affecting publicly—exposed women, among them women in politics. that problem is hate and power structures, and is perpetuated online. far too many women are threatened, every second, online – mostly by men and mostly simply because they are women. the reason lies in the fundamental question of power and felt superiority. some men think that women should not be allowed to have a voice in the public discourse, and too often their hate and threats actually silence women. this has to stop. we owe it to jo cox. we need better rules against online harassment and we need more effective reactions by the companies providing these services. we need this now because we have a very urgent problem which, in the end, is attacking our democracies. (applause)
president, commissioner, one in three women in the eu is facing some form of violence and the lockdown measures during covid have only made this situation worse. unfortunately, we're also seeing this alarming trend online. cyber violence, online bullying and hateful behaviour towards women and girls are on the rise. a study by the parliament estimates the cost of cyber violence against women at more than €50 billion a year in the eu. not only does this cost a lot of money, it also reduces the participation of women in public debate, which weakens our democracy. moreover, the silencing effect is being used by some as a deliberate tactic against female politicians, journalists and activists. the barrel is really full. we must make the fight against gender-based violence in all its forms a real policy priority. that is why not only must all member states finally ratify the istanbul convention, why we must not only add gender-based violence to the list of serious crimes in article 83 of the convention, but also take strong action against this form of gender-based online violence. now is the time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. the european union must take the lead in protecting animals, but not at the expense of people. we cannot make regulations that will destroy our farmers and make people's daily food more expensive. we all remember what happened in 2012 when we mandated the so-called enhanced cages. then a series of family farms and businesses went bankrupt, and there was a very severe increase in food prices. just one example, the price of eggs went up 33% in one year. of course, a complete ban on cages would have even more serious consequences. and how reasonable is it to put our own farmers at such a competitive disadvantage, since the same strict rules would not apply to foreign farmers. wto rules do not allow that. animal welfare is important to all of us, but we can only achieve this by making rules that do not endanger the livelihoods of european farmers and the food supply of the people who live here.
madam president, i am very pleased that the european parliament is echoing the european citizens' initiative 'for a new era without cages'. our vote, ladies and gentlemen, is the answer to their request. the answer is quite simple: we must ban cage-breeding throughout europe as soon as possible. and on this symbolic day, we could almost sing in unison the mythical french song "open, open the cage to the birds" by pierre perret, songwriter-performer. but to open cages quickly and efficiently, we need serious scientific impact studies as soon as possible to make this transition as smooth as possible. farmers and livestock farmers will also need to be supported and accompanied by, inter alia, incentive measures. the phasing out of cage use should be based on a species-based approach, which takes into account the characteristics of the individual animals. finally, all products of animal origin imported into the union should be produced under the same rules to avoid unfair competition to the detriment of our european farmers and in the interests of animal welfare, which implies a change in the wto rules.
madam president, this clearly shows us that our animals are sentient beings. they feel pain, they feel joy, they show sadness and they show happiness. acknowledging this, our society clearly needs to move forward into the 21st century by treating animals in a friendly way, granting them adequate space and living conditions. we have to reject claims that cages can be of use for animal welfare. let me take the example of sows that was mentioned by colleagues. if we grant sows with piglets enough space in our stables, there is no need at all to cage sows. ending industrial animal fattening also reduces the risks for us humans of newly occurring zoonosis and the spread of multi—resistant bacteria. so it’s not just about the animals, it’s also about human health. let’s end the cage age.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all, like our european farmers, defenders of animal welfare and we all agree that we must move towards a constant improvement of welfare on our farms. so while i welcome the adoption of this resolution, i would like to admit that it also raises some concerns. we ask our farmers to ensure our food self-sufficiency, to provide us with healthy and quality food and to produce in a more sustainable and animal welfare-friendly way. they are already fully committed to this and have already made a great deal of progress in their practices. however, we must be careful not to impose too many constraints too quickly. but some in this house do not hear that voice and even propose to ban practices specific to certain of our sectors, which carry traditions representative of our regions. i am referring here to the gavage, which enables our french foie gras sector to perpetuate a gastronomic tradition specific to our regions. this proposal, which has been tabled in a plenary amendment, is outside the scope of the resolution we are voting on today. unfortunately, it is representative of the agribashing that our farmers are suffering. so i hope we can reject it completely.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the citizens' initiative 'end the cage age' has brought together 1.4 million people in the union. there is therefore strong public support for the abolition of animal cages in agriculture. the decency of our society is determined by how well we treat the most defenseless. article 13 of the treaty describes animals as sentient beings. no animal should be subjected to torture under the care of a human. that is why the abolition of caging in farming is so important and must be done quickly. i ask the commission to speed up the review of eu animal welfare legislation and to incorporate parliament's demands in the context of the review of the directive on the protection of animals used for animal production. the cruelty to animals in the eu must end, and the abolition of caged animals is a step towards recovering our humanity too. large-scale industrial farming is a thing of the past and must be scrapped in favour of small-scale, organic and animal-friendly farming.
madam president, i would first like to thank all the poultry farmers in europe who did not wait for this resolution to take action to give priority to animal welfare. i am thinking in particular of rural poultry farmers, all those who in recent years have given this freedom to all poultry and also contributed to the building of animal welfare in europe. however, there are still poultry in some countries that have to live on surfaces that are amazing to say the least. i'll show you the area on the screen. some birds live for a few dozen days, no more, on this area that i'm showing on the screen. this is clearly not acceptable. we must be able to make this transition quickly, with this objective by 2027, not only for all farmers and producers in europe, by supporting farmers and producers in their investments to transform this and bring the necessary, indispensable animal welfare, but also - and i very much insist - to ask the commission, beyond this support for the agricultural world, to have the same standards at our borders, thus prohibiting imports, which today represent almost 500 000 tonnes per year of poultry from brazil, thailand, etc., which do not respect animal welfare at all. so we must act in two ways: support farmers and herders and ban imports that do not respect animal welfare. this is a good cause for the european union as a whole.
president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, the european union must pursue a comprehensive migration policy to protect its citizens, to maintain schengen and the free movement of persons. we must not allow ourselves to be blackmailed by countries which want to use mass migration flows to put pressure on us. we appreciate that turkey is hosting millions of syrian refugees. but, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore the fact that turkey has moved far away from the secular state of kemal atatürk, also from the rule of law, and is oppressing the kurdish minority in an unprecedented way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i would like to congratulate those who have worked in the committee on regional development, because we know very well that it has not been easy to defend cohesion policy over the years. initial attempts to limit cohesion policy could have ended much worse. the result is good, but i would also like to draw attention to another thing: namely, that a very large number of representatives of local and regional authorities, businesses and ngos are now waiting, after the legislative basis has been established, for a clear decision: what will be financed and implemented by the national reconstruction plan, by the reconstruction fund and what will be implemented by cohesion policy. we all have before us - and i think it is also thanks to the commissioner and the whole of parliament - the need for a really clear and understandable explanation of what the reconstruction fund will be used for and what the structural funds will be used for. it's an emergency, and everyone's waiting for it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. cohesion policy is one of the most important european policies, because not only do we spend more than eur 300 billion, but through this policy we are implementing the principle of solidarity, which is very important in europe. with this policy, we are bringing development closer between different countries, between different regions. i was mayor of slovenia for 13 years. we have built many water pipes, sewage systems, built broadband connections on farms that are 800 meters high in the mountains, restored many cultural monuments. and those are the goals for the next few years. and now that this work in the european parliament, the european commission, in the european union is done, it is up to the countries to prepare excellent operational programmes, to combine them with recovery plans and to continue to welcome the signs that say that this was built with european funds and thus strengthen the european identity and support for the european union. congratulations to all who participated and we participated in these reports.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is good that we will have interreg for the next seven years. it's too bad there's less money for this program. two billion less for the border regions is not good. in the border regions in particular, interreg has helped people to come together on projects, to get to know each other and to understand each other in the past decades. interreg has made the borders in europe a little less visible. it's good that there will be a reduction in bureaucracy for smaller projects. i think this is particularly important for communities and groups of citizens. i am also pleased that the concept of macro-regions is being incorporated into the interreg programme for the first time. finally, macro-regions can only grow and succeed if there is money to implement their ideas. it is sad that the member states have done everything possible to drain the funds from interreg. this is also the spirit of some of our member states. the dismantling of borders, joint projects are becoming less and less fashionable. the capitals just want to put money in their pot and then spend it however they want. i believe and hope that this nationalistic spirit will not spread like an oil slick in the water. i certainly wish interreg and all the actors a successful work in the coming years!
member of the commission. – madam president, today’s debate clearly demonstrates the value of cohesion policy and the hope it brings for european citizens and for the regions. thank you for the kind words that a lot of you addressed to the commission. i will share them with the teams. in fact, now it is time to move from words to actions, finalising the preparation of programmes on the ground. here, i would like to underline that we should never forget the main purpose of cohesion policy. it is to promote convergence and correct internal disparities. for this, we need to look at the territories, address them and develop their development challenges, including rural areas, areas in demographic decline or with natural handicaps, peripheral regions, and outermost regions. i firmly believe that the green transition and the digital transition both bring new opportunities in new and in established industries, from sustainable tourism to sustainable transport, and from renewable energy networks to batteries. the digital and green transformation and teleworking also offer a golden opportunity to rebalance economic activity across european territories and make new regions competitive in new and innovative industries. but all these opportunities require planning and then investment, and this investment has got to be done in coherence across all the different instruments that we have in front of us. the recovery and resilience plans, the coronavirus response investment initiative, the just transition fund, react—eu and the 2021—2027 multiannual financial framework. they require that we apply a principle of ‘no harm to cohesion’ to all our policies and that, in the opposite sense, we benefit and we stimulate all the possible synergies so that in fact we do no harm to cohesion, meaning that nothing should aggravate the regional divide or hamper regional convergence. so our work together has just begun. it starts today with the adoption of these regulations. let’s keep monitoring and developing a new, more sustainable and more cohesive europe for all our citizens. thank you once again.
the joint debate is closed. i would like to inform you that with regard to these recommendations for second reading, no proposals to reject the council positions and no amendments have been tabled under rules 67 and 68, so the council positions are therefore deemed approved, and consequently the proposed acts are deemed to have been adopted. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i welcome the political agreement on the regulation on the european regional development fund/cohesion fund (erdf/cfsp) and the fact that the new programme has now been given the green light by the european parliament after the council. the erdf aims to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the european union by reducing disparities between regions. the erdf focuses its support on a number of high priority areas such as innovation and research, digitalisation, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and the low-carbon economy. i am pleased that the cohesion fund can also support energy and transport projects in the field of environmental protection, provided that they have clear environmental benefits in terms of energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy, the development of rail transport, the strengthening of public transport, etc. hungary will have some eur 20 billion (fg 7020 billion) available under cohesion policy for the period 2021-2027. hungary issued a statement on the incorrect use of the term 'gender' when adopting the legislative package on cohesion policy. hungary is convinced that these legislative documents are not adequate to define the content of gender. hungary shall interpret the term 'gender' as a reference to the term 'biological sex' in accordance with the relevant articles of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. cohesion policy is at the heart of european solidarity, aiming to reduce the territorial, economic and social disparities between member states so that no region of the european union is left behind. the european union has had to face new challenges. however, nothing should diminish the ambition of the eu's fundamental goal of cohesion: neither the repercussions of the uk's exit from the eu, nor the consequences of the climate situation or the covid-19 pandemic. the cohesion fund is one of the most significant areas of european union policies, accounting for about one third of the budget. romania will receive €28.22 billion from the cohesion funds (7.52%) from the eu's long-term budget. in this way, romania has a historic chance to implement investment programmes through sustainable growth and job creation. cohesion policy will encompass the efforts of member states to recover, to remedy the consequences of the crisis and to emerge stronger from this ordeal. in a post-pandemic world, cohesion policy funds will in particular support investments in innovation and entrepreneurship, in the digital and green transition and in transport networks.
in writing. the adoption of the cohesion policy package, comprising the common provisions regulation, interreg, the erdf and the cohesion fund, is absolutely essential to reduce the economic, social and territorial disparities still existing in the eu. this new package, which has the largest budget allocated in the financial budget for the period 2021-2027, should place greater emphasis on social programmes and sustainable urban development, as well as on climate action, thus aligning with the sustainability objectives of the european green deal. under the new common provisions regulation, both interreg and the erdf will now have to channel at least 30% of their resources to climate action, the circular economy and investments in sustainable growth and job creation. it is now important that the member states are prepared to start using this new budget as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. we have come to the conclusion of these long negotiations on the cohesion policy for the 2021-2027 programming period. we all know that this policy reflects the european union's solidarity with developing regions or regions in economic difficulty. it is now up to the member states to present operational programmes to implement the five strategic objectives we support. in this context, i am glad that this european solidarity applies in particular to the province of luxembourg in belgium, my region. as a less developed area, it will receive €54 million from the erdf. in this respect, i would like the commission to take account of the situation on the ground. it must be able to demonstrate some flexibility in the allocation of funds between strategic objectives, as the difficulties of one region are not those of another. for example, in the belgian province of luxembourg, strategic objectives 4 (a more social europe) and 5 (a europe closer to the citizen) deserve the most attention. the reason for this request for flexibility will of course be provided by the operational programmes drawn up by wallonia. thank you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are on the paris course, as the european commission's analysis shows quite clearly, at minus 55 per cent. let's compare ourselves to the united states of america. if they reach their goal by 2030, they will not be where we are today. some talk, some do! who's in charge in europe? one of them is forestry. the good news is that 10 percent of europe's emissions are already being captured by europe's forests. in addition to being a place of recreation and biodiversity, our forest is also one of our most active climate protectors. i am therefore particularly pleased that this climate protection law recognises for the first time that natural co2 reductions in agriculture and forestry are also genuine climate protection measures. i think this is a long overdue step in the assessment of the climate performance of agriculture and forestry. and now we finally listen to the science. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the climate law in its present form will only encourage farmers and foresters to do more to grow humus and to make agriculture more sustainable. this will allow us to increase our sink yields and achieve the goal of climate neutrality. but it does require a reasonable price tag. that is why i am in favour of a carbon market for agriculture. this will enable us to store even more co2, promote sustainable agriculture and forestry and maintain attractive rural areas.
madam president, mr vice-president, the european union is the first region in the world to have a climate law because it is right, because it is time and because not to act now would be more than a mistake, a real political mistake. the 2030 target is clear: 55% reduction in co2 emissions and carbon neutrality by 2050 at the latest. with this commitment, reiterated again by the commission, to propose no legislation henceforth that is not strictly aligned with the objectives of the paris agreement. the target is even better, with 57% less by 2030 if we increase land-use carbon sinks, knowing, it should be remembered, that the main natural carbon sinks are our oceans and they concentrate 50 times more than the atmosphere. i come to what i wanted to say this morning, here, it is essential, therefore, that europe does not forget the other battle for the planet: that of plastic pollution that is suffocating our oceans. booming plastics, cheap, durable, little or no recycling, that's the other threat to the climate. i conclude by saying that action is urgent. here too, europe must have a law for the protection of the oceans, a binding one, with the world as the field of action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the world is upside down and in this upside down world it snows in summer and it is hot in winter. in an upside-down world we will leave our homes because we have the desert all around us and in an upside-down world the appeals of scientists go unheeded and it is the courts that have to remind politicians of their responsibilities to future generations. but in this upside-down world , we still have a choice . choose what answer to give to our grandchildren when they ask us where we were when we destroyed the planet we borrowed for them. this european climate law is not enough: we are heading for a temperature increase of 2-3 degrees celsius, and the next 10 years are crucial, and europe is not doing enough. the truth is that we have no choice and for that reason, in my heart of hearts, i cannot vote for this european climate law and with the greens/efa group i will vote against it.
president, the european union wants to cut greenhouse gas emissions by half with a climate law. after all, we must be "climate neutral" by 2050. so we're going to be hurting ourselves economically, and in large parts of the world, there's no effort. - no, it's the opposite. for example, china burns 3.8 billion cubic tons of coal a year and builds hundreds of coal-fired power plants in its own country. and that's also happening in indonesia, zimbabwe and so on. so while the climate-neutral nuclear power stations in belgium are being closed down, coal is being bravely continued. the purple-green government in our country even opts for gas-fired power stations, which do emit greenhouse gases. but anyway, belgium is the land of surrealism. so let's look at europe, which is responsible for less than ten percent of emissions. the impact on the global climate is therefore negligible. what a climate hysteria!
madam president, commissioner, minister, we are finally here. and that's good. europe is moving forward. it sets ambitious reduction targets by 2030, by 2050, through this climate law, which is kind of the cornerstone of the green deal. we're going to have to go very fast, much faster than before, seven times faster than before. we know that the main thing now and in a few weeks' time will be the proposals that the commission can make to achieve these objectives. what are the means we are using in all the policies deployed both at the level of the commission, but also by the individual member states, by all the actors of society to achieve these necessary but ambitious objectives together? i recognize that there will be work to be done, and i hope that will be done, particularly on trade policy. it is unthinkable that tomorrow we will continue to negotiate trade agreements at european level without taking account of the real impact of greenhouse gases. at the very least, the analysis, and beyond the analysis, the ambition is also to actually impose these elements in the reduction of greenhouse gases. i would like to conclude by saying that i am very surprised, since i have heard some members of the groups, particularly the greens, say that this is not ambitious enough, that we are not going far enough. we are sometimes world champions in europe for criticizing ourselves, whereas ambition is the strongest on a world level. at the same time, these same greens in their respective countries are endorsing the same ambitions. we'll look for schizophrenia at another time.
madam president, today can be described as a great historic green day for the european union, because 71 years after the historic schuman declaration and 54 years after the founding of the european union, it is a great historic milestone that, through the adoption of the climate law, lays the foundations for the green transition. today, in fact, is the beginning of the great green revolution of the european union, which is becoming a leader and a pioneering green power, because it first set this big and enormously ambitious goal to make our own continent climate neutral by 2050. the european union was the first of all the powers on the planet to set a target of reducing that incredible 55 percent of carbon emissions by 2030, and the european union was the first to make the big green deal with hundreds of billions to go to a just green transition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is not harmful to the environment. i come from a small country, cyprus, which i believe can become the first green country in the european union, can become the first green island because it has the potential, because of the strong comparative advantages it has in terms of climatic conditions, to develop renewable energy sources and because there is the will and determination of the citizens and the government to turn cyprus into a model green island.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i just have a few remarks to make. first of all the big question: is at least 55% by 2030 enough to get us where we need to be? the answer of the commission is yes it is. we’ve done the numbers. we’ve analysed everything and we believe this will set us on the right trajectory. i believe our analysis is stronger today than it was a year ago because of the change in the international climate. many countries have joined our efforts. it was a lonely place a year and a half ago with our green deal, but now the us administration is back on track. i spoke to the chinese envoy, mr xie, this morning. china is upping the ante. we have a climate pact with japan. i will be travelling soon to south korea to discuss with them the possibilities to enhance etc., etc., etc. so i say without any reservation at least 55% by 2030 sets us on a course to climate neutrality by 2050 and we lead the way for the rest of the world, and i’m glad to say that the rest of the world more and more is following. so i would please ask you to have that confidence that it is enough. now i respect those who say that it isn’t enough, that we should be doing more. i respect that extra ambition, but i don’t understand how that can lead to a negative vote on the climate law. i do understand those who have denied and continue to deny and in my view completely abandon the citizens they represent by creating the illusion that there is no problem or that we can just bury our heads in the sand and then it will go away. i know those groups in this parliament and i understand that they vote against. aber ich habe überhaupt kein verständnis für ein negatives votum von den grünen. ich verstehe es einfach nicht! wir haben so gut zusammengearbeitet. wir haben auch so viel zusammen geändert in dieser ganzen prozedur. das scheint mir fast wie ein verantwortlichkeitsurlaub, den sie nehmen. denn sie wissen: auch wenn sie nein sagen – wahrscheinlich wird das parlament überwiegend ja sagen. und stellen sie sich mal vor, wir hätten ein anderes votum heute, wo es entscheidend ist, ob die grünen ja oder nein sagen. stellen sie sich mal vor, sie sagen nein und es gibt kein klimagesetz. was sind denn die folgen? sind sie dazu bereit, diese folgen zu tragen? ich sage das mal in ganz deutlicher sprache, weil wir noch so viel zu tun haben in den nächsten jahren. und ich hoffe auf eine konstruktive haltung aus der grünen-fraktion. wir brauchen sie, wir brauchen sie an bord! und ich will alles dafür tun als kommissar, dass sie auch an bord bleiben können. madam president, i ask for your indulgence just for one minute. whatever we do on climate with the climate law – which i think is a historic moment – whatever we do, we’ll fail if we don’t adhere to the fundamental values this european union was built upon. equality is a fundamental value. respect for diversity is a fundamental value. being gay is not a choice: it’s who you are. being a bigot is a choice that you should not make. being gay is not contagious: hatred is contagious. being gay is not dangerous to families: teaching children to hate is dangerous to families. it is profoundly non-european. we should stand up for our values. i say this in the place where all europeans are represented regardless of their religion, regardless of their race, regardless of their nationality, regardless of their gender, regardless of their sexual orientation or identity. if we have no equality we will not be saved by a climate law. if we have equality there’s nothing that can stop us.
acting president of the council. madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with great interest to this debate, which shows our common commitment to combating climate change. this is the right way. this is the commitment that will make us stronger and that will lead us to climate neutrality, a path to sustainability, to innovation, but also a path that will allow us to create more jobs, new businesses, without forgetting the social challenges of this transition that has to be just. this is the way for the planet and for the people. the european climate law, the law of laws, as the vice-president said, will be the cornerstone of the green deal with an impact on all european union policies. the law, together with the regulation on the governance of the energy union, will ensure that the european union has effective tools at its disposal to keep us on track and achieve the 2030 and 2040 and 2050 targets. the ambitious proposal put forward by the commission has been made even more ambitious by the many amendments which this parliament has introduced in the final text and which the council has accepted. we now have the political will, we have the ambitious and pragmatic basic legislation, we also have the financial instruments to help us achieve results. with the european climate law we are also sending a strong signal to the world, something we have already done at recent international summits. i hope that the ambition of those who feel that more needs to be done will help the union on its way and encourage other countries to follow our example, because climate change remains a global challenge that requires action on a global scale. it's all been said. now is the time to act and to act in the future, together for our common future.
just after the pre-publication of an alarming new un climate report, here is a completely inadequate climate law. scientists say that greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 65% by 2030, but the european union wants only a 55% reduction. worse, that 55% is accounting fraud. in reality, it is only -52.8%. again, this objective is only set at european level, not at national level. in other words, a country that wants to do less can always get out of it by saying: let someone else do more. that's how you organize a vicious circle. even the elimination of subsidies for polluting fuels is too much to ask. saying you want to save the climate, but not stopping the subsidizing of fossil fuels. you don't think it is possible. the european union naturally rejects any break with the free market, such as the notorious ets carbon market, which still distributes free emission allowances. a climate drama, a lot of profit for big business. the fund which was supposed to guarantee a socially just transition was amputated. we're already seeing attempts to get employees to pay for the transition. this climate bill has no future. we need a social climate revolution with ambitious climate goals, massive public investment and radical social goals.
madam president, commissioner, madam representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european public prosecutor's office finally started its work less than a month ago, which, i agree with you, commissioner, is a historic turning point in the fight against corruption and crossborder fraud. it is now up to us to ensure that its independence is strictly respected. however, the irregularities and the partisan intervention of the slovenian government, led by the ultra-conservative janša, in the procedure for appointing the deputy prosecutor in slovenia show that the government is clearly exceeding its powers. the unprecedented scale of the social and economic needs of european citizens following the pandemic and the scale of the resources allocated under the post-covid recovery plan require more vigilance than ever before in the face of the risks of fraud. the appointment of the deputy prosecutor should therefore be made in accordance with the procedures and the separation of powers of slovenia, which is a party to enhanced cooperation. but that's not all. after hungary and poland, which also decided not to join the european public prosecutor's office, we are witnessing an extremely worrying change in slovenia: attacks on the judiciary, the press, civil society and the opposition are repeated. the slovenian media is being bought by viktor orbán's allies. this development, as slovenia prepares to take over the presidency of the european union in a week's time, requires us to recall with one voice that respect for the rule of law in the european union is not negotiable. to prove this, the european commission must take a step forward: sanction schemes that do not respect the rule of law to prevent others, such as slovenia, from continuing to follow suit.
president, commissioner, the protection of children must not slip through the cracks of eu legislation. i am therefore very pleased that an agreement has been reached which guarantees both the safety of our children and our privacy. the protection of our children must be a priority not only for the eu but also for the rest of society. online child abuse is one of the many challenges that the eu must address urgently. according to a report by the council of europe, in 2020, a us monitoring system reported 10.4 million unique images and 3.7 million unique videos of child sexual abuse. this is happening in europe too, which means that the eu cannot stand by and watch. i am pleased that technology companies can continue to voluntarily monitor online child abuse, including grooming, provided they provide additional safeguards to protect our privacy. this, i believe, strikes a good balance between protecting children and protecting our privacy and data. however, we must remain vigilant and monitor the situation so that we can make improvements if necessary.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the funding for small fishing vessels up to 12 metres in length, the drawing up of a plan for the development of small-scale coastal fishing and 25% of the funds for the protection of biodiversity: these were some of the main requests parliament had approved with the aim of using european public funds to help those who really need it - the small-scale coastal fishing segment - and thus promote the protection and restoration of biodiversity in european seas. unfortunately, we are faced with a text, once again, watered down by the council, which, as usual in an opaque way, serves the interests of the large fleet to the detriment of small fishermen and marine biodiversity. public money cannot be used to support profitable businesses that risk contributing further to the depletion of our seas and must instead be made available to small fishermen, who are the pillars of the sustainable management of marine resources. i therefore call on my colleagues to vote against this text: parliament must send a clear signal of its commitment to the defence of small-scale coastal fishing and the protection of biodiversity.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this rich debate, which has shown support for our new fund. to conclude, let me underline the following two key principles. first, in the same way as all the other sectoral funds under the multiannual framework for 2021-2027, the emfaf will contribute to the european green deal. it will support the protection of biodiversity and the full transition to low-impact and sustainable fishing and aquaculture in line with our biodiversity strategy and the common fisheries policy. and second, public support through the emfaf should deliver maximum collective added value. it should support market failures and suboptimal investment situations, but not duplicate or replace private financing. instead, emfaf should facilitate and complement private investment, especially where the private sector is profitable, like the maritime economy in general is. in this context, i see a clear need to use financial instruments in addition to traditional direct grants. indeed, loans and guarantees can maximise private investments with minimum public support, in particular for energy-efficiency technologies, selective fishing gear and production facilities in the aquaculture and processing sectors. i am looking forward to the final and formal adoption of our fund by the co-legislators. our attention will then shift to the timely adoption of the national programmes which member states are currently preparing. as i said before, it is of the utmost importance that these national programmes deliver maximum added value, in particular as regards their contribution to the green and digital transitions and to stronger resilience of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. the action supported in this respect must address strategic needs and deliver clear results. with a fund as small as the emfaf, it is particularly important that every euro invested generates much more in terms of collective benefits and common good. let’s make the best use of it to address our key challenges and make it a success.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you for today’s opportunity to address a key demographic trend that is impacting our entire continent, namely ageing, a trend that will significantly impact the european union in the coming years and decades. it is vital that we prepare ourselves now. many thanks to the rapporteur beata szydło for the comprehensive report. the issues you address all echo the work of the european commission, including health and long-term care, measures to encourage active and healthy ageing and social inclusion. many of the competences linked to ageing are in the hands of the member states. nevertheless, the commission has an important role in supporting the relevant measures at national, regional and local levels. the von der leyen commission is the first one to dedicate one portfolio to demography. our work is based on the report on the impact of demographic change of june 2020. it is a valuable tool to help us to understand demographic change. we see how life expectancy at birth has increased by about 10 years for both men and women. one of the most prominent features of ageing is that the sheer number of older people will increase. today, 20% of the population is over 65. by 2070 it will be 30%. meanwhile, the share of people above 80 is expected to more than double, reaching 13% in the same period. the demography report lays the ground for the green paper on ageing. i want to emphasise the important message that ageing brings both challenges and opportunities. ageing is not just a matter for older people. everyone is impacted directly by the prospect of living a longer life, including the young. we must balance our policymaking for everyone across the entire life cycle, making sure we leave no one behind. adopted in january, the green paper was launched in the european union-wide discussion on ageing. it takes a life-cycle approach and reflects the universal impact that ageing has on all generations and stages in life. it highlights the importance of striking the right balance between sustainable solutions for our welfare systems and strengthening solidarity between the generations. in fact, the full title of the paper is ‘green paper on ageing: fostering solidarity and responsibility between generations’. this highlights the importance we attach to inter-generational fairness. the paper’s public consultation closed in april. we gathered a total of 473 replies from 26 member states, as well as some from non-european countries. we are now analysing the input and considering possible policy responses. in this context the commission has recently published three reports related to ageing, namely the 2021 pension adequacy report, the 2021 long-term care report, and the 2021 ageing report. the reports address some of the main challenges of a continent growing older and identify areas that are key to ensuring intergenerational responsibility and solidarity. i look forward to hearing your views today as we strengthen efforts to address the challenges of ageing and grasp its opportunities.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to welcome the honourable president, mrs dubravka šuica, to the european parliament for the debate today. finally, demographics came on the agenda. europe is indeed ageing, and if we do not anticipate the consequences of this ageing today, we could be in big trouble tomorrow. i would like to draw your attention to the increase in the epidemic of neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer's. of course, we need additional funding for research and, above all, for investing in human resources to care for the sick and elderly in the future. there is a growing shortage of these today. demographic challenges do not affect all countries in the same way, but the trend is worrying everywhere. in recent years, there has also been an increase in anti-ageing behaviour, and this situation has worsened during the pandemic. i therefore expect the commission to set guidelines and policies to encourage intergenerational cooperation. older people are our wisdom, which we can use with the bold ideas of younger people to elevate to a collective success.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, for years europe has been pushing people to work longer 60, 65, 67 years and the further back the retirement age goes, the more people suffer from long-term illnesses. basically, your policies are making people sick. you can imagine my indignation when i read in your new analysis, your green paper, that the ideal retirement age should be 70 in europe, or even 72 in luxembourg and lithuania. but can you imagine? in lithuania, the average life expectancy for men is not even 72 years. you really want people to die on the job? it's still amazing that you would say that. so i'm pretty much on board with what joelle said. joëlle is a domestic helper and she said to me: 'i wish politicians would work a week or a few days like us. they'd realize that working until 67 is a pain. we can't take it anymore. let's guarantee the right to rest! pension a dignified and decent pension is a human right. and if the european commission doesn't agree, then let her work as a domestic helper for a week! we're going to send all these commissioners to make this effort, to work a little harder as a domestic helper or as a laborer... and they'll understand why we say working longer is not feasible.
i would ask the slovenian presidency, mr president, to follow up on the portuguese initiative on trade relations. the positive results of the eu-us summit need to be worked out. slovenia has a reputation for artificial intelligence and is therefore ideally placed to launch the technology council. the steel and aluminium tariffs also need to be resolved in a sustainable way. i also hope that under this presidency the commission will be given a negotiating mandate to reach a separate trade and investment agreement with our strategic partner india, after eight years of stalemate. finally, the international trade system of the wto must be put back on track, and so concrete results must be achieved at the 12th ministerial conference. it's time for results!
in writing. the european network and telecommunications facility plays an important role in the development of europe's energy infrastructure. at the beginning of the new budgetary cycle, it is timely to discuss the initiative in three dimensions: the results achieved, the new tasks and the impact on the central european region. in view of the results, the device has proved to be as expected. the projects have helped to create an integrated energy market. the european energy grid is thus better equipped to deal with shocks than before. in addition to completing the ongoing developments, the programme will also have to fulfil new tasks. the investments should also contribute to the promotion of decarbonisation and renewable energy sources, in line with the climate ambitions. finally, the instrument has also proved to be a driver of energy infrastructure development in central europe. the krk lng terminal has opened up global natural gas markets for the region. in the new cycle, the danube ingrid smart grid project will facilitate the effective integration of renewable energy sources in hungary and slovakia.
in writing. ensuring that the ten-t connections are completed quickly and efficiently is a matter of securing adequate funding and simplifying permitting rules. the rapid implementation of new regulations can reduce delays in the implementation of infrastructure projects and facilitate the participation of private investors. however, the new acts must not paralyse well-functioning national planning and permitting procedures and national institutions, including local and regional authorities. there is no need for eu intervention where countries themselves comprehensively regulate the stages of the procedure and activities and take additional account of specific regional conditions and requirements. the structure and organisation of the national authorities are a matter for the member states. the revised legal framework will give member states the flexibility to use existing procedures. the eu's approach to the ten-t has been to develop east-west links, which has delayed the development of connectivity and the socioeconomic development of regions in eastern europe. we must urgently make up for the losses and redirect funds to projects linking northern and southern europe, especially investments in the eastern flank countries. my regions warmia and mazury and podlasie still qualify as least accessible regions, despite the fact that two ten-t core corridors run through them. the s7 road is part of the baltic-adriatic transport corridor and the s61 road is part of the north sea-baltic corridor.
in writing. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this report and for your consultative work in this context. the safety objective of the traffic management system must remain a priority for the member states in the implementation of ertms. similarly, improving comfort and interoperability for passengers should drive further application of the directive, to make the train ever more attractive. finally, improving the speed and delivery times of rail freight will also support the credibility of the sector vis-à-vis road and air transport. to support deployment in the 21st century, i believe that the functionalities offered by satellites and particularly the galileo system must be given priority in the future. the development of satellite positioning for railway mobility, which is less expensive than a physical beacon, would further enhance its credibility at international level. research resources must be devoted to rapid implementation, on the main lines and throughout europe. new technologies can be used to meet the requirements of fluidity and security, but also to inform the public. we have enough to meet all our objectives.
madam president, the eu’s magnitsky act represents an important foreign policy instrument that allows us to defend the values and principles on which our union was founded and to punish those who are responsible for human rights abuses. however, i believe that it is absolutely essential that the sanctions regime also target economic and financial enablers of these human rights abuses. this is why the member states must urgently expand the scope of the eu magnitsky act by drawing on the us global magnitsky act and include acts of corruption within the instrument. all too often oligarchs or representatives of oppressive regimes launder money through our european cities, use the money stolen from their own people to repress them, as well as to corrupt and interfere in our democratic processes. using the magnitsky act to go after the money will not only help people who wish to live in free societies, but it will also make our own free societies more resilient.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, well, i will not leave brussels today for ljubljana, i will stay with you for a couple of days so i will be able to discuss further. about those that should fall under this type of sanction regime: there are unfortunately many across the world who could be listed under this regime. the first listings were not meant to be exhaustive and the regime will continue to be used in the coming years. there was an intervention regarding incompleteness of the regime that the eu installed in the process. well, this sanction regime was designed to address serious human rights violations and abuses, and that is exactly what it is focusing on. it covers genocide, crimes against humanity, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and slavery, among others. at the same time, and at the time of the establishment of the regime, member states opted not to include corruption as one of the listing criteria. however, the framework of the regime also allows the economic enablers of human rights violations or persons or entities benefiting from such violations to be listed. with this sanctions regime, we make it clear that there are serious consequences to those violations and abuses. and the eu does not turn a blind eye. and it is for the council to decide by unanimity if any additional criterion should be added or not. there were also as well many interventions regarding unanimity. as you know, the modalities and scope of the new sanctions regime have to be agreed between member states by unanimity, including the provision on voting for the adoption of new listings. when the high representative submitted to the council the draft legal act for the establishment of the new sanctions regime, he systematically proposed to use qualified majority voting for the adoption of new listing. the eu global human rights sanctions regime was no exception. however, the member states decided that unanimity was required for any listings. under most of the eu sanctions regime, new listings are adopted by unanimity and not qualified majority voting. this standard practice is that member states reach consensus even in the few cases where qualified majority voting is possible. however, the high representative continues to believe that the greater use of qualified majority voting in the area of foreign and security policy could bring considerable benefit, to make decisions faster and more efficient. and the high representative will continue to discuss this issue with member states. as you know, the high representative made two proposals regarding the regime and both proposals were adopted in the council. that proves it works and that we succeeded to translate political commitment into actions. there was a question on how to cooperate with other third states, so like-minded countries such as the us, uk, canada have an ongoing interest to work together to combine with the eu to maximise the impact of respective human rights sanction regimes. this is an interest that we share and we maintain an open dialogue with them. and with other sanction regimes: 14 countries are systematically invited to align with our sanction decisions. this includes eu candidate countries and countries from the european free trade association and the european economic area. it is the regime that has been in force for the last six months, while the magnitsky act has been in power since 2012. about the scope: the regime covers serious human rights violations and abuses. more concretely, acts covered by the eu global human rights sanction regime are genocide, crimes against humanity, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, slavery, extrajudicial summary or arbitrary execution and killings, enforced disappearance of persons, arbitrary arrests or detentions. it also covers other acts including, but not limited to, the following, insofar as these violations or abuses are widespread, systematic or are otherwise of serious concern as regards the objectives of the common foreign and security policy set out in article 21 of the treaty on european union, mainly trafficking in human beings as well as abuses of human rights by migrant smugglers, and referred to in article 1 of the council decision. and sexual and gender-based violence, then violation or abuses of freedom of peaceful assembly and of association, and violation or abuses of freedom of opinion and expression, violations or abuses of freedom of religion or belief. and how do we see the role of the european parliament? as i said already in the introductory remarks, we would like to acknowledge the important role that the european parliament has played in the establishment of the eu global human rights regime. your longstanding support across political groups significantly contributed to create the necessary momentum. and we are committed to continuing our exchange with the european parliament on this regime. in line with the existing treaty provisions, the council decides on the modalities and scope of any sanctions regime and on any listing proposal put forward by the member state or / and the high representative. of course, the high representative will surely consider the work of the european parliament in this field and especially its proposals. the eu global human rights sanctions regime was a missing link in our eu human rights toolbox. we now have a powerful tool at our disposal which we can use to complement our action at bilateral and multilateral level. we continue monitoring closely serious human rights violations and abuses around the world, and we will not shy away from taking further decisive action in the near future.
thank you very much, minister. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 7 july 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. you want a european sanctions mechanism, a global sanctions mechanism, and you want to see a european sanctions mechanism. like the united states, you want to sanction the whole world. i mean, not the whole world, just the countries that don't obey you. the countries that do not follow the policy of european imperialism. those who do not open up to european multinationals. because let's not pretend that you care about human rights. you have never sanctioned israel or even threatened israel with sanctions, despite the violations of international law that the country is guilty of. you do not want to call this mechanism the magnitsky act, like its american counterpart, because you know that this american instrument is notorious. he's notorious because us sanctions have killed from the middle east to latin america. the first victims of your sanctions are and always will be the workers, the women, the families. your unilateral mechanisms undermine international law by circumventing multilateralism within and through un institutions. that's enough of that. peace and indivisible human rights are achieved through diplomacy, respect for international law and international solidarity involving workers, trade unions and social movements. not by sanctions imposed by governments defending the interests of their multinational corporations.
madam president, i would like to ask the president of the european council, how is your back? i’m asking because eu relations with turkey look like self-flagellation, and that must leave painful marks, does it not? this not only hurts you, but teaches others like lukashenko how to treat us all as the eu: with no respect. then you may end up calling more people to remind them again that you are the president and that the eu is united. then we are powerless – because having power is like being a gentleman: one is or one is not. if you have to say that you are, we all know what that means, don’t we? it’s actions that must speak. unfortunately, the turkey chapter in the european council conclusions mostly appears to be a carbon copy of the previous european council conclusions, while erdoğan’s actions are changing. this needs to change. let’s accept that this turkey cannot become a member of the eu and use the third instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa iii) to support turkey’s civil society instead of funding the accession assistance. let’s repair our asylum immigration system and let’s continue supporting syrian refugees, but give the funds directly to them.
the european union condemns the restrictions on fundamental freedoms by president putin and therefore intends to continue to inject funds into human rights organisations and independent media in russia. the eu is thereby undermining russia's sovereignty. imagine the opposite. the russian president was elected by 76% of the electorate, but the same cannot be said of the european commission, which is not elected at all. finally, there is hypocrisy in the matter of freedom of expression. geert wilders is sentenced for his opposition to mass immigration. in belgium, prison sentences are imposed for protesting against islamization. in addition, the belgian state broadcaster has become a red-green propaganda channel and all parties are allowed to carry propaganda in the newspapers during the elections, except the flemish interest. so before you lecture russia, take a look at yourself.
madam president, the eu council looked at the national plans for economic recovery and resilience, but i must highlight to this parliament worrying issues of transparency and democracy. ireland’s national plan seems to be a secret! drawn up with scant consultation or outreach, the plan was submitted without democratic debate and we now know much of it was redacted, visible to neither the public nor their elected representatives. the irish people have a right to know what future decisions are being made for them. is tax policy being decided in a redacted document by civil servants in brussels and dublin without due democratic recourse? details of any reform must be publicly scrutinised, not developed under pressure to access recovery funds. the irish people did not elect representatives to dublin and brussels to have the truth hidden away from them. this culture of secrecy is unacceptable!
mr president i was born into a national minority. in the last 17 years, as a representative of the ep, the commission has repeatedly written to me, in response to dozens of questions i have asked, on the discrimination of these minorities, citing the exclusive competence of the member states to do nothing, to not have competence in the field of minorities. the council debate and the president of the commission here today are completely contrary to this. the question to mrs von der leyen is therefore whether the protection of minorities is a matter of national competence in some member states and not in others. or is discrimination against certain minorities a matter for the member states, while other minorities are not? he launched a united attack against the hungarian child protection law, without knowing it. they even threatened to bring hungary to its knees. yet, the charter of fundamental rights also states that parents have the right to provide their children with an education in accordance with their convictions and that the best interests of the child are paramount. the commission's analysis that the hungarian law is problematic because it discriminates against children in relation to adults in certain matters is absurd. the law protects children above all. it's disturbing if you disagree with that.
madam president, i still remember the dark time of communist injustice in my country. i still remember the brave people that were fighting for more justice and freedom for everyone and for a better future. it is sad and shocking to see that, just a few decades later, one of them, viktor orbán, is pursuing a policy that is nearly a copy and paste of the politics of that time, a policy that will hardly make a better life for thousands of hungarians. so that’s why i am really pleased to see that we will stay behind freedom and behind european values, and will react strongly and clearly to such a development. secondly, let me say that i am glad to hear that within the council they are going back to economic topics on the agenda. it is very important. in this respect, let me call on the council not to miss the opportunity to support and strike the global tax deal that is just being negotiated within the oecd framework. this is very important. we should not miss this opportunity and we should implement it swiftly later. this would be for the benefit of our economy and obviously for the political standing of the european union.
madam president, the last european council raised the need to avoid the loss of human lives and to reduce the pressure on european borders. but, ladies and gentlemen, the council's conclusions do not save lives. we need urgent action. the council has given specific instructions to the commission and the high representative to step up support and assistance to priority countries of origin and transit in close cooperation with the member states. mr šefčovič, could the commission tell us what measures and objectives will be given priority in the action plans for this autumn and how the use of financial resources in the field of migration will be improved? finally, let us return to the matter of urgency. i would like to reiterate once again the need to put in place a genuine european plan for maritime search and rescue and for the disembarkation of migrants in safe ports, agreed between frontex, the commission and the member states. we need a precise and effective protocol to save lives.
president, president michel, vice-president šefčovič, earlier this year the council decided to provide further support for the reception of refugees in turkey. the council also decided that efforts should be made in the wider region to help syrian refugees. this is certainly necessary for these refugees, but it is also a matter of self-interest. the budgetary procedure for this financing has not yet been decided. nevertheless, i should like to speak briefly about the way in which the funds are being spent. to date, there is a fairly broad consensus that this is done efficiently and effectively enough. however, it is clear that the continuation of this support and the structural anchoring of this effort will also change the nature of the operation, which may have an impact on the sound use of the funds. i therefore advocate a management structure with sufficient flexibility, in which envelopes are not fixed and in which basic support remains central. we should not therefore institutionalize a temporary measure - something we are unfortunately good at in the union - and then come to the conclusion that we could have done better otherwise.
madam president, after the shock of brexit five years ago, eu leaders reflected on what went wrong and what to improve. they even spoke of a more loose eu framework in which countries could choose their integration speed. it seems long ago and far away. ever-closer union apostles are back, big time, adding to problems through polarised emotional debates. they condone leaders who act pro-eu. but if you do not commit to the eu superstate ideal, you are in for a battle. big time! we live in emotional times. things go out of control easily. western european democratic ideals may be different from eastern europe’s democratic practices, but we have much more in common than we probably think right now. stop the political nonsense. it’s not the eu that determines eu values, it’s up to the european people. focus on what is really important. we can overcome every kind of challenge if we respect each other in a united europe.
mr president, madam president, european values are not negotiable. all those who push them, governments or citizens, must have an answer other than a simple finger of reproach. anyone who, in any way, violates these values must be punished. this is the case today. in any case, you are using all the mechanisms at your disposal to punish such behaviour and all those who undermine the foundations of the european union as such. the real question is: are these mechanisms sufficient? are they fast and effective enough to be really effective and binding in the field? i would like to mention another matter which you raised in the council and which i believe is urgent at european level. it also concerns freedoms, the various personal freedoms. this is the debate on compulsory vaccination that took place in italy, is taking place in france now and is now raging all over europe. i wanted to know, firstly, whether you have raised this issue at the european council and, secondly, whether you intend to take it up in a body-on-body manner so that we do not find ourselves in cacophony again with decisions being taken by different member states on the vaccination requirement for carers or others, and so that we have a common position on this matter. i think that among the freedoms and values we defend, the freedom of each person ends somewhere or the other begins. we must all be aware that it is only collectively that we can effectively fight and combat covid and that life is made of, it is true, freedom and rights, but also duties.
mr president, conflating homosexuality and transidentity with paedophilia is yet another episode of the hungarian government looking desperately for election topics to distract from corruption. it is yet another attack on fundamental rights, and as the eu, we have the tools to protect our values. but what is missing is the political will in the council to use them. signing statements at council is not enough. the council must address the deterioration of fundamental rights in hungary by issuing concrete recommendations, including a call to repeal this misleading law. the new hungarian law is not only homo- and transphobic: it is severely restricting the rights of children, rather than protecting them. mr orbán, you will never prevent one single young man or woman from being lesbian, from being gay, from being bisexual, transgender or intersexual, because this is an identity! so please stop talking about ideology. what you are doing is forcing young people to hide their identity, which often ends in suffering and in suicide. rather than protecting anyone, you foster hate, intolerance and aggression towards vulnerable groups. and we don’t have to look far to see what happens when politicians follow russia-style narratives on lgbti people. on monday, thousands of far-rightist hooligans violently disrupted tbilisi pride. the organisers had to flee for their lives, and journalists have been beaten up. is this the direction we want for the european union? will we allow the hungarian and polish governments to use violence against people like me and others? no, the council and the commission must take bold actions now and give hope to people in hungary and poland. (applause)
mr president, we can already congratulate mr orbán on winning the european championship for the most homophobic law on the continent. last week, the new european far-right alliance has signed up to a common declaration of their values that are profoundly homophobic and sexist. and the only answer to such an alliance is a passionate defence of european values of equality. yet the european council, it has already been said by many, stubbornly and shamefully refuses to act. no wonder, because the main defenders are actually members of that same european council, and the others are their enablers, let’s say the european mitch mcconnells. now, last week, the government leaders spoke strong words on lgbti rights, and even suggested the expulsion of hungary. but expulsion is no solution, and it even betrays the millions of hungarian people who count on europe for support. the government leaders finally have to choose what side of history they want to be on, and vote on article 7.
mr. president, while lgbt parties are going on unhindered in budapest, the police in istanbul are dismantling the pride parade. orbán is condemned, but erdoğan has recently received another three billion euros. the european union is a hypocrite. promoting gender ideology to children is a personal choice for parents and a policy choice for voters. this is not the case in the european union, where we seem to have only the freedom to agree if we do not want to be prosecuted and punished. the european union is authoritarian. we have learned after two world wars that we can maintain peace by respecting diversity, democracy, identity and sovereignty. but now, with brute force and a sense of superiority, they want to bring backward countries to their knees. this euro-fanatic imperialism is totalitarian, dangerous and downright anti-european.
in writing. – the overwhelming majority of the council members were outraged by the anti-lgbtiq law orbán introduced in hungary. rightfully so. orbán has crossed redlines before but that was a new low. i welcome the response by most heads of state and government but it should not stop here. the council needs to trigger article 7 against this hungarian government. all legal means should be applied in order to show orbán that he has gone too far. we are a union of values whether orbán likes it or not. he does not want to listen to reason, he therefore must face the consequences. the hungarian anti-lgbtiq law goes against everything the european union stands for. when you are a member of the eu, you sign up to our values. it is not an ‘a la carte’ menu. we need to stand up against the deteriorating situation of lgbtiq-rights in hungary. we have to take action and hold the hungarian government accountable. this is about protecting what is most precious, the freedom of our people.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, since 2009, achieving the european research area (era) has been an explicit treaty objective. nevertheless, progress is still needed today to accomplish many of the era objectives. for instance, on the level of research and innovation expenditure, we are still lagging very much behind other countries such as israel, south korea, japan or the us. research and innovation (r&i) are essential to enable europe’s recovery in a fair and sustainable way, bringing forward the green and digital transitions while at the same time enhancing our competitiveness and resilience, in particular taking into account the lessons learned from the covid—19 pandemic. the eu, its member states and regions have to redouble efforts and significantly increase r&i expenditure and to align these efforts with a more ambitious eu industrial policy that is consistent with the european climate law and the goal of climate neutrality. furthermore, member states should take full advantage of the next generation funds in order to boost their r&i efforts, making them a real driving force for advancing the twin transition. after all, a well—developed era is essential for promoting both fundamental research and the more applied research, enabling us to find faster and concrete solutions for the pressing challenges ahead. academic freedom is a fundamental pillar in the era and has to be promoted internationally, but also in the eu, especially in the light of some internal threats, as pointed out in the european court of justice (ecj) ruling on hungary and foreign higher education institutions. finally, yet importantly, we have to acknowledge the role of regional governments in promoting r&i policies and developing and connecting r&i ecosystems. there are some very successful experiences of that which significantly contribute to the excellence of european research.
we now proceed to the debate on the request for an oral answer (o-000031/2021 b9-0026/21) (2021/2524 (rsp)).
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, what a waste! my dear colleagues, the ball! frankly, it's not made up. i read and i just learned that two years before the covid pandemic, the european commission said: "there is a risk of an epidemic, we must prepare ourselves". there was, of course, a coronavirus in 2003, and then a second coronavirus in 2012. it is indeed logical to want to be prepared. what is the european commission doing? she's going to the pharmaceutical industry, of course! she said, "look, we have a lot of public money. billions of euros. and we'd like you to do some research on epidemics. other i must admit that the european commission was very keen on this. but what does big pharma say? - no, i did not. fuck you! we're not interested in that. it's not making enough money. and wait, it's not over! because what's the real scandal? this is the european commission's reaction. because what does she say when big pharma says to her, "look, no, you're not interested in epidemic research?" she says, "okay". well, it's up to you. other but wait, are you kidding? they make the law? and then we, the citizens, are faced with a year of lockdown and millions of deaths globally. you think that's normal? it's unbelievable and it's shameful! so it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to take back control of health and research. let's focus on finding the drugs we need instead of the drugs that make the most money.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, bangladesh is ranked among the ten worst countries in terms of workers' rights and trade union rights by the international trade union confederation. the conventions of the work organization are not respected. the rights of workers, trade unions, freedom of expression, freedom of association, but also child labour are not respected. i know that the ilo and the european union are working with the government of the country; however, pending the implementation of all these conventions which are announced in a few years, i would like to draw attention to an agreement that has made a difference since the rana plaza tragedy in 2013. at that time, we became aware of the conditions under which the well-known brands of clothing we wear every day are produced, of the responsibility that we, politicians, companies, consumers bear, while 60% of textile production, the most important industry in the country, is destined for the european market. fashion brands then committed themselves to an unprecedented agreement to improve health and safety in their factories and subcontractors - a binding agreement that has paid off for the benefit of workers, but which is now on hold because some companies would like to end this agreement and move forward on the basis of voluntary initiatives only. since that experience in 2013, the agreement has shown us that for corporate responsibility to be effective and for the benefit of workers, the role of trade unions and ngos must be respected. negotiations between trade unions and brands are under way to renew the agreement on the protection of workers. we ask the european commission to intervene with influential european players in the sector to encourage the conclusion of a binding agreement with an independent monitoring body. we also ask that this agreement be transposed to other countries affected by insecurity at work, such as india, pakistan, morocco and egypt. we are all looking forward to the legislation on corporate social responsibility. but in the meantime, there is an agreement that must be renewed to ensure and guarantee respect for the rights of workers.
on behalf of the group of the european right president, can you imagine this? locked up in a small cell, completely in solitary confinement. day in, day out, waiting. every time that cell door opens, your heart stops beating and you think it's your last day. that is the terrible situation in which dr djalali, a european citizen, finds himself today. this is torture. i am truly shocked by the brutal treatment of dr. djalali by the iranian authorities. the eu should do more than just make statements of concern or deep concern. the time for diplomatic language seems to have passed. he's been locked up for five years, far from his family. and during these five years, the eu has achieved nothing. the clock is ticking, and every day could be his last. the eu must act now or it will soon lose one of its citizens. but this would also send a message: we are the eu and we cannot protect you. you can't say that to our citizens!
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, abusive legal procedures or abuse online, financial pressure, cyberespionage, physical violence and murder, or intimidation by states like in malta where daphne caruana galizia was assassinated; in hong kong, where the press is intimidated and the press room invaded in the name of a stupid law; and by drug criminals like in the netherlands where journalist peter r. de vries has been shot this week and is still fighting for his life. many remain under threat in hong kong, but also here in europe. as a kid, i wanted to become a journalist because this is how you inform citizens and protect democracy. it was journalists who informed the little girl i was in a remote african village about the world. there are still many little girls out there who need to be informed. as politicians today, we must fight crime and do all we can to give the press the opportunity to do their job and play their part of the democracy partition. as citizens, we need to do something too: to pay for news. as long as we want all news for free, we forget that we build financial vulnerability for many journalists and newsrooms. we have a choice to make here, now and every day: there is no democracy without a free press.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we need more cooperation in the european union to tackle pandemics and other challenges. and we need more independence from china and others to be able to act as europeans and to protect our citizens. and contrary to what has been said here in part, the european treaties allow us to go further than we have done so far. there is a good proposal from the two rapporteurs and i thank all those who have helped, especially the epp members esther de lange and radan kanev. the epp will support both reports tomorrow. we need to continue to learn from the mistakes that were made during the pandemic and to draw lessons. i therefore very much welcome, stella kyriakides, the commission's announcement this week that it will present a proposal on hera so that we can buy the necessary materials, such as vaccines, more quickly. and here i want to make something very clear again: i've just heard a lot of nonsense in the debate about the lack of benefit of vaccines and the non-existent risk of covid-19 in people under 70. i'm afraid i know differently. i talk to icu doctors, and the hospitals are full, the icus are full of young people who haven't been vaccinated and are under 70. and i was recently at my old clinic where i worked, the children's clinic. and unfortunately, it has also happened quite often that pregnant women have had a severe course and that newborns have also been affected. so the vaccine is important. that should be a message of this debate.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we have learned anything from this covid-19 crisis, it is that patchwork measures in the various member states do not provide a solution. on the contrary, we need more europe, more coordination, faster agreements, better preparation and smoother cooperation in the field of public health. together, we can save more lives. what we have also learned is that the energy and time required to deal with such a health crisis has immense implications for the mainstream health care in the member states. at the most critical stage of this crisis, regular care was shut down. cancer screening, emergency treatment or surgery were postponed, with all the consequences that followed. we must avoid this in the future. the continuity of cancer care and screening must be guaranteed, also during the pandemic. by working together more closely, we can respond to pandemics faster and avoid having to delay routine care for too long. therefore, we call for special attention to be given to these vulnerable target groups and ensure that regular care is an integral part of any preparedness and response plan. because that will also save lives.
mr president, last summer was marked by deadly floods in central europe and by devastating forest fires in the mediterranean countries. in greece, at least nine times as much land was destroyed as last year. the area burned has now exceeded one million hectares and the whole of northern evia is in danger of being abandoned. this requires a comprehensive rehabilitation plan with development projects such as a modern road axis for easier access to the area. because of climate change, dangerous weather events will be stronger and more frequent, with natural disasters now threatening us on a permanent basis. the mobilisation of the european civil protection mechanism has helped to reduce the consequences. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. let's look to the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. firstly, we must proceed immediately with the joint order for canadair firefighting aircraft, so that the production line can be started and we can substantially increase the resources we have at european and national level. secondly, we should put more emphasis on prevention so that the member states are better prepared, of course making use of the potential and funding available to upgrade national protection policy plans. thirdly, since the limitations of the solidarity fund in terms of the conditions for its activation, the amount of support and the type of disasters covered reduce its effectiveness, it is necessary to proceed with the creation of a new fund to deal with the consequences of climate change.
mr president, madam commissioner, we are talking about real people, disasters, and mrs von der leyen, the president of the commission, has come to see us. she went to rochefort, to pepinster and in front of the people there, she said she had a bleeding heart. she said, "my heart is broken". i think she should have apologized rather, because because of the european austerity measures, which the belgian government is implementing with great enthusiasm, we in belgium have closed four of the six civil protection stations and our fire brigades are terribly short of equipment. but no, you're going to continue this murderous austerity, so to speak. and if you've been crying in front of people, here, out of sight, i think you're stabbing them with this new carbon tax on transportation. this tax will hit exactly the same workers who have suffered from the floods today, while, as we know, it is the rich who pollute the most. i'd like to ask you to save your crocodile tears. we need to protect workers today, to abandon austerity once and for all and to make billionaires pay to save our planet.
mr. speaker, joseph and annie drowned in their own home when their bungalow was completely submerged. paulette and arlette fought the floods in the house together and died when the house was swept away by the pounding water. yannick tried to save his daughter, but was swept away by the swirling water. these are just some of the many horror stories that have been unfolding in my own country over the past summer. these natural disasters in our own backyard are unprecedented. it's no longer about melting icebergs a few thousand miles away. climate change is a reality and it's catching up with us fast. europe must not lose sight of its climate ambitions. we have big plans with the green deal and the ready for 55 package. we must now urgently ensure that the budget for the solidarity fund is adequate and can be disbursed quickly.
mr president, this summer europe was hit by floods and wildfires. relief workers did all they could to prevent people and animals from being injured or drowned, but to no avail. countless people were injured and more than 200 people were killed. in addition, tens of thousands of people were forced to flee their homes. we are deeply sympathetic to the victims and feel that they should be given the best possible help. it is therefore important to know whether the european emergency response is still appropriate for major climate disasters. more important are the questions about climate policy. european weather experts say we must do everything we can to stop climate change, so that what we now consider extreme does not become normal. does the commission intend to take additional climate measures or is it still not insisting that we will not be able to cope with half-hearted climate and agricultural policies that negate this climate action? that is why i believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we saw some shocking footage of the devastation of the floods in july. we had barely woken up from this and already witnessed the unbridled destruction of the forest fires. in the town of sinzig, germany, flooding killed 12 disabled people in a home because help was late. however, we do not have precise statistical data on this. what is certain is that statistics show that older people and people with disabilities are twice as likely to be victims of natural disasters. in addition to reducing the risk of natural disasters, europe must continue to monitor and develop its risk communication system and use the latest technological innovations. in hungary, the emergency notification service (vész) is a free application developed for smartphones and tablets. the information, warnings and alerts displayed here are intended to provide reliable and accurate information and to ensure the safety of users. we have to follow this path!
mr president, floods and fires have claimed many lives this summer, caused tens of thousands of euros in damage and will leave indelible traces. while the climate crisis has been deepening the north-south divide for years, it is now also marking the social divide within our countries. in pepinster, the floods primarily affected the poorest families. the social impact of the climate crisis is frontal. the victims, the thousands of volunteers still working two months later, the european citizens for whom climate and the environment are among the main concerns, and the latest report by the ipcc scientists are all demanding answers. humanity is in code red. emergency aid and solidarity funds and the availability of funds are essential to deal with situations of this magnitude. but structural measures are also needed. investing in public services, civil protection, fire, emergency and health services, adapting policies and adopting climate change mitigation and adaptation policies that strengthen social cohesion - this is the real urgency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. disaster relief and solidarity funds are important, and i think we can put that out of the way to help the victims on the ground and to express our sympathy. but extreme weather and natural disasters, my dear colleagues, have always existed in human history and will always exist. the climate on our mother earth has been changing for billions of years. and the question is, where does man come into play? and i can answer them for you: namely, the green deal that is now being proposed by the european commission. it's easy to see nuclear power as part of the green deal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the nuclear crisis. in poland, for example, nuclear power will replace coal-fired power stations. and that's where we come to the human being being, because he's a human being. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are things we don't want. this is a nuclear power plant where there are old reactors in the middle of europe, where ghosts are being summoned that nuclear disasters will happen again in europe.
mr. chairman, commissioner, first of all, i'd like to begin my speech by paying tribute to all the men and women who are fighting the natural disasters and risking their lives to save the lives of others. unfortunately, in the last 20 years, almost every single country in the european union has been in a situation where they have to ask for help from the european union, whether it's after an earthquake, whether it's after a fire, whether it's after a landslide or after a flood, and unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be getting better with time. 5 billion from the solidarity fund went to such disasters. but there's more hope in the solidarity fund than money. and we have to say to ourselves that before we can take care of the environment, we have to take care of the people. there are a few things we need to be honest about between ourselves and the people who are watching us from the outside. the solidarity fund needs more money and it needs to be released faster. people expect us to react immediately and when disaster strikes, the european union to be there for them. otherwise, they'll be inclined to believe all kinds of fake news and misinformation that someone a thousand miles away is helping them more than their own country thanks to the union. more money in the solidarity fund, faster relaxation and better communication so we can be there for people when they need us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking about natural disasters, i would also like to share with you one that my country, the czech republic, has experienced. a tornado struck southern moravia in late june, causing billions of dollars in damage and, worse, loss of life. of course, this is a subject that could be discussed at length, but i would like to emphasize two things. the first is the need for good weather forecasting and early warning systems for citizens, which obviously didn't work here. and the second one is about the great solidarity of the people. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who helped south moravia, and maybe a little more volunteers and volunteer firefighters. because firefighters are the ones who don't cry every year about having to buy new military equipment for billions, and yet they were the first to arrive and stayed the longest. thank them for that.
mr president, madam commissioner, i should first like to thank our italian, austrian and french friends who have come to our region in an emergency, to wallonia and also to germany, to help and to help the victims. listen to all the debates we can have about global warming this morning. i have no doubt that there may indeed be a link between what we have experienced in wallonia or germany and global warming. today, however, tens of thousands of families affected by the disaster are waiting for a strong and united response from europe, so that tomorrow they can rebuild their region, simply build their homes, provide transport solutions, particularly in the field of rivers and waterways, but first of all, simply to meet basic needs. we can also start yet another debate on global warming, but the urgency is elsewhere. from the moment that the president of the commission, mrs commissioner, has committed herself to intervene on the spot, to provide funds and budgetary means so that european solidarity is at its best, we must, you must provide the means as quickly as possible to give not only hope but, very concretely, help to the victims, whether in wallonia or in germany. it would be quite devastating, on a democratic level, if such a commitment were not followed by concrete actions on the part of the commission to support those affected and to show that europe is on the side of solidarity. it is in times of emergency. it must also be in these crucial moments of reconstruction for each and every one of us.
madam president, i’m glad that this debate is chaired by a woman standing proudly. this is not something that currently is happening in afghanistan, where women have to stay home, hide their bodies, and i’ve seen photos of women and men in a university separated by a curtain, and besides, women have to leave the class much earlier so that they don’t see or meet men, which means they are losing part of their education. i am very worried, just like all of us in here about what is happening in afghanistan and the eu and its member states must provide, of course, adequate humanitarian support and focus on women and girls. but at the same time, we must be careful not to legitimise this provisional government, full of macho men, who don’t know that women have a potential that the country could use. however, i’m also hearing that a deal is in the works with iran on hosting afghan refugees. so i’m asking you, who in this room is feeling comfortable about sending a woman or a girl who is running away from the taliban straight to the place where the ayatollahs are sitting? this will not be with my support because it’s bringing someone from hell to hell, and we cannot be complicit in that.
madam president, mr borrell, colleagues, extremists from the left and from the right have argued that going to afghanistan was illegal or selfish or imperialist. i disagree. it was in self-defence against international terrorism, but soon our involvement went astray. we must also confess that. in overshooting self-confidence instead of helping nation-building, we try to impose nation-building, and that did not succeed. and then the second major mistake was that we grew tired of the burden without thinking about our strategy. and after the west had invested trillions, we were too short-sighted to make the small additional investment that would have been necessary to keep the situation relatively stable. i think the withdrawal was a mistake. of course we should be able as europeans to hold an airport for a humanitarian evacuation, but that’s not the core problem. the tools and the means are not the core problem. the perspective and the will, that’s the core problem.
mr president, research shows that 99 per cent of afghans are in favour of the introduction of sharia. is it any wonder that the afghan army went up in smoke and the taliban took over the country in a flash? the afghans are not at all willing to fight for western human rights and democracy, because they simply do not believe in it. why should the hundreds of thousands of afghans now living in europe want to do that and want to adopt and defend our way of life? in fact, these asylum seekers are just going on holiday to afghanistan in the middle of a war. how much more obvious can asylum fraud get? millions of afghans are now threatened to come to europe. our people don't want that at all. so close the borders. these asylum seekers must be received in their own region. stop being naive . our people are sick of it and don't want to create another "we can do it".
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). all the more reason to approach such a neighboring country diplomatically. instead, they are threatening to impose a whole bunch of sanctions. russia does not want to bend to the left-liberal dogmas so do poland and hungary and therefore all the devils are unleashed. europe would do better to seek a good understanding. it is a huge country with enormous resources. with a wise approach, we could use our technology and our financial resources to create a formidable economic partnership that would benefit both sides. but they prefer to do business with, for example, fundamentalist gulf states or the communist regime in beijing. what hypocrisy and stupidity!
president. - i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs vautmans, for her work. this is a very important file. i agree with the outline and the critical tone of this report on an eu strategy towards china which takes account of the multifaceted nature of the eu's relations with china. it is therefore necessary that this strategy should propose means of action to respond to the different roles of china: cooperation and negotiation partner, economic competitor and systemic rival. cooperation should not exclude criticism of the human rights situation in china, human rights in hong kong, the treatment of our companies, chinese cyber attacks and attempts at cultural repression and the modern colonization of africa. i think, and i am afraid, that we will again be very strict in our words, but not enough in our actions. we have to be careful with that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr moreno sánchez, and all the colleagues from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) who have worked on this file for the constructive collaboration, because it has not been an easy file. it has cost some kind of blood, sweat and tears but, finally, we are going to vote for this tomorrow, and i am very proud of all of us. we have got things done. it’s also a balanced agreement so my party is also going to vote for this. it’s a good way to enable legal migration and to also show that the eu can be attractive for highly—qualified people who want to work here. our eu is in danger of missing the boat when it comes to attracting these highly talented and educated people, so we need to be innovative and this european blue card can do that. this reform can do that. i am pleased that the blue card will provide faster, easier and more inclusive access for these highly qualified people that, otherwise, the us, canada and the uk would take away from us. in addition, member states will still be able to retain their national systems for labour migration, and this is important because it will still allow each member state to take into account the reality of their own labour market. they will also use mechanisms that ensure that highly skilled non—eu workers are admitted only after the national database has been exhausted. the eu could not stay behind. the revision was very much needed and, of course, we have to thank our commissioner for speeding up the process. it has been a huge teamwork. at the beginning of a long road, we never know where we are going to end, but we can say that, when we work together and listen to each other, we can achieve bigger things.
president, commission president, you are quite right to focus on resilience, more investment, structural reforms and 5g, but the entire internal market must be completed with a very great deal of care for our smes. put subsidiarity and diversity at the heart of your policies. i'm afraid i haven't heard from him again. the eu must protect its citizens and its jobs. so i appreciate your strong commitment to cybersecurity, but we urgently need a final migration pact. we also urgently need instruments to combat dumping. finally, i call for even greater ambition for the eu as a global player. we must be the engine of multilateralism. we must conclude more free trade agreements and we must be the agents of peace and stability worldwide.
president roberta metsola, president ursula von der leyen, the speech by the president of the commission shows the difference that belonging to the european union makes. it was positive, it was optimistic, it was encouraging and it certainly has the support of the epp group and the portuguese epp members. it has made a strong defence of the rule of law here, especially with regard to funds and budgetary matters. but it is not enough to ensure that the funds are used in accordance with the values of the european union. we must also ensure that they are well spent, well applied, that they are not going to be spent on megalomaniacal works, on works that concentrate only on the most important region of the country or on works that serve only clienteles. it is therefore very important to monitor the use of funds to ensure that they are well spent. the plan is to revive the economy, to revive businesses, to give opportunities to young people, to have intergenerational solidarity. it is not to pay for the running costs of the budget, as is happening in some countries, including my own. it is not to be used as a weapon of election campaign, as the portuguese prime minister is now doing every day. the plan is not the plan of any party or any country, it is a european plan for europeans. it is important that the european commission is attentive to this, ensuring that funds are well used for the benefit of the digital transition, the ecological transition, the modernisation of economies and therefore prosperity and growth. i would like to draw your attention, madam president, to a fundamental point. at the moment, the price of energy is unbearable for businesses and households, in electricity and fuel. we want an ambitious green transition, an ambitious digital transition, but it needs to be socially sustainable. families and businesses expect this from europeans and expect this from our plan. i thank the commission for its strength and courage.
madam president, commissioners, in the last one and a half years we all lived under the dark shadow of the covid-19 crisis, but europe withstood it – we did fairly well. however, now we are entering the most important period – the period of delivery – because we have an unprecedented instrument in our hands. this is the next generation eu recovery package. but we need to work hard in order to make it a success, and there are three major criteria and preconditions to make it happen. first, we don’t need to come to the situation before the crisis. we need the recovery to lead to a sustainable development economy and society for europe, both environmentally and socially. second, if we want the green and digital transitions to be successful, we need to provide the tools to ensure that it is fair, and we need resources in order to make the buffers and protect those who will suffer. thirdly, the rule of law and democracy are of paramount importance for the socialists. you now, as the commission, have all the instruments to provide them in the use of the resources of the fund, so please use them. if we follow these three preconditions and criteria, i think that in one year we shall be even more optimistic about the future.
madam president, president von der leyen has today presented a list of ambitious plans, but in its current state, the european union cannot deliver. president von der leyen, we support most of your plans wholeheartedly, but intergovernmental europe is sclerotic and paralysed, and the european council has become the graveyard of many crucial initiatives. migration pact: stuck. geopolitics: europe is a midget. rule of law: talk, talk, no action, and europe is quietly but steadily losing ground in the global economy. the green deal is a great plan, but national governments have already started to unpick it. you mentioned, rightly, the lack of political will, but let me finish that sentence for you: the lack of political will of the national governments. yet the commission is making itself the most loyal servant of the council, while community europe has been losing ground. but dear colleagues, let’s also look at ourselves: if the commission is cosying up to the council, it’s because it smells where the power is, and it is up to this house to restore the democratic balance, the separation of powers, and checks and balances. parliament should not just be a good legislator, but also take its tasks as parliamentary watchdog more seriously, because our ambitions – the ambitions that we share – cannot be made reality with a limping democracy. this house has, therefore, to drastically up its game in the next couple of years, because only a strong political union can take europe forward.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe's green deal is without a doubt the biggest climate change programme ever put forward by an eu commission, indeed, an entire continent. but it is precisely after this summer of climate crisis that we need more speed and ambition. the central problem with europe's climate policy, however, is not a lack of announcements from brussels, but the huge deficit of willingness to act by the member states. when i look at germany, i see a huge gulf between german ambition and european ambition in climate policy. the federal government wants to push back the end of the internal combustion engine. it has not even implemented the eu's more citizen energy directive on renewables. and with nord stream 2, it's going a detour to more fossil gas. germany is slowing down europe's ambitions in climate policy. germany is slowing europe down to become the world's climate leader. and that is why we now need a german federal government for european climate protection, which will become a german climate government.
madam president, today the president of the european commission set out the agenda for the coming year. the agenda is hyper-ambitious. the president speaks of the team eu, but we have never been more divided. action is reaction. if the commission tries to force member states with legal actions, it will only create more opposition. you may not like or trust orbán or morawiecki, but the majority of voters do, and we have to respect democracy. second, transparency is key. every eu citizen should be able to see what’s going on. the technique is available. we can start tomorrow. finally, to create a real working union, we must connect in real life: free movement of persons by high speed rail. that creates a world of opportunity for all. it’s green, it’s accessible, and it’s safe. respect, transparency and tangible results. this will bring europe closer together.
president, madam president of the commission, you spoke about the floods and forest fires last summer. and rightly so, because they underline the need to act together against climate change. although fortunately no deaths were reported in the netherlands, the damage was also enormous. i mention the entrepreneurs in the grotestraat in valkenburg who were left to suffer the consequences of the coronavirus, families who thought they were insured but whose british insurance company lloyd's now refuses to pay, and vulnerable children whose children's centre and mythyl school in houthem had to be evacuated. madam president, this is not really a request to you, because the european commission has a solidarity fund for these situations. it is a call to my own government in the netherlands to make use of it too. and let me maybe take this image of a house that needs renovation and apply it to our european house, to our european union. in many areas, indeed, that house is strong. we added an extra room in the area of health when we faced an unprecedented health threat. but the house also needs a strong foundation: the rule of law, independent courts and independent media. i thank the commission for the initiatives announced in this area today. but like the pandemic, the rule of law is not a sprint but a marathon, and this house expects the european commission to go all the way. let me finalise today's contribution by saying that we also need to fix our roof when it isn't raining yet. i'm thinking about the creation of a capital markets union and the completion of the banking union, no matter how difficult that will be. so let's get to work.
madam president, madam president von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen, what would altiero spinelli and the founding fathers and mothers of european integration say, looking back on the last twenty years, starting with the explosion of globalisation and the attack on the twin towers and afghanistan? they would say: how much time did you lose while the world was running? but they would also tell us that today we are finally on the right track. the tragedies we have experienced have led to a reaction, and today we are working on the common debt and taxation, on reforming the budgetary rules. we have a massive vaccination campaign that must continue, as well as the construction of social europe, technological sovereignty, environmental transition, common defence, humanitarian corridors, protection of lgbt and women's rights. on all these issues you, mr president, have used courageous words, but we want to see them put into practice. if he does, he will have parliament on his side. a federal, solidarity-based and democratic europe may seem impossible, but it is not, as we heard from our bebe vio, so it can be done, indeed it must be done.
president, madam president of the commission, mrs von der leyen, you have made a very fine speech to us today. a speech of hope that doesn't shy away from the challenge. i heard a passionate woman with a heart for europe. but there's one thing i really missed in your speech that i expected from you. you're a former secretary of defense. you are the face of european security. you speak of a defence union. but to me, you're cold-blooded and you're not going far enough to that european army. whereas for me, this is the moment. i said it yesterday in the debate on afghanistan. if we do not move towards that european army now, when will we? we spend a lot on european defence, but each member state separately. we spend as much as china, we spend four times as much as russia. you know, this isn't against nato either. i do not agree at all with what jens stoltenberg said. on the contrary, a strong european pillar within nato will help us. i spoke with guy verhofstadt. one of the themes that will be raised at the conference on the future of europe is precisely that european army. so can i tell you one thing? let go of your fear of the cold, take that step, show women the power you have and go for that european army. we support you.
madam president, i guess we can be very proud of the things we have done last year. i just hope we saved more lives, reduced the suffering and saved some costs. but now we must face the future, and here i must say that i share and agree with the agenda, the programme presented by you, madam president, commented on by manfred weber and the others. and unlike a lot of people in this house, i believe we can deliver on this programme – if we want. let me share some points that were discussed, and i haven’t heard a lot of reaction in discussion. first, on microchips. here, i guess time is money, and we must find a way to help our researchers, investors and firms to increase our sovereignty and support our economy. the example to follow is not just galileo; it’s also the battery alliance, that i guess is doing very well. second, i was very pleased to hear that human rights are not for sale, as you said – at no cost. i guess yesterday was too late to make it more real. i guess to start with a ban on certain exports is the first step, but just the first step, and i guess we must deliver on that finally. last but not least, let me refer to next generation eu and rrf. i guess this was a very right decision at the right time. let me just remind the commission and council that there should be no space for corruption, conflicts of interests and wrongdoing. but we must make sure that money will deliver: that’s the key to turning this brave decision into success.
madam president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the state of the union has improved during the year thanks to the collective efforts of all of us. although europe is still recovering, we are on the path to overcoming the pandemic and economic recovery with the vaccination campaign and the implementation of the recovery plan. in short, europe is once again focusing on the future. a green, ecological and feminist future, with a transition that must be equitable territorially between the states and socially between all citizens. but, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis caused by the pandemic has been of such magnitude that the same rules do not serve us, not even in the economic sphere. that is why i support the proposal by spanish minister calviño that green and digital investments should not be counted in the deficit or the debt of the member states, and that the recovery fund should be permanent. let's go that way, please.
madam president, without you, without the commission, no member state could have vaccinated so many of its citizens. without you, without the commission, no member state could have supported its workers and its businesses with such intensity, such strength and such urgency. without you, there would be no meaningful recovery plan in the member states today. without you, the climate ambition would not have been raised and it was more than necessary. so, through our joint action - and you have indicated this morning - we must make every young european a top priority in the coming weeks and months. finally, to give a future to every young person, wherever they are, in the most remote village, in the most economically and socially desolate neighbourhood. that's our ambition. it is also through this that we will sow together the seeds of the european values that unite us. it is a matter of our european dignity and it also makes sense in relation to the policy we are pursuing, which you are pursuing. i am sure that in the coming weeks and months these concrete actions will make it possible to give every young person a training, a job; and also, of course, a future for each family. so let us leave the ministry of the word to the grumpy souls. in your action, continue to show responsibility, solidarity, courage and perhaps above all enthusiasm.
mr president, it is difficult to assess this whole debate in one minute, so i will allow myself to focus on one point. i have heard the far right in this house blame the european union's climate policy for the rise in electricity prices. i have to tell you something: don't make a mistake. you couldn't be more wrong. that's not the problem. the problem with the rise in electricity prices is that there are those who triple their profits at the expense of the pockets of citizens and users and, therefore, what we have to do is to be firm in defending the fight against climate change with the policies we have to put in place, but also to look for measures to balance the profits of companies with the real cost of electricity in the market. mrs. von der leyen, in conclusion, i think we have faced this covid crisis with courage. and courage is necessary, but not just in times of crisis. courage is needed to build a europe which is really on the side of the citizens. if you think we need to keep betting, you have the socialist and democratic group on that path.
mr president, madam president of the commission, i am pleased to say that this is the last time i shall be speaking. it has the support of our group to tackle very difficult challenges: to make the digital transition without large european digital companies; to make the green transition without causing energy poverty. the good news of the day is that parliament is back - parliament is back! - and so european democracy is safe. and i ask you: whatever we do, wherever we go, let us all bear in mind that what we need most is to recover the european spirit, the europeanist spirit. let us put our faith in europe back, or all we have said today will be empty words.
the debate is closed. this meeting is adjourned. the debate will continue at 3 p.m. with the debate on the report by mr sven giegold, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the implementation of the eu requirements for the exchange of tax information: progress, lessons learned and obstacles to be overcome (2020/2046 (ini)) (a9-0193/2021). the meeting is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the speech was realistic and focused on the most important issues vaccines and digital development. despite a troubled start, vaccines and digital certificates have been the success stories of this year's european year. estonia is lucky to be in the eu, we don't have to fight for vaccines like many other countries in the world. as a former commissioner for digital, i am pleased to see that digital issues are of paramount importance to ursula von der leyen. he spoke about the responsibility of digital platforms, a topic that i am currently working on in depth in the european parliament. the president linked digital developments to security. he stressed that we're too dependent on asia for our chips. europe must be able to produce its own chips and thus reduce its dependence on china. i've been stressing this for years about 5g security. the european commission is therefore particularly expected to take a legislative initiative in this respect. it was great for our region that von der leyen said directly - what is happening on the lithuanian border is a hybrid attack aimed at destabilizing europe. this is not a migration crisis. people are being put on planes and pushed to the borders of the european union. this is intolerable. the president made it clear that the european union stands with lithuania, latvia and poland against these attacks. this is a good example of defence cooperation already in place.
in writing. madam president, commission president, colleagues, as you mentioned in your speech, today not only europe but the whole world is still struggling with the consequences of the pandemic, and this fight is not over. this pandemic has completely changed our lives, and unfortunately, for most of us, it's only for the worse. the pandemic has highlighted structural problems in the eu and the member states, in particular in the social field. the pandemic hit those who had lower incomes, more menial and precarious jobs the hardest. these people were left without income and without any guarantee for the future. and the health care workers who saved lives, who unfortunately are among the lowest paid. yes, we must now concentrate on effectively revitalising the economies of the member states, but this recovery cannot be at the expense of the people. we must ensure that it is a socially oriented and sustainable recovery, with the human being at its core, with a decent job to enable people to live in dignity and provide for their families. we have to get children out of the cycle of poverty and social exclusion. the pandemic has further increased child poverty and exclusion, and distance learning has not ensured access to continuing education for children living in poverty during the quarantine. so there is a lot of work to be done, and i very much hope that the commission will understand and, most importantly, act.
in writing. the eu's motto is united in diversity! indigenous national minorities living in the union are part of a diverse society. more than a million of them called on the eu to create a legal framework to protect the rights of national and linguistic minorities, to avoid double standards when acting in the interests of a minority, while national minorities are protected only by council of europe directives. it is outrageous that the commission has nevertheless swept aside the minority safepack citizens' initiative for superficial, made-up reasons! the eu is not setting a good example in this area for its candidate or associated countries, and is imposing double standards on them. while strongly opposing abuses against the lgbtqi community, citing partnership agreements, they ignore violations against national minorities, e.g. in the case of ukraine, which continues to restrict the rights of national minorities. the education law of 2017, the language law of 2019, the law on the indigenous peoples of ukraine are trapping the country's national minorities in the trap of forced assimilation. the last hope of ukrainian minorities is the national communities act. however, she fears that this will only be a step backwards as ukrainian lawmakers try to circumvent international commitments to national minorities by creating new concepts that defy international norms. i ask the commission to put the protection of the rights of national minorities on its agenda, both inside and outside the eu.
in writing. the state of the union is a landmark moment for the european union, a time when we assess the past and set the goals that will help us build a better future for future generations. it was a difficult year, which left deep marks on our society. the covid-19 pandemic, brexit and the economic downturn are just some of the main challenges facing the european union. however, the eu is a world leader in vaccination rates and at the same time has made half of its vaccine production available outside the eu. climate change is also a constant problem at european level, defining both our past and our future. the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 remains a clear objective. however, it remains crucial how we will be able to support businesses to make the transition so that we do not witness a relocation of economic activities from european countries to non-european countries. recent history has shown us that we must create new, well-paying jobs and protect existing ones. to succeed in meeting its objectives, the european union must have a strong voice.
in writing. madam president, the workers are the great forgotten ones in this speech. a courtesy note, that's all. you think wages are a detail, pensions an economic problem. proof that making $30,000 a month totally disconnects you from reality. we should soon be celebrating 30 years of the internal market, you say. it'll be a chance to measure the joy of our public services destroyed and privatized, i suppose? on vaccines, you claim that the eu has supplied vaccines to the world. in fact, the union has mostly sold it, often to the richest countries, while you prevent other countries from producing it. then we'll talk about the weather. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. from a climate standpoint, this is criminal. and what is the lesson that you have learned from 20 years of military intervention in afghanistan and a disaster without a name? more military intervention, more bombs and more wars. frankly, your european union, built by the states at the request of the european bosses, is a social disaster and a climate failure.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the pegasus spyware scandal, revealed once again by journalists and ngos, we are entering a new era of surveillance. surveillance that escapes the control of public authorities and becomes the work of private companies whose profit-seeking makes them accomplices of governments, of unscrupulous regimes. journalists, political opponents, human rights defenders, lawyers, politicians, including a former mep, have been targeted for espionage and repression. any one of us could have been on that list. the israeli company that markets the software presents it as a decisive tool, exclusively intended for the fight against terrorism and organized crime. it was probably diverted from its original surveillance purposes, in violation of fundamental rights, but also outside any legal framework. this parliament is currently working on the establishment of a regulatory framework for technologies that are intended to combat crime. here is a frightening example of the risks inherent in these instruments. the european union is also working with the states involved in the scandal through police and judicial cooperation. are we really prepared to enter into cooperation agreements with states that spy on us? we demand a moratorium on the export, sale, transfer and use of these surveillance technologies. we demand protection and reparation for the victims. responsibility must be established and the european response must be commensurate with the gravity of the facts.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we are finally discussing this case in this parliament now, the pegasus scandal. what would be the difference, when a spyware can activate the camera and microphone on your phone and make new recordings, if someone just entered your house and watched what you do and say during your private time? what would be the difference if someone entered your office and attended all your confidential meetings, listening, watching and even making recordings? worldwide, the smartphones of politicians, lawyers, journalists and human rights activists have been hacked with software, and even european leaders – we have spoken about president macron here today. this is very scary. it’s not only dangerous for our personal lives, it’s also dangerous for our democracies and for freedom. we need to share the values that we have in europe across the world and build a global framework for data protection, a global framework for respecting privacy. i also believe that the way in which some companies are treating data should make us think of how we need to deal with them.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law plays a crucial role in ensuring the protection of the other fundamental values of the union, such as democracy and fundamental rights. similarly, freedom of the press and pluralism in the media are essential to democracy, as president ursula von der leyen said this morning in her state of the union address. i have always been very clear that the commission will not hesitate to take all the necessary measures to ensure the implementation of european law and respect for the rule of law, and as justice commissioner i will do my utmost to defend the independence of the judiciary. the commission acted decisively as guardian of the treaties last week, in view of the developments in poland over the summer, and i am pleased that the council has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the as indicated in the introduction, last week the commission took two important decisions to ensure the implementation of the two july rulings of the court of justice. as the president of the commission said this morning in this parliament in her state of the union speech, our values are guaranteed by our legal order and safeguarded by the judgments of the european court of justice. these judgments are binding. we make sure that they are respected and we do so in every member state of our union. as regards poland, let me briefly recall that the commission is of the opinion that poland failed to take the necessary measures to comply fully with the two judgments that the european court of justice issued in july. in this respect, we also see developments on the ground which are particularly worrying. the actions of the polish authorities continue to undermine the independence of the polish justice system. last week, on 7 september, the commission therefore took two separate decisions to ensure the implementation of the rulings that the court of justice issued in july. i also need to underline that the commission's concerns regarding the polish authorities' repeated questioning of the primacy of eu law are present, and it was described in our introduction today. this concerns the decision of the polish constitutional tribunal of 14 july, which found orders of the court of justice of interim measures in the area of justice to be ultra vires. i addressed this issue in the letter that i sent to the polish authorities in july. i had also written to the polish authorities on the motion of the polish prime minister to the constitutional tribunal, in which the principle of the primacy of eu law has been questioned. other motions of this kind are also pending before the constitutional tribunal. in view of these developments, i regret to conclude that the situation of the rule of law in poland continues to be a source of serious concern. i can only reiterate, as i have made clear several times before you, that eu law has primacy over national law and that all decisions of the european court of justice, including orders for interim measures, are binding on all member state authorities and national courts, including constitutional courts. in that regard, i also recall that the concerns regarding the legitimacy and independence of the polish constitutional tribunal, as set out in the reasoned proposal of the commission triggering the article 7 procedure, have still not been resolved. ladies and gentlemen, the commission remains committed to using all the instruments at its disposal to defend the rule of law and to respond swiftly and effectively to any breach of that rule of law. you can be assured of my personal commitment to this and you heard this morning the firm commitment of the president of the commission and the commission as a whole to this. for my part, i will of course go to poland to discuss with the polish parliament and civil society the situation of the rule of law in poland. some of you have raised the question of budgetary conditionality. i would like to point out that the president of the commission announced this morning that the first written communications will be sent in the coming weeks. some of you also touched on the recovery plans. in general, i would like to emphasize what the president of the commission said this morning, namely that each of these plans is evaluated on the basis of the country-specific recommendations of the european semester. these country-specific recommendations, where relevant in relation to the independence of the judiciary, are taken into account by the commission in its assessment. i would like to remind you again that the commission remains fully committed to interinstitutional dialogue on the rule of law and i remain of course at the disposal of your parliament to continue our regular exchanges on the subject. we have already exchanged views on the first report on the rule of law in the union. we are now discussing the second report, which the commission adopted on 20 july. and as you heard this morning, the annual report next year will take up one of your parliament's requests and will include country-specific recommendations in a very explicit way. i really believe that through all these actions we are taking all the steps necessary to ensure that the rule of law is respected, in poland as elsewhere in the european union. i would like to repeat that it is legitimate for a member state to disagree with the european commission. but once the court of justice has ruled, it is a binding decision which must be enforced by all the authorities in all the member states.
the chairman of the council. president! ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! my dear commissioner! i would like to reassure you that the presidency and the council attach great importance to the protection of freedom of thought and expression. freedom of opinion and expression are preconditions for pluralism, media freedom, respect for the rule of law and protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. the institutions of the european union and the member states share the responsibility to respect, protect and promote our common values as enshrined in the treaties. we believe that preventive and other measures in the area of the rule of law will together contribute to strengthening our common values and co-shaping the culture of the rule of law in the european union. the presidency will pay particular attention to the views expressed in today's debate. thank you so much!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 16 september 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. for the first time in this institution, the european left and liberals are attacking poland in a scandalous way. this time it is about the media law and the polish government's questions to the constitutional court on the supremacy of the constitution over eu law. these actions of the polish authorities are in full accordance with the democratic mandate won in the elections. therefore, the attack by the eu institutions on poland is a purely political attack and not a legal dispute. we cannot accept that the commission and parliament are applying double standards. in particular, the polish government has proposed new radio and television rules that would prohibit entities from outside the european economic area (eea) from holding more than 49% of the shares of polish media companies. similar decisions are used in other eu countries, such as denmark, which recently adopted similar legislation. the same can be said of the legal primacy of national constitutions over eu law. poland has the right to refer such a question to its constitutional court. other member states followed suit. in 2005 and 2020, the federal constitutional court of germany recognised the supremacy of the german constitution over eu law, but no one here took any special measures for this reason. the actions against poland are in breach of the treaties, including article 5 teu, and the european union is exceeding its competences.
the next item is the debate on the report by malin björk and diana riba i giner, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the definition of gender-based violence as a new area of crime under article 83 (1) of the treaty on european union (2021/2035 (inl)) (a9-0249/2021).
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. colleagues on the ground and you who follow from afar! one in three women in the eu has been subject to physical or sexual violence, and an average of 50 women die every week as a result of gender-based violence. gender-based violence restricts our space, reduces our lives and takes lives. violence and threats of violence constrain life in homes, in public spaces, in schools, on streets, in squares, in social media. it is a structural problem, and it is one of the most serious human rights violations we have to face. this house, the european parliament, has been a driving force in every step the eu has taken to combat gender-based violence. so is this. this time, together with my co-rapporteur, diana riba i giner, who will speak after me, i have had the opportunity to hold the pen and negotiate another strong position and concrete demands on how to combat gender-based violence. we are demanding european legislation. it is not the first time this parliament has done so, but we will do it again. anything else is not sustainable. but we also say that a criminal law and justice system is only part of the equation. we affirm that the fight against gender-based violence cannot be seen separately from the fight for gender equality and the work for women's rights, in all sectors of society. gender-based violence is intimately linked to patriarchal structures, inequality between women and men, lack of economic independence for women and lack of justice. our report states that to combat gender-based violence we must have the right to decide about our bodies and our sexuality. we need access to free abortion and contraception. our report also states that we must ensure that all our actions are aimed at strengthening women's rights and taking control of our lives. we need to get the right support and service. we affirm that the women's journeys, which are a pillar in the fight against violence against women and girls, should be given permanent support. we say that the justice system needs to be so much better that the justice system is delivering convictions so that we slowly but surely, but everywhere and in all parts, actually put the blame where it belongs: on the perpetrators. we must therefore have legislation based on consent. we also state in our report that gender-based violence affects lgbtq people and that this must be included in the fight against gender-based violence. we are clearly saying that the threats and hatred and violence against lgbtq people also stem from patriarchal and sexist notions oppressive notions of how we must be as human beings and where those who violate heteronormative demands are threatened and subjected to violence. we say that this violence can and must be fought as part of the framework of gender-based violence. one would think that everyone is on board, that no one is against this, that everyone wants to take action and fight this violence. but there are those who are not on the train, who still want to control women's lives and bodies, who think it's okay to limit our lives in this way. sometimes they give other reasons, but basically they don't think it's important enough. but they won't defeat us. every step forward has been a struggle. feminists, activists, organizations, survivors themselves are the ones who have been pushing, along with parliamentarians, allies in parliament, to tighten laws. so today. i would like to thank all the tireless feminists who have worked with us, who have supported us and who are making sure that there is action in the parliamentary chambers too. now we are adopting this report, sending a signal to the commission, and together we are making sure that the eu is doing more and better, that the member states are doing more and better, because we are saying stop to gender-based violence.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for your work on this report. in line with the president’s political guidelines, we committed ourselves to launching a strategy for gender equality in the eu that would include the fight against gender-based violence, as it is a widespread violation of fundamental rights and must be addressed on a common basis at eu level. the commission stands by its commitments. in the past two years, together with my fellow commissioners and under the lead of president von der leyen, we adopted several union of equality strategies, including the eu gender equality strategy. in 2016, the commission proposed the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention and signed the convention in june 2017. since then, however, the accession remains blocked in council. this is why, as the president stated this morning, we are presenting legislative measures to achieve the objectives of the istanbul convention within the limits of the eu competences. we will propose concrete measures by the end of this year. they will be composed of two initiatives. the first initiative is a broad directive on gender-based violence and domestic violence, with a focus on prevention, protection, support and access to justice. it will include the criminalisation of specific forms of gender-based violence and domestic violence on the basis of the existing euro-crimes. the second initiative aims to trigger a council decision to extend the list of euro-crimes to include hate crime and hate speech. of course, the council will then need to decide by unanimity. if this is achieved, the commission would be able to propose an eu-level criminalisation of hate crime on grounds of sexual orientation, amongst other grounds. with these two initiatives, that will be adopted as a package by the end of this year, and we will achieve to a large extent the objectives pursued by parliament. concretely, the directive on gender-based violence will cover targeted criminalisation of specific conduct such as, for instance, serious forms of online violence. it will therefore fill the most important gaps in member states’ legislation and ensure that the most serious forms of gender-based violence are criminalised in the eu. the proposal will include specific measures on prevention of violence, protection and support of victims, including, of course, the most vulnerable victims. it will address the intersection of sex with other grounds of anti-discrimination included in the treaties. in addition to that, the extension of the list of euro-crimes will provide a new legal basis for proposing additional criminalisation. once this new legal basis is established, we will be able to continue filling the gaps in the future in relation to criminalisation of misogynistic hate crime and hate speech. this package will deliver on your requests. it will allow for swift action that should be adopted within the current mandate period. let us not keep the victims waiting.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the country, and the commission has already taken action to combat it. one out of three. just because they're women. the annual cost of gender-related violence is estimated at 290 billion euros. behind all those numbers are stories and broken or stolen lives of women, mothers, daughters and friends. fellas, i want to be crystal clear. gender-based violence should be added to the list of criminal offences in article 83 tfeu. we therefore support the main objective of this report and consider the fight against gender-based violence as one of our top priorities. and yes, we support the directive which transposes the international standards of the istanbul convention. today, commission president von der leyen made it very clear that the commission will be proposing a law to combat violence against women by the end of the year. we shall vote in favour of the commission's proposal. however, this parliamentary report goes beyond national competence and undermines our common objective. commissioner, you yourself said that we must take account of powers in this matter. the fact is that we need unanimity in the council to add gender-based violence to article 83. it will not come if we simultaneously demand that the refusal of abortion be labeled as gender-based violence. that is why we have amended the text, despite our strong support for the political objective itself. so yes, we will respond positively to the commission's proposal and to the addition of gender-based violence to article 83 of the treaty. but this is our position.
mr president, first of all, i would like to say that i am really glad to see how much political support this subject got in this room. at the same time, i am very disappointed that despite this broad horizontal consensus, the commission continues to act behind closed doors and ignores all our calls for full transparency when it comes to vaccines. this is a legitimate call and, in this limited time, i will only focus on two points. first, the commission invested a huge amount of eu money to fund research, and the development and acquisition of these vaccines. eu money is taxpayers’ money. eu money is citizens’ money. we cannot accept that, at a critical and unprecedented time as during a pandemic, the european commission decides to deliberately ignore the right of citizens to have access to information. transparency is a key principle, and it is key because it reinforces public scrutiny and trust over what the institutions are doing. in this particular case, all this opacity, all this secrecy, not only undermines the trust of our citizens, but it also leads to uncertainty, disinformation and, even more seriously, to the risk of vaccine hesitancy. is the commission considering this aspect? is it aware of the long-term consequences of its choice? secondly, as a directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, we members of the european parliament are called on to exercise democratic oversight over the eu budget, to make sure that the commission and all the other institutions are dealing with european funds properly. since the outbreak of the pandemic, this has not been possible and, as a member of this institution, i honestly have the feeling that i cannot exercise this obligation the way it should be done. i can understand that the negotiations to secure vaccines for all eu member states were unprecedented. i also acknowledge the challenges that the commission might have faced. but today, exactly one year after the start of the crisis, we can no longer accept this secrecy. i cannot accept that our multiple requests continue to be ignored. i cannot accept it as a citizen, and i cannot accept it as a member of this parliament.
mr. chairman, commissioner, it's very funny that you're into handcraft and knitting. ladies and gentlemen, there have undoubtedly been many mistakes in the management of the health crisis, but as far as vaccines are concerned, the process of developing, purchasing and distributing these vaccines, i think that the big responsibility lies with the european commission and the way it tried to reach people. each of our countries has its own specifics and in each of our countries there is a different way in which you have to talk, in which you have to convince people. but that didn't happen. this should show us that the approach of common solutions, so devised somewhere in a cabinet, without taking into account the national states and their capabilities and peculiarities is wrong. you'll say that the claim is speculative, but i'll refute it. at the start of the campaign, the commission published its contract with one of the companies that developed the vaccine. so did britain. the difference in the volume and detail of the two contracts is impressive. astra zeneca with the european union 18 articles and 34 pages, while the uk 31 articles and 46 pages. the two texts differ in their key points. we all remember the brexit debate. we all know what the mood was against the leaveers, but somehow it became clear that those who were against the bureaucracy in the union were more likely to be right. once again, in a crisis, the union has acted clumsily, incompetently and this has affected the health of the people. in britain, they vaccinated people in droves and turned stadiums into vaccination centers. this was just starting to happen with us. and that is a problem. imagine the delay we're talking about, when macron himself, who is the leader of this federalist group, admitted his mistake. i'll give you another example with hungary, which, as they say, is also very profanity in this room. hungary refused to follow the pan-european lines and did its job much faster. strong nation states have been able to cope more quickly and more organized. in a few months, it will be a year since the start of mass vaccination, and it will be very clear what the difference is between one country and another. what we need to know is that we need to find quick solutions, not run away on some other issue like this. i heard you, chairman.
mr president, the vaccine contracts are being kept a terrible secret. however, we have been able to lift a tip of the veil and understand that pfizer and moderna are raising their prices by 20 and 13 percent respectively. so we are paying more for the third dose than the first, while the cost of production of these companies is actually falling. the production capacity of the companies has been largely built up with public money, but we are still paying. how the hell did this get negotiated? the companies involved are already making hundreds of millions in profits, but we're paying more as their costs fall. this doesn't make any sense. you used public money to fund, buy and purchase the vaccines, among other things. you've transferred the investment risk to us, but you've asked nothing in return from the big pharmaceutical companies. you basically said: you set the price and the quantity of production and we'll pay. this is financial mismanagement and an attack on our social security. and many countries cannot afford to do so, so they are without vaccines. as a result, new variants are emerging and the pandemic continues to creep in. the british medical journal called it a crime against humanity. you're an accessory to that. stop this, share the vaccine technology and cancel the patents.
mr president, my colleague michèle rivasi's excellent report points out the inconsistencies in our european policies and their decisive impact on our partners in the south. our development policies, whether they are climate, agriculture or trade, must have one single objective: the achievement of the sustainable development goals. however, the european commission does not sufficiently integrate the impact of trade agreements on biodiversity when negotiating with countries such as indonesia, brazil and others. it is worth mentioning that the amazon is home to exceptional flora and fauna, that it now emits more co2 than it stores, and that it is home to endangered indigenous peoples. the consequences of the eu's trade policy - co2 emissions, increased agro-industrial practices, deforestation, land grabbing and pesticide use - are devastating for biodiversity and local communities. europe must therefore put its trade at the service of sustainable development and the well-being of its people, not the other way around.
the next item is the report by mrs elena kountoura, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the eu road safety policy framework for the period 2021-2030 recommendations for the next steps towards vision zero road traffic costs (2021/2014(ini)) (a9-0211/2021).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, on behalf of commissioner vălean, who was unable to be here this evening, the commission very much welcomes this important report on road safety, and would like to thank ms kountoura and the committee on transport and tourism for their continued strong support for our work on road safety. while the number of road deaths fell by an unprecedented 17% in 2020, this was due largely to lower traffic volumes as a result of the pandemic. the figure of 19 000 fatalities across the eu remains unacceptably high. in the sustainable and smart mobility strategy, the commission reiterated its commitment to implementing the eu road safety policy framework and bringing down to close to zero the death toll for all modes of transport. however, i want to stress that the vision zero is a joint responsibility. success will depend on all of us playing our part from european, national and regional and local authorities, to police and health services, from all road users, employers to bike share operators, to car makers. we all have an interest in making our roads safer in partnership. i can assure you the commission is working very closely with the member states to ensure an effective implementation of the safe-system approach throughout europe. ms kountoura’s report includes a number of constructive proposals and recommendations to which the commission will give due consideration. i shall highlight a few of these issues. the commission fully agrees that road safety is an integral part of sustainable and smart mobility. there can be no sustainability without safety. as we build transport infrastructure, we need it to be both green and safe. when we improve the infrastructure for cyclists and pedestrians for instance, we both encourage reduction of our carbon footprint, healthy active mobility and we make it safer. indeed, as the eu becomes more urban, road safety is becoming increasingly an urban question, and vulnerable road users, pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists now account for 70% of traffic fatalities in our cities. much of our current focus is on preparing a new legislative package, including revisions of the driving licence directive and the directive on cross-border enforcement of traffic rules. we will also update the rules on roadworthiness where we will be looking both at emissions and safety elements, as well as odometer fraud. and we are also looking closely into factors such as speed and alcohol consumption and reflecting on possible eu recommendations to address them. more specifically on speed, we take note of the parliament’s position and the strong engagement of stakeholders at global and local level. we are looking very closely into this issue, in particular assessing the gains for road safety in those european cities which set a maximum speed of 30 km per hour in residential areas. we are also working closely with our partners to ensure that eu funding can be targeted towards road safety projects. of course, better infrastructure is a key factor in improving road safety. we have encouraged investment in road safety upgrades as part of the recovery and resilience facility. european investment bank loans, structural and cohesion funds and the connecting europe facility also provide additional avenues to incentivise actions in this field. the commission is also grateful to the european parliament for its support for the european road safety exchange, which is a twinning project bringing safety professionals from different eu member states together to help address specific road safety problems. the feedback today has been very positive. we are making good progress on establishing a first set of key road safety performance indicators based on a common methodology, and we expect the first set of results next year. we look forward to engaging with the member states and the parliament to help shape future work. we have also relaunched an important european road safety tool, the european road safety charter. this is a huge network of over 3 000 people, organisations, civil society and companies with an interest in road safety. it offers a perfect opportunity to share and reward good practice and to learn from each other. the 2021 eu road safety awards ceremony will take place on 18 november, and parliament is invited to help us make this event a real success. the commission fully shares the need for eu road safety policy to be adaptable to change, in particular with regard to the development of automated vehicles. an eu partnership under horizon europe on connected, cooperative and automated mobility has been set up to promote and facilitate large-scale testing in this field. our goal is to enable the safe introduction of automation on eu roads. the work of the partnership will go hand-in-hand with policy and legislative updates needed to take full advantage of these developments for safer, more sustainable and inclusive mobility. the commission takes note of your proposals for staging a european year of road safety and the creation of a new agency for road transport. we recognise the potential benefits of both, but also need to consider the costs, of course. we will continue to reflect on these options and report back to you on progress achieved. once again, i thank the rapporteur, ms kountoura, and the shadows for preparing this important report, and the commission looks forward to its adoption in plenary later this week.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, madam rapporteur, first of all, thank you for your openness during the discussions and debate; we have been used to working together, particularly on the 'technical control' report and the whole package that went with it. the 20 000 people, the 20 000 families that are affected in europe every year, which is a little more than a town like mine, obviously affects us all deeply. there is a great disparity at european level in road safety. if we look at the figures more closely, we see that although there has been a decline in recent years, it is not the same everywhere, firstly, and above all, that there is a ratio of one to four times more accidents between the best country, sweden, and those that are less good in road safety. four times more accidents, four times more victims. therefore, beyond the obvious: reducing speed, reducing drug and alcohol consumption at the wheel, being extremely strict and repressive in this area, but also educational, of course, and this is largely reflected in the report: i think we must go ahead in sharing good practice and implementing it in all the member states: this is the ambition that the commission must have: the good practice that has proven itself in different member states. it is in this spirit of collaboration that the union, together with the commission, can effectively provide solutions in the field of road safety. this will be done with the various elements i have indicated, but also with new elements, i am thinking in particular of the power of vehicles and we will find an alliance between safety and the environment because it also represents a danger for all users, especially pedestrians and cyclists. we must therefore act upstream on the production of vehicles that can prevent this type of accident. finally, and this is my conclusion, we must all together have the capacity to strengthen road safety throughout europe, in all our territories and especially in rural areas, for young people and for all our inhabitants.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, ‘the united states are back’, said president biden after his election. i dream of the day when the eu can say, ‘the eu is back’. i am still dreaming. some thought that the eu would fall back romantically into america’s arms after trump’s defeat, but they were so wrong. i would rather describe it as a terrible, terrible one-night stand. the times of multilateralism, the obama era, seem totally over. it remains ‘america first’. of course. we should quickly get used to this and act accordingly. why does the eu not pick its own side right now? how can the eu become a relevant partner on the world stage but also a strong advocate of multilateralism? these questions should be a priority for every european leader. no more embarrassment because of an australia–united kingdom–united states (aukus) affair or a chaotic withdrawal from afghanistan. we must defend our principles and stand up for the european people. to make that possible, the eu has to look at how to build up our strategic autonomy and regain diplomatic respect and dignity. only then will we be able to earn a seat at any table. it’s high time to go up on the global stage. so tonight in slovenia, the 27 member states must deliver, and not just have dinner.
we welcome the first agreements in principle reached at the trade and technology council. it is good that it could take place in circumstances that are not so obvious. the united states remains our most important partner. first, however, we must eliminate the friction, such as the levies on aluminium and steel and the limited access of our companies to the american market and to public contracts. we also need to work on an agreement on a carbon cap tax. the united states must now also make clear whether it is prepared to work with us and with other partners to save and modernise the world trade organisation. finally, we really hope that there will be agreement on the new economy with common standards for artificial intelligence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to restore confidence and give a new meaning to globalisation, transatlantic cooperation must also take place on the human rights front. this is what the picula report proposes by developing a common toolbox. in this context, there is an urgent need to tackle the eradication of child labour. for the first time in 20 years, child labor has increased worldwide. 160 million children were working in 2020, or one in ten children. eight million more children could be working by the end of next year due to the pandemic. the united states has long had an arsenal of measures to punish companies guilty of employing children. the european union, which imports €50 billion worth of products from child labour, will introduce legislation on corporate social responsibility next year. while together they account for 30% of global imports, trade sanctions and aid to countries where endemic poverty is the cause of child labour are urgently needed. the commission must use all the levers at its disposal, including the next trade and technology council, to bring to fruition the zero tolerance announced by president von der leyen more than two years ago.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam commissioner, our relations with the united states are a central pillar of our security, of the defence of democracies in the world, of the articulation of multilateral spaces and of the regulation of trade and technology. and any relationship, for it to work, has to be based on mutual respect, on autonomy and on trust, on mutual trust. and also any relationship, for it to work, has to be based on the recognition of reality. and the reality is that the united states is making the strategic decision to withdraw from central asia and the middle east; that, at the same time, it is articulating a web of security alliances beyond nato: the five eyes, aukus, the quad, to focus on what is in its primary interest: containing china. and they're making these important decisions without us. all this should lead us to strengthen the relationship we have, of course, with the united states, but also to push ourselves, of course, to have our own capabilities, our own alliances and, of course, our own positions in the world to defend our interests and our values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have two points of view in analysing what is happening in relations between europe and the united states. the first is commercial. eurostat tells us that for the first time in 2020, relations with china are higher than relations with the united states, but with one difference: europe exports far more to the united states than it does to china. so he has more leverage in his relationship with the united states. the second point is the defence, which has been mentioned many times. in afghanistan we had evidence of a shared mistake, so much so that the us reaction was to question the relationship with us through the aukus agreement with the uk and australia. but let 's not kid ourselves . our autonomy will not come from further separation from the united states. our autonomy, especially in foreign and defence policy, is based on mature membership of nato, not on division. we trust in the traditional family that binds the european union and the united states of america: this is the west.
mr president, (inaudible) important report. the eu—us relationship follows from a historic alliance between the us and the european nations. it has contributed to peace and prosperity on both sides and in the world at large. now it needs to be rewired. the us and the eu have a different institutional political profile and different competences. their relationship is not like a marriage, and it cannot be symmetrical, nor purely reciprocal. but problems of trust and reliability are becoming paramount. to resolve them, we need to decide on the method and on what compass the renewal of the eu—us partnership should be based. on shared values, on converging interests or on both? but is on both sensible? if i understand the resolution correctly, for instance, would it not lead the eu to blindly side with the us in some race with china, and could it hustle the eu into some premature defence union? given the present nature and competences of the eu, would it not be better to focus first on the many converging interests that exist between the eu and the us to renew the relationship between the two?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, who would believe that we could succeed in the climate challenge without a strong agreement with the united states? who would believe that we could face an invading china without a strong bond with the americans? who can believe - i heard it this morning - that china or russia have values closer to ours than our american friends - values of democracy and freedom? but who can believe that we will be respected by the united states unless we have a strong strategy for defence and security and unless we have our own destiny and future in our own hands? yes, the united states has flaws - sometimes an ally can go wrong; we saw this in the submarine case - but we also have some flaws: sometimes a lack of solidarity, a lack of unity. we must address this through this european strategy, in particular defence and security.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, ‘now that everything is connected, everything can be hacked’, said president von der leyen in this hemicycle just three weeks ago. we all know she’s right. we all know how vulnerable we are today and have been recently. smart, active, fast, creative: sadly, this is not how we can define our way of fighting cyber-criminality. those words are describing the entities behind the cyber-attacks. they are smart. they have the knowledge and know-how to transform strategies into actions in that domain. they are fast, running on a cyber-highway, and know how to adapt faster than we can for the moment. this report is a strong wake-up call, and i would like to thank the rapporteur mr paet and fellow shadow rapporteurs for this important work. actually, i am also sad that we needed a report to show what everyone can see. today, developing a european cyber-defence policy should provide us with better protection against the newest method of warfare. we have very high expectations from the french presidency so that we can protect european citizens against these new threats.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the price of natural gas has gone up over 400 percent from january of this year to september of this year, in less than a year. energy prices are now reminiscent of the energy crisis of the 1970s, which i think we all remember well. and what is the reason for this enormous burden that will be placed on the people of europe, especially in winter? what's the reason? is it the russian bear again, that evil russian bear, who now has to pay for everything because he blackmails europe to get his pipeline started? or is it too little renewable energy, as some in this room claim - renewable energy, mind you, highly subsidized, which is also taxed over the price of electricity? but i'm guessing it's all to do with something else. at least a significant part of the prices we have now is due to carbon trading. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented. since march 2020, the price here has quadrupled, esteemed colleagues. and of course, these costs are passed on to the consumers in europe. the republic of austria, for example, has already collected over 300 million euros this year from the trading of allowances. and i think it's not very sensible to maximize revenue while the citizens of your own country are freezing. i think it is urgently necessary to introduce a price freeze to regulate this market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have taken exceptional measures against the pandemic, we have shown the whole world that europe exists and is capable of handling emergencies in a unified and authoritative manner. we must now respond with the same vigour to another emergency, that of the 250% increase in gas from january to today: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented. in an immediate response, governments must immediately provide loans and vouchers for the most vulnerable, reduce taxes for businesses, freeze prices for consumers, but it is not enough: we need the strength of the european union. first of all: the commission must allow fiscal leeway to reduce the burden of the bills. secondly: we must postpone the entry into force of all those measures which could further increase energy prices. thirdly: we need to accelerate the environmental transition by focusing on renewables, on energy efficiency, as italy is doing with the 110% super bonus. my colleagues, only renewable energy will make us independent of the price of fossil fuels. let's look to the future and bet on clean energy!
madam president, i will speak in romanian. – doamnă președintă, doamnă comisar, creșterea prețurilor la energie afectează toate statele membre ale uniunii europene, iar țara mea, românia, riscă să fie, în mod substanțial, afectată. știm care sunt problemele, de unde provin aceste creșteri, s-au amintit și astăzi, fie că vorbim de fluctuațiile prețurilor la gaz, scăderea producției interne, infrastructura învechită, nevoia crescută de importuri și, de aici, jocul pe care gazprom îl joacă pentru a crește profiturile și pentru a crește dependența unor țări din uniunea europeană de resursele sale, speculațiile pe schema de certificate verzi, pe schema de comercializare a emisiilor care a făcut să urce prețul la începutul lunii septembrie. pe termen mediu, avem soluții pentru că măsurile din „fit for 55”, eficiența energetică și producția tot mai mare din surse regenerabile vor duce la o stabilitate a pieței, la prețuri mai mici la energie și la independența energetică. trebuie însă să acționăm imediat pentru această iarnă și salut pachetul de măsuri pe care comisia îl va prezenta săptămâna viitoare. sunt sigur că vom avea o discuție foarte interesantă cu doamna comisar simson în comisia itre. sper ca acest pachet să aducă soluții concrete, rapid implementabile, o definiție europeană a consumatorului vulnerabil, susținerea din fonduri europene a efortului statelor membre, achiziția centralizată de gaze într-o platformă europeană; în mod evident, putem vorbi de reducerea tva, taxele și accizele la energie. cel mai important mesaj este că cetățenii europeni nu sunt singuri în fața acestui tsunami: cu angajament ferm și nu șovăielnic, cu implicarea fiecăruia dintre noi, cu decizii echilibrate la nivel european și național, vom reuși.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned about the rise in energy prices. we are concerned about the impact on the most vulnerable sections of the population, but we are also concerned that rising utility bills could undermine the competitiveness of european companies and jeopardise economic recovery in europe. but we are starting to say clearly and unequivocally that the increase in energy costs is not due to the transition to climate neutrality, but is linked to a series of concauses starting with the increase in global energy demand, not followed by a parallel increase in supply, which has drastically increased gas prices. it has already been mentioned that the european union is totally affected by market dynamics and their effects, because it is dependent on imports for 90% of its gas consumption, which is still one of the primary sources of our energy mix. that is why we must move forward without further delay, towards a green deal and the growth of renewable energy production, because they allow us to manage our energy production independently and thus have a more stable price, accessible to all and combat energy poverty. in the meantime, national measures are not enough to curb the costly bills, but europe must provide targeted support for those who cannot pay their bills, and a concrete, common european plan for gas is urgently needed: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of gas supply in the community, from the creation of a european gas purchasing platform to the prospect of common storage for a european strategic reserve. these are initiatives which must be put into place as soon as possible we await the commission's package of measures and which cannot, and must not, make us lose sight of the objectives of the green deal: the increase in renewables, green hydrogen, real investment in energy efficiency are and remain the path to an economically and above all socially sustainable energy system.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i draw three lessons from this debate and from this crisis. the first is that there is a very large majority in this parliament who say that this crisis must help to accelerate the green deal, to accelerate the deployment of renewables and to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. it is very important that there is this very broad political consensus - you also said that, commissioner, that is the commission's position - because it did not exist before. so we need to seize this crisis to accelerate the transition to more renewable and energy efficient energy and less dependence on fossil fuels. the second lesson is that i am surprised that no one is asking who has benefited from the increase in energy prices. we all know, as political leaders, who lost, but who won? who made excess profits, who sold at the spot market at astronomical prices, without any comparison with their production costs? i look to the european commission to shed light on this debate. what is the total additional tax revenue for the member states? what are the revenues from the increase in the price of carbon, far beyond what we ourselves anticipate? these debates must take place around a table so that the rents and surpluses that have been created, any speculative behaviour that has taken place, can then be distributed fairly and to help those who are victims of this increase in gas prices. and the third lesson is that i do not see how, in this context, you can continue to support, madam commissioner, the increase in the price of co2 for heating, when you yourself are saying that the increase in the price of gas for heating must be limited.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are facing a serious challenge from high energy prices in the european union. we have to be very smart about this. it is a common reproach against politicians that they only think about the next election and never about the next generation. and, commissioner, there is pressure from the member states on you, for example, to weaken emissions trading and not to implement new steps on emissions trading in the 'fit for 55' package because of the current high energy prices. the measures of 'fit for 55' will only really work in 2025, 2026, 2027. anyone who says we need to weaken the ets is confirming any prejudice. and i'm not ready for that. we need to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy. that helps right away. and we need to do that especially with the socially vulnerable by enabling them to buy energy-efficient products. because pernille white was right when she said that energy that i don't use doesn't cost anything. the same applies to the economy: the less we consume, the less dependent we are, and the less exposed we are to such price shocks. and investors in this technology need clarity. anyone who behaves in a climate-friendly way should make money. that is why we need a smart long-term strategy with targeted aid, but we must not put european climate policy in question anywhere.
madam president, this is a very important issue on the energy prices, and more than 80% of our citizens are concerned by the energy price, and i think that is really a concern for all of us. but then let’s stick to the facts. first of all, there are some colleagues, of course, every time trying to link it with climate change policies. but the analysis clearly show that it’s around 80 to 85% because of the gas price and only 10 to 15% because of the carbon price. so are we going to talk about the 10% or the more than 80%? i think we should discuss the latter. and there is a question when we are talking about gas, this is a question to the commission. also here if you look at the gazprom numbers, for example, the delivery to the eu through belarus went down 70% last week. so are we being played by gazprom and russia? and this is an analysis that the commission should do, and should make very clear to all of us because if there is this political, geopolitical play, we need to act on it and maybe the dependence to nord stream 2 to germany was not a very wise idea. but what does this mean in the short-term – compensation for the vulnerable households? there are possibilities in the current eu framework. dear commission make that known to the member states. but also in the medium and the long-term, do more on an energy union where we have joint contracts, gas contracts, with also long-term price deals and, of course, make ourselves less dependent on gas – meaning green deal, more energy efficiency, more renewables. that’s the logical approach. let’s stick to the facts but also let’s work.
president, ladies and gentlemen, energy is becoming painfully expensive and yet the european union continues to rage at its unaffordable green deal, when the better option is at hand: nuclear energy, which is cheap, reliable, emits only water vapor and the waste can be safely stored in geologically stable layers. but the purple-green government in belgium is also stubbornly pushing ahead. she really suffers from nuclear phobia. meanwhile, for example, the united kingdom and sweden are investing in nuclear energy. investments are being made in third and fourth generation reactors in japan, south korea, china, the usa, russia, france and finland. in flanders, we have a world player in scientific research with the nuclear energy research centre in mol, but the purple-green government does not explicitly encourage this. and it could be crazier. the european commission approves the belgian government's decision to grant 3 billion in subsidies to polluting gas-fired power stations to replace existing and clean nuclear power stations. conclusion so we have in belgium a green minister who hates nuclear energy and would rather burn a lot of gas. the fact that tinne van der straeten owned half the shares of the law firm blixt until recently may play a role. the office has in the past defended the interests of the gas lobby. i rest my case.
madam president, imagine a child with her siblings laying down in a remote area of one of the poorest countries in the world around a petrol lamp studying until the light dies. that child was me. many kids do not have access to education because of energy issues. as a business employee, i saw african businesses struggle, struggling to share crucial documents because of unreliable energy sources. today in europe, soaring energy prices are exposing families to a situation where they will not be sure they can afford to keep the light on in their homes, keep their kids warm at night or run their businesses properly. how is this going to help for education and a life in dignity? as a mother and as a citizen, i am worried. as a member of this house, i feel ashamed because we do have the power to change this situation – so what are we waiting for? yes, we must worry about the future of the planet. yes, we must reduce carbon emissions. but does anyone here believe that shutting down nuclear plants and building gas plants will help, thus driving our own economies out of business instead of innovating help? if we continue like this, we will pay not only with money but also with the souls of our nations. we must act or turn the light off, go home, die of shame.
madam president, in this disproportionate increase in the price of energy, some are losing, the households, and others are gaining, the oligopolies, who have also been capturing political decisions for years. and now it is not worth saying that the ecological transition is to blame, because, as is well known, only 20% of the increase in the bill is related to the increase in the price of carbon. 80% of it has to do with the increase in the price of gas. and that's the problem, our endemic dependence on fossil fuels. now we have to do some things for the long term. two very clear ones: firstly, to deploy renewables more rapidly and, secondly, to change the marginalist pricing system. we cannot pretend to electrify, as we need to do under the green deal, by making all energy sources pay the highest price. and secondly, in the short term we also need to make those so-called 'fall from the sky' benefits pay the taxes they touch. and i want to celebrate some of the measures that are being taken in this direction, for example in spain. and finally, commissioner, we need clear ideas and clear proposals on what to do with the most vulnerable households in the short term. in the toolbox you are about to present, i hope that this aspect will be addressed in a specific and ambitious way.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the vivaldi coalition in belgium, have you heard? the european commission is urging you to reduce vat on energy. the european commission says that not only is this in line with european rules, but it is also a good idea. it is not every day that the european commission adopts a proposal from the pvda. so i suggest you listen to it and lower the bill for the people in belgium. but do you know, commissioner, that the vat on energy in belgium is 21%? as much as champagne or caviar. that is absurd. we need to get that vat down now. we have to help people. because you allow the rich to hide their billions in tax havens, panama and others, but the people, themselves, must hide. there is no more question, it must end here and now. we're going to fight for it, we're not going to let you get away with it.
madam president, pandora's box was opened in 2013. since then, ten other scandals have been uncovered by the same consortium of journalists, revealing a system of systemic offshore company fraud, the complicity of many governments and the continued failure to monitor and ensure transparency. these revelations have led to a strengthening of anti-money laundering legislation and tax transparency in europe. however, ten years later, this legislation is still being applied in our member states in a limited or inadequate way and the european commission is not initiating any infringement procedures. we demand that she justify herself. we can have the highest standards, but if they're not enforced, what's the point? pandora reveals above all that those who make the laws are also the ones who profit from these immoral financial schemes. the cynical thing is that dutch finance minister wopke hoekstra, who is himself responsible for drawing up tax haven lists, a big spender on public spending and a proponent of fiscal austerity, is one of the political figures pinpointed by the pandora papers for an investment in the british virgin islands, which are not on the list. we are starting negotiations on the revision of the anti-money laundering policy in europe. we therefore need a political consensus to strengthen the list of tax havens and non-cooperative countries - contrary to what our government ministers have just decided - and to strengthen european and global rules on tax transparency and anti-money laundering, to put an end, once and for all, to the offshore industry. our responses must be commensurate with the scandal; our credibility depends on it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interventions. i see in this plenary a broad convergence, and also a sentiment of participation and indignation about the fact that we are frequently called by journalistic investigations to react to these scandals. i am sure that there is also an awareness of the fact that this is also an opportunity for our institutions, because it’s true that in recent years we made legislative progress. it’s interesting to note that in these very days we could make further progress, because we could reach an important global agreement. but, at the same time, we are lacking in both implementation and speed, because in this fight between those that promote this behaviour, and those of us fighting it, the matter of speed is essential. i think that from this debate we should take a commitment to strengthen the implementation, such as the criteria for our list of jurisdictions and, of course, the discussion that is going on – which we will address in the next debate – about the reform of the code of conduct. i count on the commitment of the slovenian presidency to try to accelerate the discussion that has been going on for one year on the reform of the code of conduct. and we have to accelerate our proposals – perhaps the most important one after the anti-money laundering package will be the proposal on shell companies. we know that this fight about implementation and speed will not be solved in a few weeks. but we also know that we are more determined than ever to go ahead with this. with our determination, i think that opening this pandora’s box could be seen not as it was in greek mythology as a disaster, a tragedy, but as an opportunity to go forward. i think that together we can reach this target.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear commissioner, honourable members, let me be very clear that the council supports the work of the oecd inclusive framework on the so-called beps – base erosion and profit shifting – aimed at reaching a global consensus—based solution for delivery to the g20 in 2021, taking into account the interests of all member states in order to ensure that all corporations pay their fair share of tax and profit generated by their activities in the eu. some members put forward the question of the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. the purpose of the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes adopted by the council is to encourage cooperation and positive change, not to name and shame. the council has never characterised the eu list as a blacklist. many speakers stressed the removal of three countries – anguilla, dominica and the seychelles – from the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. let me explain that these countries were removed from the list in annex 1, because they made sufficient commitments at a high political level to address the deficiencies that had been identified. the list is revised twice a year. the council engages with the countries that do not meet the criteria on tax transparency, fair taxation and prevention of base erosion and profit shifting, monitors their progress and regularly reviews and updates the list. in any case, the delisting from annex 1 does not mean that those countries are not monitored any more. they are simply not considered non—cooperative any longer, but continue to be examined as part of annex 2. it is worth noting that they accepted to make commitments at a high level. this is a positive development. nine jurisdictions remain on the list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. the next review of the list will take place in february 2022. there was as well a statement that the council should better explain its decision. the fiscal attachés met on 8, 13, 16 and 20 september to prepare the revision of the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions and on 21 september met the members of the code of conduct group for the draft council conclusions. the high-level working party on tax questions examined the state of play on 23 september. fiscal attachés met again on 24 september for the proposal to proceed as an eighth item, and it was supported by all the delegations – the netherlands included. coreper met on 29 september to adopt the decision at the ecofin this week without discussion and therefore the decision was adopted. – gospa predsednica. spoštovane poslanke in poslanci, gospe in gospodje. zahvaljujem se v imenu sveta za današnjo razpravo in vaš prispevek k tej zelo pomembni temi, ki bo zagotovo še odmevala in se bo o njej zagotovo še razpravljalo tudi v okviru evropskega parlamenta in tudi v vseh institucijah, ki so povezane s preprečevanjem pranja denarja in davčnimi utajami. želim si, da bodo države članice evropske unije našle skupno pot za kar najučinkovitejši sistem preprečevanja pranja denarja in preprečevanje davčnih utaj. spoštovani komisar, gospod gentiloni. lahko vam zagotovim, da je slovenija zavezana in da bo slovensko predsedstvo storilo vse, kar je v naši moči, da bi v tem mandatu in v času slovenskega predsedovanja prispevali k uresničitvi tega cilja. še enkrat hvala za pozornost.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. this is not made up. in the wake of the #pandorapapers, european finance ministers are removing three countries from the blacklist of tax havens, including the last remaining jurisdiction with a 0% tax rate, anguilla, and also the seychelles, at the heart of the scandal that has just erupted. it is not simply a question of timing, of course, but of policy, from the national to the european level. when it comes to making workers pay or cutting public services, you're always the first. but when it comes to ensuring that multinationals and millionaires pay their taxes, you confuse us with technical explanations to say that it is too complicated. and note the deafening silence of the far right today! always bragging about "our people first" and "zero tolerance", but when it comes to defending working people against tax evasion by millionaires, the far right is the absentee followers. worse, the far right consistently votes against measures to better combat tax evasion at european level. the millionaires will appreciate the services rendered. that's enough. let's change course. we must impose total transparency, a blacklist worthy of the name, with a ban on financial transactions with tax havens.
president, ladies and gentlemen, asylum is being misused as a channel for migration. since 2015, as many as five million asylum seekers have arrived in europe, two-thirds of them men, most of them single and of military age. as many as 60% turned out not to be real refugees but economic opportunists and asylum fraudsters. they have no place here, but two thirds of them simply refused to leave again. once inside, we can't get them out. we have no defense against this invasion of migrants. it is the european union. our internal borders have been abolished. our external borders are a sieve. globalist eu judges are banning the defence of our borders with pushbacks against illegal invaders and the effective return of these asylum fraudsters. what do they want now? a new european agency for asylum is needed. more european union, more unelected bureaucrats, more power to themselves, so they can open the borders even further. our people don't want that. they want protection, security and a secure future for our children. that's why we have to suspend asylum. we need to get a shelter in our own region. we do not need a new european agency for asylum seekers, but a remigration agency. this would be the last time the european union could prove its worth.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, myanmar has a long story of democratic struggles and military suppression. it was like reading a horror story when reading the most recent report from the un special rapporteur on myanmar. family members, including even innocent children, sometimes only 20 weeks old, of critics are systematically kidnapped in order to force them to surrender. we could all read this in the guardian this week. on 1 february 2021, the military of myanmar once again seized power over the legislative, judicial and executive branches of government and issued a one—year state of emergency. that’s also how these horrors started. the international community must continue to take additional action against, and impose costs on, the military and its leaders until they reverse course and provide for a return to democracy. i call on the council to continue imposing targeted and robust sanctions with the aim to cut off the lifelines of the junta, whilst ensuring that these do not harm the people of myanmar. the eu must call on myanmar’s military to immediately cease all violence and attacks against the myanmar people in all parts of the country, to release all political detainees and to protect minorities.
author. mr president, i am not surprised that paul rusesabagina has been sentenced to 25 years in prison by the high court of rwanda. what surprises me is how belgium allows a fellow citizen to wither away far too easily. the belgians are not here. kathleen, hilde, tom and i are still committed to paul rusesabagina. rwanda has not allowed belgium to provide full consular assistance to paul rusesabagina. it is a pity that belgium has acquiesced to this far too quickly. the irregularities before and during his trial reinforce the impression of a politically motivated trial in violation of rwandan and international law. he has not been given a fair and just trial, particularly with regard to the rights of the defence. it is also absurd that no further investigation has been carried out into the bizarre circumstances of his arrest. rwanda will have to cooperate more closely with belgium, of which mr rusesabagina is a national, during this post-process period. for humanitarian reasons, particularly his fragile health, he is better repatriated to belgium or the usa, where he has a permanent right of residence. this does not prevent any further investigation and trial from taking place.
i am in favour of a strong social responsibility for every european citizen and our duty to increase the well-being of everyone. the prerequisite for this is a sound economic policy, and i would venture to say that a responsible and sound economic policy is in fact the best social policy. we know that debt levels have risen beyond the necessary covid-19 assessment in all member states, especially those where the problems of the economy were already evident earlier. but that is no reason to lose sight of the foundations of the stability and growth pact, nor is it a reason to leave debt unaddressed. we need to achieve sustainable debt levels in order to be able to afford to continue the countercyclical recovery and to be able to afford climate and other investments for which europe has a huge investment deficit. the rrf process is a model for good management of public funds, and as important as looking at debt levels is how we direct our spending in different sectors so that it produces better and more efficiently, and each sector can be an investment but also a waste in this respect.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact is that today's debate should have been a joint debate, addressing both the labour and social aspects of the european semester and the economic aspects. unfortunately, the socialists, greens and left have prevented the committee on economic and monetary affairs from giving an opinion on this important subject. the report of the committee on employment and social affairs is a wish-fulfillment and in many places it touches on matters which are not at all within the remit of the committee on employment. and as i listen to this today, i'm really wondering, does anyone else who's speaking here actually know what the semester process means? the semester process was created to prevent states from falling into the debt trap at an early stage. if we do everything you're asking here, then all the states will be in the debt trap and in the long run bankrupt! the report makes one objective very clear: they want to convert the european union into a debt union, systematically undermine the instruments of economic governance and also misuse the european development fund for an agenda that has nothing to do with competitiveness and reform efforts. if we do the european semester according to your blueprint, we will completely lose sight of the economic governance of the european union. that is why i reject it, and many of us reject it.
madam president, i have been in constant contact with young people for the last 15 days in connection with the european youth meeting and the conference on the future of europe. the only thing that has been found is that young people do not feel that they are being taken into account in europe. precarious employment, difficulty in accessing affordable and decent housing, and so on. europe must listen to them more. and yet, their message is clear. social and ecological europe must be brought back to the fore. we need a europe that can tackle environmental, social and digital issues in order to offer european youth prospects rather than plunge into crisis. the 'business as usual' semester, the 'austerity semester', has only served to increase disparities on our continent. it is a europe that is refocused on human capital that we socialists and democrats are calling for. a europe that offers young people a chance to build a future of dignity, prosperity and quality. it is therefore urgent that the european semester should give equal weight to social, environmental and digital issues as to economic issues. financing young people is not a debt, it is a profitable investment for all.
member of the commission. madam president, your debate shows first of all the importance of the exercise; it shows the importance of the semester. we need an instrument for economic and social governance in europe. this is all the more important as we are going through a period of uncertainty, a period of uncertainty and, above all, a period of change, because of the pandemic, but not only because of the pandemic. i think one or more of you have said: we need to talk more about men and women, we need to talk more about young people and children because, in the end, that's where the economy starts. and the pandemic has been a terrible lesson -- when suddenly, everyone's life and well-being are at stake. we found that investment in social infrastructure, in hospitals and in our nursing homes was fundamental, as was all those who were engaged in working with men and women, with the sick. these jobs suddenly became vital, fundamental. and so i think that is the message from europe. of course, i agree with everyone else that the economy is important. but here again, the one who denies, the one who challenges the change in progress, the one who closes his eyes to climate change is putting the future on the wrong track. we have seen this summer what climate change means for thousands and thousands of families who have lost everything, for all those people who have been victims of the consequences of climate change. social policy, social investment and a good economic policy which, of course, ensures certain balances and anticipates the balances in time without focusing on the present moment: i believe that this is what we need for the future, to cope with these upheavals that are taking place.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and particularly the rapporteur – mr nikolaj villumsen – and all the shadow rapporteurs for the work on this important legislative own-initiative report on the protection of workers from asbestos. it has been said that asbestos is a question of life and death. indeed, asbestos is a major carcinogen and the first cause of work-related cancer deaths in the european union. we fully share parliament’s concern with regard to asbestos, especially in this juncture where member states are deploying important investments in view of building renovation to meet green targets. it is, therefore, of the utmost importance to make sure that the protection of workers, as well as citizens, against adverse health effects due to exposure to asbestos is a priority in the implementation of the renovation wave and other key european green deal strategies in line with principle 10 of the european pillar of social rights. we are not starting from scratch. asbestos is already a highly regulated substance and the eu has over the years given itself a comprehensive set of measures to address the risks posed by asbestos. for decades, the eu has acted to initially limit and finally ban all uses of asbestos. from the year 2005, no forms of asbestos can be produced, placed on the market, or used in the eu. however, asbestos is still present in many buildings and we need and can do more to protect our citizens and, in particular, exposed workers from this very, very dangerous substance. to that end, we need to go beyond the existing legislation on protecting workers from asbestos. as regards your call for a european framework for national strategies for the safe removal of asbestos in the member states, the commission agrees on the importance of pursuing a comprehensive approach to addressing the risks stemming from asbestos and the coordination of national strategies for its removal. the commission will examine the possible scope of a european framework based on a review of national and regional strategies and by convening an expert group to identify best practices in this area. the commission will also take into account the concerns expressed by parliament in the implementation of the renovation wave and the zero pollution action plan for a toxic-free environment, including by identifying and addressing possible gaps in asbestos management and here i will refer shortly to directive 2010/31/eu. moreover, the commission can support research and dissemination of best practices, better cooperation, awareness-raising, including through the direct involvement of local and regional authorities through actions included in the renovation wave action plan and the update of the governance regulation to correspond to the ‘fit for 55’ package. furthermore, by 2023, the commission will assess pathways and policy options to improve indoor air quality, focusing on key determinants and pollution sources, and exploring ways to raise greater public awareness and reduce risks. the specific issue of asbestos will be addressed in this context. as regards the call for legislative proposals for national asbestos registers and building screening requirements, the commission commits to study the feasibility of union legislative proposals in both areas, with due account for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and member states’ competences. to ensure consistency and complementarity across these policy initiatives, the commission will examine this call together with the call for a european framework for national strategies for asbestos removal considered earlier. the commission commits to resort to legislative actions as requested by parliament where feasible and relevant. where not possible, the commission will pursue alternative approaches in order to achieve the goals identified by parliament. for instance, the commission will prepare a survey of existing national or regional strategies on asbestos, their evidence base and the concrete measures being taken. it will identify best practices, communicate the results at eu level and possibly provide guidance and/or recommendations to member states. in parallel, the commission will continue to facilitate research and innovation on the detection and safe handling of asbestos, for instance, by exploring the possibility of developing a new eurocode on asbestos removal and by possibly including safety-related issues in calls for research projects fostering asbestos detection methods for more efficient use of surface screening methods. moreover, the transition pathway towards a more sustainable, innovative and resilient construction ecosystem announced in the industrial strategy update will also contribute to improving the sustainability and the quality of the built environment, including its safety, and the already-announced initiative on digital building logbook may also facilitate access to information available on the presence of asbestos in buildings. let me now turn to the protection of workers, another field that is directly under my responsibility. to protect workers, the eu and its member states have developed a solid legislation package that lays down a strong legal obligation for employers to do a risk assessment and take preventive measures. we have set a clear limit value for exposure of workers removing asbestos. there are numerous tools developed by the european agency for protection of health and safety of workers and senior labour inspectors’ committee to support the employers and workers in fulfilling these obligations. honourable members, you are now requesting us to collectively see how we can further strengthen these policies and that, i assure you, we will do. we are already well advanced with the preparatory work to update the current asbestos network directive from 2009 to lower the existing occupational exposure limit and to improve the protections further. we will seek to address the concerns expressed by parliament, while respecting the established process for scientific evaluation and consultation with stakeholders and social partners. this process involves a scientific evaluation by the european chemicals agency, a two-stage consultation of the social partners, the consultation of the tripartite advisory committee on safety and health at work, in which employers, workers and member states are represented, and an impact assessment. we believe that this process is the best guarantee for evidence-based policy-making and will ensure its full transparency, including towards parliament. as regards the occupational diseases and corresponding compensation for workers, we will act within the boundaries of the treaty, in full respect of the competence of the member states. while legislative action cannot, therefore, be provided in this field, we will ask the tripartite advisory committee on health and safety at work to work to further include relevant asbestos-related diseases in the commission recommendation on occupational diseases. turning to the energy performance of buildings directive, its revision is expected to be adopted in december. we will build upon the provisions to limit the use of harmful substances and favour their removal, while promoting the improvement of the energy performance of buildings and a healthy indoor environment. as for waste, we will continue promoting and closely following technological developments in asbestos treatment and decontamination to ensure best available technologies are applied to treating asbestos waste and recovering materials into the circular economy, consistent with the european green deal objectives. we will also look at the eu construction and demolition waste management protocol and guidelines for waste audits and aim at accelerating their update. finally, let me conclude with funding. under the new european bauhaus, the commission has committed to dedicating eur 85 million in funds to european bauhaus projects from eu programmes in 2021-22 and the national recovery and resilience plans to the sector. in addition, cohesion policy significantly helps member states and regions to invest in the renovation of buildings, to boost energy efficiency and to enhance their overall sustainability in line with the european green deal objectives. we will, in our close dialogue with the member states on the implementation of the recovery and resilience plans, emphasise the need to respect all obligations in the context of the extensive renovations that will be undertaken, including the asbestos question. in this context, i will also address the advisory committee on health and safety at work to see how we can further step up our joint work with the member states and the social partners. i know that my colleagues across the college will do the same in their respective area.
i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this area. we are finally voting on this groundbreaking report. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the very constructive cooperation they have shown. asbestos is still responsible for 88 000 deaths in europe. although its use has been banned since 2005, asbestos remains the main cause of work-related cancer in the eu. and we need to take advantage of the momentum of the green deal and the renewal wave. many buildings are over 50 years old and will need to be renovated to meet climate targets. these renovations will release large quantities of asbestos. to address the potential wave of new asbestos exposure as efficiently and effectively as possible, we need ambitious and common standards at european level. there are too many differences between member states in the removal of asbestos. for the mobile and posted workers, this is literally and figuratively killing them. exposure to asbestos is not just a problem for workers, by the way. exposure is no longer limited to the workplace, but also occurs at home, during sports, or even at school. that's why we've expanded the scope. our objective is crystal clear. we are in favour of an asbestos-free europe, with a sharp reduction in european limit values, a reverse burden of proof for recognition as an occupational disease, inventorying for sale and rental, compulsory disposal for renovation works, a thorough approach to asbestos dumping tourism, more labour inspections and common training standards. let us support this ambitious report to put an end to the dark legacy of asbestos once and for all.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the union's budget will be strengthened by the next generation eu recovery plan and the financial effort to ensure that recovery in 2022 will be unprecedented. in order to ensure the confidence of citizens, but also of entrepreneurs, european money must be spent wisely. we will therefore pay particular attention to respect for the rule of law and to the fight against fraud in the union budget. we are going through a period of climate, economic, social, geopolitical upheaval. budgeting means making choices about promising investments to ensure a sustainable recovery and an ambitious green and digital transition. it is also about ensuring that these investments meet the aspirations of our citizens. that is why i ask the council, madam minister, to take stock of the issues and to review the cuts made in total contradiction to the shared priorities expressed on many occasions within our institution. ladies and gentlemen, the union will only be sustainable if it is strong from within, through functioning institutions. the european court of justice, the court of auditors and the european data protection supervisor work there every day. the complexity and increased importance of the legal issues before the court are a reality. the resources allocated to these institutions must match our ambitions. and in the light of these considerations, we are all aware that europe, in order to remain credible, must be solidary, inclusive, youth-oriented and responsible.
mr president, it is clear that the chinese demand for reunification with taiwan is not just about completing the chinese project, but also about gaining geopolitical dominance in the indo-pacific region. in this context, the weimers report rightly expresses serious concern at china's continued military aggression towards taiwan and recommends that the eu and the member states play a proactive role in working with like-minded international partners to pursue peace and stability in the taiwan strait and to establish partnerships with the taiwanese government. the report stresses that there is a direct link between european prosperity and asian security. we must therefore strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to change the status quo and to increase tensions. a military conflict in the taiwan strait would cause considerable economic disruption, with repercussions also for our european countries, and would seriously undermine the rules-based international order. we must not allow authoritarianism to override democracy.
president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, there has been much wisdom here, and i shall concentrate my speech today on the importance of a healthy environment in the context of public health. you won't blame me as the coordinator of the beca committee. the commission has already made major statements on the green deal, the action plan to reduce all pollution to zero, the new chemical strategy, the anti-cancer plan. despite all the good intentions, we are still exposed to too many toxins, carcinogens and hormone disruptors every day. people are still exposed to too much fine dust and workers to asbestos. too often, toxic substances are dumped into rivers, dumped into our environment. it 's clear to me: everyone has the right to a healthy environment and two principles are particularly crucial in this regard. public health is at the heart of every decision we make. this must be the touchstone of our policy and that policy must also be enforceable. stricter controls and sanctions for those who break the rules are therefore essential. as the united nations human rights council recently stated, everyone has the right to a healthy environment. let us take the lead here in europe.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, you have a package of money, public money, about 10 billion, and you promised the citizens that it will be used to develop new environmental technologies, new innovative medicines, all that... and what do you do? you put that money into public-private partnerships. it is called the joint venture now, it is a bit of jargon, but it is the same instrument that failed several times during the previous legislature. so who appointed these joint ventures this time? who will be consulting and deciding on priorities? but it's the same multinationals again. you don't believe that? but these are not the least of the problems. for example, in the bio-industry partnership, who is involved? total and the italian giant eni, also a fossil giant. in the medicine? big pharma is back! the big pharma lobby that's going to be co-deciding which drug to develop, because we know we can trust them, right? they've already proven it. no, frankly, at that level, it's a joke. if you just wanted to give money to these big companies without conditions, you had to say it honestly and openly. because in the end, the product developed will not even belong to us. it'll be owned by the big companies, who will sell it to us. what's this? it's really just subsidies for big business. so, frankly, we had a misunderstanding. it is true that i often speak of the europe of multinationals, but that is to denounce it. it's not a manual, it's not advice. so, please, can we change the logic and make public investments controlled by the public?
president, ladies and gentlemen, i have already pointed out here on several occasions that the european union is lagging behind in terms of digitalisation and investment in, for example, artificial intelligence. in 2020, more than 80 percent of those investments were in the united states and china. in the european union, only 4 percent, barely 4 percent. so you must urgently shift to a budget for the 21st century, with more investment in research and development. furthermore, cooperation with the united states is crucial. the trade and technology council (ttc) needs to produce results on data regulation. we must have the ambition to set the global standards, to create a ttc effect. finally, the rules: yes, but it's supposed to stimulate the market. we can't let that slow down the market. we have to give our starters a chance. we need a lot more growth companies. we have no european company in the world's top 15 digital companies.
madam president, the european summit will have as one of its objectives a strategic debate on the common commercial policy. i hope that this will also be an opportunity to have a democratic dimension. how can you expect our farmers, for example, to continue to accept that products imported into european territory do not meet the same health, environmental or social standards in our territory? this is a democratic issue. the same applies to climate policy: how can we achieve climate objectives without having the same requirements for these imported products? our trade agreements must therefore be reviewed in the light of these various elements. as far as trade policy is concerned, i hope that energy policy will also be included. some colleagues have spoken to emphasize this point, and i agree with them particularly on the energy independence which must be as strong as possible at european level. we must of course develop renewable energy, but we must also have a strong nuclear policy and our autonomy in this area at european level, to avoid the structural problems we are currently experiencing and also to avoid being in the hands of russia in particular.
the european parliament, on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 'urges the member states to ban neo-fascist and neo-nazi groups and any other foundation or association which exalts and glorifies nazism and fascism', reads the resolution entitled 'increasing neo-fascist violence in europe', adopted on 25 october 2018. it's been three years, but things haven't improved. in rome, neo-fascist-inspired groups infiltrated protest movements, storming and destroying the national headquarters of the cgil, a hundred years after similar attacks by mussolini's fascists. we are talking about the largest italian trade union, to which i would like to extend the solidarity of our parliamentary group, as we have done by taking to the streets this weekend, to secretary maurizio landini, the other italian unions and trade union leaders. the ultra-nationalist right wing of this parliament has failed to prevent this debate, which is necessary today. but as i said at the beginning, the european parliament already has a clear position, in line with what the democratic party in italy is also asking: neo-fascist and neo-nazi groups, such as forza nuova and others, must be dissolved. we need a tough response. thanks to investigations by the free press, on fanpage and piazzapulita in italy, we discovered that this black galaxy also tries to infiltrate the parties with funding and by choosing people of reference. i ask the european and italian right to be less reticent, less babbling when it is necessary to defend our democracy together against subversion. i would like to say to giorgia meloni and matteo salvini that we have seen too much timidity on your part in recognising the obvious political matrix of these attacks. shame on you and try to live up to the history of europe after the nazi-fascism and the italian constitution, born of the blood sacrifice of the resistance.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was only in 1922, a few months before the advent of the fascist regime, that a trade union office in italy was not attacked by extremist groups. this event, with its symbolic weight and media relevance, marks a change of pace in the political strategy of far-right groups, taking their action from small political events to a dimension of national evidence. in the face of this upsurge we need to send a strong signal of intransigence towards violence and the violation of the rules of civil life, a signal which should unite all the democratic political forces of the right and the left without any doubt. but we have not seen that unity because of the overly indulgent words of the italian right-wing parties. years of populist and nationalist propaganda have helped to create a cultural base on which today forces that recall the dark years of europe are easily anchored. these neo-fascist movements have shown a strong ability to penetrate into the spaces of marginalization, exploiting and feeding, especially through the internet, the fears of people, creating enemies, whether they are represented by immigrants or, as in this case, by vaccines and green pass. but intransigence is not enough. we must remove the fuel from the engine of this extreme right wing, tackle the problems at their root, and carry out a profound cultural memory operation, especially for the younger generation. i would like to conclude by recalling, mr president, that one of those responsible for this attack on the igc was a member of this parliament and that in the past funding for european political parties has also been given to extremist forces. i hope that the institutions of this parliament will take the necessary steps to prevent this from happening again.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. it is true that the virus of fascism still exists in italy, but fortunately it is marginal in size and the country which has experienced its catastrophe and defeated it on the ground has developed effective antibodies. the attack on the trade union in rome, which recalls the darkest page of our history, is an obscene act that should be condemned by all, without exception. unfortunately, various institutional parties in europe turn a blind eye to fascists and violent people. this is the case in italy with the brothers of italy and the league, who use an ambiguous language and cannot deny fascism and fascists. but there are things to be explained about these facts. firstly, these groups, which are mainly made up of ultras and fanatics, are very small in number and their members are well known to the italian police. we should ask ourselves why, during peaceful demonstrations, they were left free to create chaos, with the police infiltrating the violent or engaged in suppressing the peaceful side of the demonstration. it happened in rome, it happened many times in the past and it's still happening. the demonstrations in italy against the use of the green pass to work are not fascist demonstrations, they are attended by people who suffer from a strong social discomfort and who have the right to demonstrate, since no country in the european union applies to work the impositions envisaged in italy by the draghi government. violent and neo-fascist elements are actually playing into the hands of those who want to suppress dissent, and in italy this is unfortunately not new.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am genuinely surprised by the commissioner's report. we are here for a debate where title to merit is a matter of double standards. the premise is that full solidarity with the igc for what happened in rome is absolutely necessary, just as it is absolutely necessary to condemn "without question and without reservation" every violent act and every infiltration of associations or movements that may refer to neo-fascism, as well as referring to anarcho-communist positions. because you, commissioner, have not mentioned the europol report here today. so if you haven't made a sign, i'll remind you quickly. because it is enough to read the europol report to see that extremism on both sides must be strongly condemned, must be strongly condemned. 98 arrests in 2019, 24 in 2020 in italy, 22 attacks in 2019, 24 in 2020, only one is attributed to right-wing extremism, which we strongly condemn, but it is not possible not to say a word about all the rest, it is not possible to take positions in this house from an institutional point of view by launching a debate that is devoid of the real story of what happened. because if what happened in italy has happened, you should have, as this house should have, pointed out the very serious responsibilities in the security management system of our country, which have led our party to call for the resignation of the minister of the interior. because the demonstration towards and against the headquarters of the igc was led by a man who is the subject of a measure that would not have allowed him to be in the square and the minister herself, answering a question in parliament, said that no intervention was made to avoid violence, unlike what happened in milan and what happened in the last few hours in trieste. that's why we don't like this setup. that's why this debate seems to be biased. that is why we have no difficulty in firmly condemning all acts which can be classified as extremist, which are not good and which should not be part of the civil and democratic debate in our country in europe. but we cannot accept the approach we are seeing today, we cannot accept that the commission representative comes here to tell a story that is biased and biased and that does not correspond to the reality of the facts. we cannot accept that conditions should be laid down here for speaking of some demonstrations and not others. you see, what happened in italy is very serious. it is also important to note what happened next, because expressing solidarity, trying to distance in any way by condemning positions of this kind cannot mean in any way turning this matter into an attack on the main opposition party. because what happened in italy was the exact opposite of what one would expect from a debate of this kind, and that is why we want to express very clearly a strongly negative opinion of this approach. you see, for days we have been discussing poland in the morning and afternoon, italy the next day, imagining that there is a narrative being told in this parliament which does not correspond in any way to what is the reality of the facts. that is why we are not afraid to express our position clearly and forcefully, and we do so in the knowledge that our attitude and our commitment are absolutely in line with the interests of the citizens and that we strongly condemn any extreme and violent position.
on behalf of the group the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we too were in rome in solidarity with the igc. and since we are talking about italy, let's talk about it. italy is the only country in the european union where people are living worse than they did 30 years ago, where workers are earning less than they did 30 years ago, and this is clearly the concrete result of policies, policies carried out by the government, of course, of the centre-left, but also of the right and the extreme right. and people are angry, they're fed up, and they're right. he's right to protest. and in that context, what does the far right do? he wants to channel, divert the anger of the people not against the 50 billionaires, benetton, berlusconi, ferrero, etc., no, not against them, but first against the migrants, now the unions, the cgil and the grassroots unions, whatever they are; in the clash between workers and corporations, the far right beats up or divides the working class. so how do you oppose it? let us be clear, we need to point the finger first and foremost at the real perpetrators of this social crisis, and these are, of course, the traditional politicians, the european commission and national governments, but also those big companies, those big companies that are now exploiting workers in italy and elsewhere in europe. let's change the policy. just make the workers pay. instead of unblocking the layoffs, we raise wages, something the right will never propose. and if the european recovery plan is useless, it is useless for this, it will be useless.
i understand that this is a very important debate, but can i recall – also for all the colleagues, and also those previous – that, according to rule 10(3), members shall not display banners, for everybody’s information, in these kinds of debates.
president, ladies and gentlemen, this is beyond words. in rome, some hotheads are wreaking havoc and there is to be a major debate on racism and fascism here. i am not talking about the rome city council, but rather the european parliament's plenary session. - why? - why? that forza nuova in italy got 0.1 percent of the vote. not exactly a threat to democracy. the indignation is very one-sided here. there is no debate about the many leftist violence in italy. nor is there any debate on the islamic terror that is afflicting europe. for example, not a word about the recent murder by a muslim in norway. not a word about the somali who killed an english mp last weekend. we should concentrate on the real problems: to provide sufficient and affordable energy instead of this insane green deal, to strengthen our economic leverage against china and, of course, to stop islamization and the mass migration flows.
mr president, we are being swamped by unwanted migration. millions of people are trying to enter our homelands illegally, then pose as asylum seekers, and finally bring their whole families over. as soon as these unwanted asylum seekers set foot on european soil, they are able to claim all kinds of rights and enjoy social benefits without having contributed to them. that is untenable. but the political elite in europe seem to be more concerned about the so-called human rights of these asylum fraudsters than about the security and future of our people. the open-border model threatens our way of life. that is why we must protect our borders from these illegal invaders by sending them back immediately to where they came from with absolutely legal, humane and necessary pushbacks. it is our political and moral duty to protect our citizens.
mr president, i feel compelled to go back to the stages of this dossier, since it has generated little debate, whereas it contains a concentrated discussion of the debates which animate us in this house: artificial intelligence, mass surveillance, indiscriminate collection of data, including from non-suspects, exchange of this data with third countries and private companies. the starting point for the reform was the discovery by the european data protection board of the agency's massive analysis of personal data outside any legal framework. the commission then presents us with a reform which legalizes illegal practices and considerably strengthens the agency's powers at its request. all this without evaluation or impact assessment. ladies and gentlemen, this is far from a technical matter. the exchange of data with private parties and third states has consequences in terms of fundamental rights and data protection. the financing of europol projects by third countries may have consequences in terms of foreign interference. giving the agency the executive power to directly insert security alerts into the schengen information system is a highly political issue. allowing it to develop research and innovation projects, artificial intelligence for experimental and police purposes, and to promote facial recognition technologies when our parliament opposed them a fortnight ago, are highly political issues. ensuring the protection of fundamental rights is a highly political issue. however, the enlargement of the agency's tasks and powers means that the necessary safeguards and independent mechanisms of democratic control are lacking. ladies and gentlemen, europol must ensure the safety of all citizens without undermining their fundamental rights. i therefore urge you to oppose this text, these developments which do not make europe a safer continent for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, frontex is the most funded european agency - €6 million in 2005, its budget has increased to €543 million in 2021, or 90 times more. and frontex's budget has ballooned along with the criticism of it. these criticisms have turned into investigations by the european parliament, reports by the court of auditors, reports by countless civil society organisations, all of which point to internal dysfunctions, clear shortcomings in the agency's missions, but also duplicity by management in serious cases of violations of fundamental rights at european borders. an investigation by the european anti-fraud office is still open. our role is to ensure budgetary control and, obviously, the frontex management does not care about that, since our recommendations have been dead letter for years. despite this situation, which can be described as bad governance, the proposal, especially the right-wing proposal, is to vote for the discharge of the frontex agency's budget and thus send it the message that it can continue with impunity. in january 2022, we will resume work on the 2020 landfill. and what are we gonna do then? we will make the same recommendations to the commission, possibly with amendments to those made by olaf. but what a joke to any observer and what a profound disrespect for our own institution and our role as budgetary controllers! what a disrespect also for european citizens who have the right to transparency and what a disrespect for migrants whose fundamental rights are systematically violated at our borders. today we have to vote against the discharge to frontex and we will see in three months' time, when we resume our work, whether frontex still considers our recommendations as optional.
mr president, sometimes i wonder, is this a house of poetry or a house of lawmakers expressing emotions about problems but not doing much to solve them? what people want from us is to change the situation. our work is to make good policy, support those in need and also respect our own laws. but, right now we aren’t fixing anything and that, my friends, is the problem. because, by leaving refugees and migrants in the hands of human smugglers, we are helping to treat them like animals. this is what we will continue doing if we don’t control our migration policy. belarus is being manipulated by russia to provoke and blackmail an already vulnerable eu. lukashenko and putin are today no better than human smugglers. by accepting their aggression, we are letting our citizens down and telling them that any autocrat can penetrate our borders, hijack our planes and disrespect our states. all of us here have been elected by our european people to respect them, to defend them, to protect them – that is our responsibility as politicians. we must protect our eu borders and citizens. i am not for walls. i know what it is to run away from dictatorship. but i am for the security of our people and respect for our homes. therefore, the eu must pay for the wall.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report, because it really does promote the recovery and resilience of the european union. i can hardly sum up all the positive aspects of this report in one minute, but i would like to emphasise that in the european union, intellectual property is the historically proven value that fosters progress, fosters exploration, creativity and employment. just two numbers: smes that promote ip have 60% higher income per employee and pay 20% higher wages. so we should really be supporting intellectual property and intangible property -- i feel like we're supporting less than we could possibly be. i therefore support the creation of a european intellectual property information centre and we should focus on fostering innovation, especially in this time, especially in the post-covid era. i think it's important to ratify the unified patent package, because it brings, of course, more effective protection, dispute resolution and also the creation of a unified patent court. let's protect intellectual property because that's really our historically proven value.
member of the commission. – mr president, first, we would like to thank parliament for its report on an intellectual property action plan to support the eu’s recovery and resilience. the report has well captured the importance of a balanced protection of intellectual property rights for the eu’s recovery and resilience, but also for the european economy and in particular smes. as requested by parliament, the commission will step up efforts in the areas of smes and ip management. the commission and the european union intellectual property office will launch a new european sme fund for the next three years – 2022 to 2024 – and this fund will offer more services such as the reimbursement of international trademark and national registration fees for patents. on patents, the commission is pleased with the strong support expressed by parliament on the rolling—out of the unitary patent system, which is expected to start operating by the end of next year, 2022. the commission will continue working on improving the european patent framework. first, the commission agrees that the equitable distribution of vaccines around the globe is essential for effectively combating the spread of covid—19 and that, to address supply chains, the way forward is to facilitate cross—border trade and support technology transfer based on the voluntary licensing of ip rights. the commission also stands ready to take the necessary steps to ensure access to critical ip in times of crisis, including by facilitating the use of compulsory licensing in the absence of voluntary licenses. second, to correct the fragmentation issues identified by the european parliament report as regards the need for a unitary supplementary protection certificate to be on par with the unitary patent, the commission has announced a legislative initiative for next year. the commission will analyse the most adequate institutional actors for the examination and granting. finally, as regards standard essential patents, the commission welcomes the european parliament’s call for enhancing transparency and fostering good faith licensing negotiations. the reform announced by the commission will aim at addressing those issues. in the field of geographical indications, we take note of the call for simplification and not to overburden farmers with administration. in this regard, we aim to make the scheme more attractive and accessible to farmers across the union and boost protection of geographical indications on the internet, in particular. for non—agricultural products or so—called craft and industrial products, the commission welcomes parliament’s support for the establishment of efficient and transparent european sui generis protection of geographical indications at european level for craft and industrial products. let me reassure you that the commission is working at full steam on finalising a thorough impact assessment, which is a prerequisite to a proposal in this field. next year, we will also present proposals on designs to modernise design protection systems, to support the digital and green transitions and become more accessible and efficient, in particular for smes. one of our main objectives is to complete the single market for repair spare parts to the benefit of competition and lower prices for consumers. let me also reassure you that the fight against counterfeit goods, such as pharmaceutical and medical devices and toys, remains very high on the commission’s agenda. counterfeit goods not only have negative economic impacts on european economic growth, they also mislead consumers and puts their health and safety at risk and could be detrimental to the environment. organised crime groups are also heavily involved in counterfeiting. the eu toolbox against counterfeiting is a unique opportunity for the eu to single out an overarching, effective policy for all relevant stakeholders and public authorities, to curb counterfeiting both online and offline. the toolbox will build on the existing and future horizontal european initiatives, in particular the digital services act, the eu strategy to tackle organised crime and the european customs action plan. it will also build on existing industry—led initiatives. the european parliament report highlights new challenges for ip policymaking, such as the use of artificial intelligence technologies in supporting the creation of new designs, medicines or vaccines. while we believe that the overall system is fit for these challenges, the commission will continue to assess the issues presented by parliament. the commission welcomes parliament’s call for the transposition of the directive on copyright in the digital single market without delay. the swift implementation of the new directive will benefit creative industries and citizens and ensure more fairness and clarity when copyrighted content is used online. so far, only a few member states have communicated national transposition measures, and the commission has opened infringement procedures. the commission also welcomes parliament’s support for the review of the database directive. the commission has announced a review alongside the upcoming data act. through a targeted review of the database directive, the commission wants to make sure that the directive will not pose an obstacle to data use and sharing, primarily by clarifying the status of machine—generated data. so i’d like to thank you again for the thorough assessment of our ip action plan and the valuable and supportive comments you provided. we are looking forward to continuing our excellent collaboration with you on this ambitious agenda that we have set for the european ip framework.
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on thursday 11 november 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the generalisation of intellectual property rights is a recent phenomenon, established in 1994. this was a reaction by western countries to the demands of the south for technology sharing. the aim is to guarantee the monopoly and technological domination of western multinationals and to hinder the sovereign development of other countries. nothing has changed. on climate, we should now share green technologies with as many countries as possible to accelerate the climate transition. but through patents you prefer to protect the profits of european multinationals, this time at the expense of the climate. in a pandemic, the logic would be that we should remove the intellectual property rights to the vaccine and allow any company around the world that wants to produce vaccines, but you prefer to protect the far-flung profits of the pharmaceutical giants that are guaranteed by these patents. my dear colleagues, a researcher recently told me that inequalities in health and access to vaccines and medicines are not unfortunate consequences of the system, but an integral part of the architecture of the system. this system was designed to reinforce and protect inequality. we must not strengthen this system, but overthrow it.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, i am very pleased with the results of the first meeting of the eu-us trade and technology council and would like to express my congratulations to the commission. i am a strong supporter of the trade and technology council: we must strive to set the global standards together as the eu and the us. this is a big challenge. chinese standardization is currently in full swing. if we don't set the tone, other powers will. mr dombrovskis, this must indeed be done on the basis of our shared values and it will not always be easy. we have the usa, which has a huge lead in data and a single capital market, with little regulation and a lot of room for experimentation, and the eu, which is not only lagging behind but also tends to regulate too much. the commission must therefore adopt incentive legislation without unnecessary obstacles. i also support mr dombrovskis' desire for a closer partnership. we need to put all the problems on the table: the protectionist "buy american act", the "jones act", and also the threatened tariffs on electric vehicles. a sustainable partnership must be based on openness and equality. finally, i would like to call for a move beyond the legislative dialogue and for the establishment of genuine transatlantic parliamentary cooperation.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, dear members, i’m really encouraged by this debate – with the warm support, but also with the level of detail and specificity. i think, in answering some of the questions, you have actually given part of the answers yourself. one of the main questions, of course, is what actually is the trade and technology council? because it cannot be a place where we sort of prejudge what will be the opinions of this house. i think that must be absolutely clear. but that doesn’t mean that it can be without effect. just as a side remark, i’d say that actually i’m quite happy that we can shake hands again because i think that shows that we have moved quite some lines, both in terms of the pandemic, but also in getting to a better relationship with colleagues in the us. i think what was said by anna—michelle asimakopoulou was very precise as a description of what the ttc is. because what we can do is we can exchange information, we can discuss things that we disagree on. we can align points of view and – i think very importantly – we can be specific. let me take the question of semiconductors. here what we have agreed is to collect information on both sides and then to establish a common analysis as to what are the reasons for the chip shortage that we are faced with right now. obviously, it’s really, really difficult to do something about it on short—term notice, but we can make our future, mid— and long—term actions, be informed by the causes for the short—term shortage that we are faced with right now. i think that those important insights will make our work also for the european chips act and for a european chips strategy so much more solid. the ten working groups are indeed different because they have a different focus. working groups, for instance, on standards, will not only be focusing on setting eu—us standards, but also on working together in multilateral standard—setting forums. i think it is not to be underestimated how important it is to have such early warning cooperation to know what is being brought up, what is at stake. because we know that there are others who want to set their standards also in multilateral standards—setting organisations. so, we can coordinate our approaches to key global technology, to economic issues, to trade issues, and because of that we can deepen transatlantic trade and economic relations, basing this on politics where our shared values get a specific concrete expression in real life. i think the second example of that is the work that we are doing on artificial intelligence. the first result was to align our point of view that the critical thing here is to have a risk—based approach, so that when ai is used in cases where fundamental values might be at stake, this is where we should focus. in order to make sure that we have an innovation—prone approach to artificial intelligence so that we can use it as much as possible. so the first step is to align our way of thinking. the next step is to see if we can develop common tools in order actually to see if common principles are being upheld. because there are thousands and thousands of producers, of coders, of programmers, of future users of ai, who would want to know how to make sure that they are on the right side of our principles. here, of course, we have an obligation to develop tools that will allow that to happen. as you’ll also see, we have a working group as to how to enable small and medium—sized businesses to be part of the technological development. i think that is really important, because the work we do here is actually to open the market so that small and medium—sized businesses will have a much bigger chance based on their merits, on their talent, on their ideas, on their work ethics, actually to get to their customers – which also, of course, chips into the question of platforms that i mentioned in my introduction. one of the things that i will mention to bridge into how the european parliament can be involved is the one—stop shop that valdis dombrovskis mentioned in his introduction, because outreach to stakeholders and the scrutiny of the european parliament is part of what can make the ttc a success. so, we have this website where one can both interact with us, but where also papers become available as soon as possible so that it is open as to what it is that we’re doing. i think that is very important. i hope that you will promote this in your constituencies for the different stakeholders for whom it is important. the meeting that we had under the leadership of a member of this parliament, bernd lange, with a number of other committee chairs being invited, is part of the answer to the question as to how the european parliament can be involved. i think this debate is also part of how the european parliament can be involved. and, of course, for us to prepare the next meeting, we will discuss in the set—up chosen by parliament as to how parliament can be involved in the preparation of the next meeting. last but not least, i share some of the remarks made about china. if you look at our ai proposal, you will see that there are use cases where we find it really crucial to say these uses are forbidden in the european union, because this is not a place of surveillance. this is a place where data belongs to people and not to the state. but i think the key to success of the ttc is that we want something with the americans and they want something with us, because we have something really strong in common: old democracies, strong fundamental values, the respect of the individual with the integrity of their dignity as the starting point. i think the only way to excel in this world is not to try to answer what other people are doing. it is to find our own way to excel, to over go, to show what we really are about. i think the ttc is part of that puzzle, next to all the many other things that this house is initiating, that this house is pushing the commission to do, that this house enables member states to do. only in that respect can we deliver to european voters what has been promised. thank you very much for the strong support and for this important debate.
in writing. the relations between the united states and the european union are complex and the brotherly bond between us cannot be summed up in a few words. that said, it is important to note that, although with president trump this relationship has suffered, the biden era is promising and would allow, if the european union gives it the means, to rebuild a strong bond. this link is necessary for our economies: in 2020, more than 164 000 european companies exported goods worth eur 353 billion. this reconstruction of the us-european friendship must go through the ttc. it should help both parties to settle their trade disputes. it must also be positive for citizens, both to demonstrate its value and to reinforce our common values. i've heard some of my colleagues worry about our involvement in the us-china rivalry. let's face it, china is a common threat to our interests both abroad and within our borders through their investments. to conceal this influence could only harm the interests of the union.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, reading this parliamentary report, one can still sense that something is rotten in the pharmaceutical sector. in particular, we read that many innovations presented to us offer no or very little improvement for the patient. we also read that multinational pharmaceutical companies are artificially extending the life of their patents, their monopoly, to make us pay more for medicines. frankly, you have to be brave. and the problem is that in the face of what you might call big pharma banditry, the strategy you propose is to collaborate more with these big pharma and let them influence our policies in a structural way. and to top it off, you're even going to pressure states that want to force big pharma to share drugs... i think that we need to change course and that a european pharmaceutical strategy should have as its primary objective to reduce our dependence on large multinational pharmaceutical companies. and, as the industry committee of this parliament is asking you, commissioner, it is time to create a public biomedical infrastructure in the european union.
a member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm very impressed with the debate that took place today. i thank you for the votes in favour of reform, but i have listened with respect and attention to the critical voices. we will take all of them into account in the commission as we work on the reform and the strategic plans. today is indeed a very important day. this is the biggest reform in 30 years. i am sure that today will one day be remembered as the most important day of my term in the commission. but this is not the end of reform. we are now completing a very important stage of the process, the legislative stage. we are adopting three major regulations. i would like to thank the members, in particular the rapporteur and all the members who have worked directly on this reform. we have reached the best compromise possible. every reform in the european union is born of compromise. this was a particularly difficult compromise, but i think we've reached the best compromise possible. but we have strategic plans ahead of us, of course, and the full picture of this reform will emerge from the strategic plans. we will see how much of this ambitious target member states include in their strategic plans. of course, the commission will do everything it can to ensure that these objectives are fully achieved, but it will be a difficult dialogue. and of course, how much of this reform will be implemented by the farmers themselves. i emphasize that this is a reform carried out not by force, but primarily by incentive. and i think that's a big chance for this reform to work. we'll be finishing up the legislative package soon. the commission is ready with secondary legislation, with delegated and implementing acts, but this is the most important stage, the strategic plans, and the commission declares - i want to remind you again - full transparency of its work. after three months, we'll publish the watch lists for the member states. maybe this will be an opportunity for another debate. the vote of parliament and the member states will be particularly important in order to make the best use of this period to implement the reform. i want to emphasize that in these strategic plans, i personally will be particularly concerned with justice. and here i want to express my conviction that small and mediumsized farms should be saved by this reform. these are the farms that we've lost in the last few years at a very rapid rate -- four million in a decade. every day, a thousand farmers were shutting down their operations. these were mainly small and medium-sized family farms. and it was a bad process, because these farms are not, contrary to what is sometimes said, less productive, on the contrary. there is a lot of statistical evidence that countries and regions with small farms have highly productive agriculture. so these farms, for sustainable development, must be an important part of european agriculture, they must be treated equally. we have a redistribution payment. i will do everything and the commission will do everything to ensure that it is actually implemented. we have the opportunity to support these farms through eco-schemes and here too we must make the most of it. and that's a very important part of the reform. the second thing is the green deal and how far we're going to go with it. some people - especially those opposed to this green architecture in the common agricultural policy - try to describe the green deal as an ideological project. no, i'm referring to the words of an authority figure, someone who once spoke in this house as a guest. i am thinking of john paul ii, the pope, who said that (specifically to the farmers) man must not be tempted to profit at any cost at the expense of nature, because nature will sooner or later rebel against man. and we're already seeing these manifestations of nature's rebellion, and farmers are experiencing them: droughts, floods, or even in this intensive farming, diseases like african swine fever or bird flu, these are already real threats and a certain image of nature's rebellion. that's why this green reform is so important for the future of agriculture. animal welfare, you know. i want to draw particular attention here to something that is of great interest to the public and that is also the reason for the criticism of agriculture, the intensive one in particular. we're really expanding our animal welfare capabilities here. in the past, only one and a half per cent of the european fund for rural development and less than half a per cent of the total common agricultural policy went to animal welfare. today, many times more. this could be tens of billions of euros in the first pillar through the animal welfare ecosystem, in the second pillar through welfare investments. that's a very important part of this reform. and once again, i want to thank you very much for this debate. and i would like to take this opportunity to thank once again the ten million farmers in the european union, the small, medium and large farmers - all of them - for the fact that we have food security in the european union, that even in the difficult times of the crisis there was no shortage of food anywhere in europe. together with farmers, we want to change agriculture to be more environmentally friendly, more climate friendly, more animal welfare friendly, but at the same time, the common agricultural policy is more farmer friendly. commission statementon further measures to protect the eu budget against fraud and irregularities by requiring an obligatory use of a single data mining tool provided by the commission ((in writing) in the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as well as on new own resources, including a roadmap for the introduction of new own resources, points 30 to 33 require the commission to make available an integrated and interoperable information and monitoring system including a single data-mining and risk-scoring tool to access and analyse the required data with a view to a generalised application by member states. the three institutions also agreed to cooperate in good faith, in the course of the legislative procedure relating to the relevant basic acts, to ensure the follow-up to the european council conclusions of july 2020 on this element. the commission welcomes the new provisions introducing the requirement for the commission to make available a single data-mining tool and on the publication of groups in the articles in the horizontal regulation, however, the approach agreed by the co-legislators for the cap does not adequately reflect the desired ambition and spirit of the interinstitutional agreement. however, the commission notes that similar to the agreement for the common provisions regulation, the use of the tool by the member states is not mandatory. therefore, in line with the statement made by the commission on the agreement reached by the co-legislators in the common provisions regulation, the commission considers that the agreement reached by the co-legislators for the cap under article 59 (2) (protection of the financial interests of the union) on the use of a single data-mining tool, and the collection and publication of data on groups under article 98 (transparency) does not sufficiently enhance the protection of the union budget against fraud and irregularities and to ensure efficient checks on conflicts of interest, irregularities, issues of double funding, and criminal misuse of funds. the commission therefore also welcomes the joint statement on the single data mining tool by the three institutions.
commissioner, thank you very much. we join the farmers in this thanksgiving. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. when we talk about agriculture in europe, we are faced with a double urgency. the emergency is both social and climate. the fundamental question is therefore whether the common agricultural policy which you are presenting will really and quickly take care of these two urgent problems. from a climate standpoint, no one believes that. ecological regimes could well be a condition for business as usual. and from a social point of view, does the cap meet the needs of small farmers who are no longer able to cope? will it stop the bleeding in small farms? will it bring a clean break to the area's appalling suicide rate? the answer, even those who will support this cap, is no. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there are alternatives. another model is possible. but you have chosen the interests of agro-industry, rather than choosing agro-ecology, rather than putting agriculture at the service of people and the planet.
mr president, thousands of illegal immigrants are storming our external borders. this weapon of illegal migration is being misused by autocratic leaders like lukashenko to undermine the stability of europe and threaten the security of our citizens. countries like poland are on the front lines and are asking for our help. this is the moment to show european solidarity. but what is the european commission doing? it simply fails poland and refuses to release the necessary funds to build border protection. unintelligible, cowardly and weak. we can only counteract the cynical blackmail of illegal immigration if we effectively secure our external borders with legal and physical barriers. any person who enters illegally must lose all right of residence and be returned immediately. by definition, shelter should be in the region of origin and not with us. it is time for a fundamentally different policy, certain boundaries for a secure future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the commission's initial proposals, we have therefore secured for 2022 additional investments of almost €500 million to achieve the political priorities of our parliament. i am thinking of research, our youth, smes and the green and digital transition, the health dimension, including the global vaccination effort, internal cohesion, external solidarity and respect for the rule of law. we owe this exceptional result to a united european parliament and to the cohesion of all the political groups working alongside our citizens on a daily basis. and with a budget of €169.5 billion and more than €140 billion in loans and grants under nextgenerationeu to support the recovery in 2022, we will need stronger budgetary control. that is why i have made a special effort to ensure that institutions such as the court of auditors and the european public prosecutor's office are provided with sufficient resources, both in terms of financial resources and capacity, to carry out their tasks fully, thus strengthening control of expenditure. we will ensure that taxpayers' money is effectively used to implement public policy which reflects the policies implemented by our governments.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a firm supporter of fair, rules-based free trade. this creates prosperity, quality jobs, development and stability. for that we need a multilateral regulator and arbiter, but unfortunately the world trade organisation is in a deep crisis today. she's not able to make deals. the rules are not adapted to the digital world and the dispute settlement is blocked. in the light of this and in order to find a solution, we can support the main lines of this resolution. first of all, harmful subsidies to fisheries must be stopped. secondly, we want to make progress on sustainable and digital trade. finally, we want to see the creation of a working group with a clear mandate for reform of the wto by unblocking dispute settlement, by opening up the possibility of multilateral agreements between the front runners and by correctly distinguishing between developed and developing countries. let us work with the united states and other like-minded democratic countries to achieve this. however, my group cannot approve the resolution unambiguously. we regret the passage on the abolition of patents for vaccines. this is what is called innovative research and development, which is the very lever of our future prosperity. what we need is a drastic increase in production capacity and free delivery through covax and/or at production cost. i hope that the positive proposals of the commission will enable us to reach an agreement in geneva.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of our trade flows are now hindering the achievement of the sustainable development goals. in particular, international trade is responsible for 30% of our co2 emissions, 30% of greenhouse gases and the loss of biodiversity worldwide. i often hear that trade should not serve other agendas, but it should not serve them either. trade must serve the agenda of fair globalisation that respects the sustainable development goals, which are universally recognised as capable of ensuring a better and more sustainable future for all. two important summits have just taken place, the biodiversity summit and the climate summit. the g7 trade ministers have made these issues a priority in the wto. the world economic forum points to these issues as major risks. it is not an ecological whim to demand that the european union put the green deal on the agenda of international trade rules. the european union must also rise to the challenges of the 21st century.
president. - mr president, we see that covax is failing hopelessly. the promised surplus vaccines are not delivered or are late. often, these are doses that we want to discard because they are close to their expiry date or because they offer little protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the promised cooperation with africa and the pharmaceutical industry is also a smokescreen. in practice, this will not allow africa to scale up production itself, because there is no real transfer of technology. it is simply a relocation, driven by the pharmaceutical industry and paid for by europe. we urgently need affordable vaccines for everyone. the commission's short-sightedness has only paved the way for the delta variant, which is now affecting even vaccinated people. and then we're just talking about europe, where most people are already double vaccinated and where we have booster shots, while less than 10 percent of the african population has had access to the vaccine. this inequality is a symptom of a deeply flawed policy. i therefore call on the commission: i support the abolition of patents now. show us our leadership and put human lives above the profits of the pharmaceutical industry.
i would just like to say that unfortunately we do not have this blue card procedure. i have noticed that there is a need for discussion and comment on what my colleague has said, but unfortunately that is not possible. but you, who have the floor, of course you can do it.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a little confused here. after two years of covid, are we still talking about how to give the world a vaccine? you can't help but laugh at these rumors, can you? because for the past year, india, south africa, the world health organization, about a hundred countries have been telling you how to do this, which is by lifting the patents and sharing the technology, to allow countries all over the world to produce a vaccine, so that researchers all over the world can improve the vaccine, work on it, fight the variants... and for a year you've been stubborn, you've refused. you think you're smarter than the rest of the world? well, no, i'm sorry, but i'm not going to do it. there is a solution. we need to tell the president of the european commission to stop secretly texting the ceo of pfizer and start lifting the patents, because people have a right to do that. so now, you take your clicks and your clacks, you go to geneva, south africa, india are waiting for you, and you go to them and you tell them that you accept their offer. this is solidarity. the world is watching. we're waiting.
mr president, commissioner, winter is coming, winter is upon us and it is time for the balance sheet, your balance sheet. the european commission promised us that liberalizing energy would guarantee low prices, that the market would solve all our problems. fifteen years ago, you won that battle. the traditional parties, both right and left, have accepted; our state-owned enterprises have been destroyed and our energy has been transferred to the hands of the big multinationals total, engie, electrabel, etc. fifteen years later we can make a balance, not just of your policy, but of your whole liberal ideology. the market would be open to competition. no, some players will dictate the wet and dominate the markt. the market would be for the price of care. we have never paid so much for our gas and electricity. your policy, commissioner, is a complete failure. people feel it, see it on their bill. then please abandon your dogmas. let us take the public control of energy prices and production.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i was in slovenia with the european parliament delegation. i saw a very beautiful country, with a very ugly political debate. leaders of national institutions told us that they were able to do their work independently and without fear. i believe them. journalists and ngos also told us they were under attack from many sides. i believe them as well. what slovenia needs, and what most of our member states need, is a good dose of decency in the public debate. less moralistic, more diplomatic; less sexist, more polite. in many european countries we see a crisis of trust. i am convinced that where politicians, policymakers and opinion makers engage in the public debate in a dignified manner, trust will return. trust does not equal agreement, but trust is essential to find workable compromises. it’s good that slovenia’s national press agency is now funded again. it’s good that slovenia has finally nominated two interim prosecutors for the european public prosecutor’s office. not soon enough, unfortunately, but good it’s finally happening. with all the challenges facing us these days, we need more of those solutions. more of those compromises. more dialogue for flemish citizens, for slovenian citizens, and for all of us inside the eu.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks before the end of the slovenian presidency, we are relieved to learn that the european public prosecutor's office has been appointed as a delegated prosecutor for five years, and i am delighted that it is now fully operational. slovenia is also joining the fight against fraud and corruption in relation to the european budget. but why does prime minister janez janša, who delayed and then blocked the appointment of the deputy prosecutors, call these appointments temporary? i would like to understand and, above all, that any doubt be removed as to the will to reform the procedures for appointing prosecutors and to establish an independent judiciary in the country, which would constitute yet another violation of the rule of law. today we want a firm and unambiguous commitment from slovenia so that we can conclude once and for all our discussions on these appointments and to mark slovenia's return to the train of democracy, an independent judiciary, respect for the rule of law, freedom of the press, the opposition and civil society. universal values which we want to continue to share with the slovenian people.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, i have many concerns about mr lehne's presentation, for which i thank him. a significant error rate, high in the areas of competitiveness, cohesion and high-risk expenditure; the balance to be liquidated, which exceeds 300 billion; the commission has also taken note of the fact that the member states' absorption capacity remains very problematic and, finally, there is a lack of clarity on recovery and timing. i am therefore concerned about the amounts to be spent in the coming years, namely the 1 800 billion planned for the next multiannual financial framework. i can only encourage both the commission and the member states to make data mining tools more widespread and to systematize the use of new technologies to improve controls overall. given the money committed, especially for nextgenerationeu, we will have to live up to the expectations of our fellow citizens. the european union must enable member states to redeploy their economies, but also to implement our policies - the green deal, horizon europe, the digital transition. we can only do this fully if we manage the funds in the best way possible. in this context, i welcome the fact that, during the recent negotiation of the 2022 budget, parliament's negotiators succeeded in winning additional resources for the court of auditors from the council. we will have to ensure that every euro spent is spent for the direct benefit of the people of europe, and it is up to the commission to do everything possible to meet this requirement.
mr president, i would like to share a short story that many of you have probably heard already from a neighbour, from a family member, from a friend, or maybe it was your own experience. the girl came to my office. she told me that it was 11 years ago. she was 11 years old and the man was someone that the family knew. she was raped. she told me that this year her mother finished paying the debt that she contracted to pay lawyers. and what for? for no justice. this girl was strong. she’s going to become a police officer, because she wants to help fight sexual crimes. but if, for every mayor, every policy-maker, the european commission, the european parliament, for all of us, law enforcement is not becoming a reality, this girl will have become a police officer for nothing. is her daughter, in turn, going to tell a story like this to a policy-maker? this is just one of the many examples of problems that women are facing, and together we need to make change happen. this is only what i wanted to share with you.
madam president, as a black woman and a secular muslim, as the mother of a girl, as a daughter of a victim of polygamy and marital captivity, as a survivor of female genital mutilation, as an elected member of this chamber, and as a broken, but standing, woman, i am here with you today, furious and ashamed of how little this parliament cares about the universal rights of women and pretends that we are all equal. but women like me – women like the many secular muslim women across the eu – are not allowed to hope and prosper because you and i, who have the power to change things, have repeatedly chosen to let them down and be a team of traitors to their freedom. why do you say you are against the enslavement of women when the only muslim women you care about are those who are far away? you don’t care about the ones who live on the corner of your street. and you claim that the european way of life is for all of us. i can stand here without my brother’s and my husband’s permission. but that is not thanks to this house. will the women who still can’t, and their daughters, be able to count on you? will the women who are threatened be able to count on your support? i call on you today, as a lawmaker, to look into the lives of muslim women and not only give them hope, but also a real chance.
on behalf of the s&d group, i now invite evelyne gebhardt to take the floor, and i think i also speak on behalf of all this parliament when we thank you for your service to this house for all these years.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. dear tiemo, thank you for the kind words you found for me. in fact, it is my last major project in this european parliament, and i am very glad that we have succeeded in getting something very positive, something very good, through. even if i have not been able to achieve everything that i had imagined as a social democrat, it is still possible to show what we have achieved, what we have achieved - even against the will of a part of this house, the right wing of this house. and i very much hope that in the negotiations with the council and with the help of the european commission, which will hopefully - unlike in other areas - also take the european parliament's side, we will be able to achieve what we have achieved. the new rules will prevent big tech companies from exploiting their market power in the same way as before. in recent years, the influence of tech giants has increased rapidly, but not to the benefit of consumers or smaller businesses. large digital platforms, known as gatekeepers, favour their own offerings over those of competitors, control access to the online world and create dependencies. i am particularly proud of one point - in addition to what tiemo has already said about interoperability - that we have succeeded in finding a good wording for the so-called targeted ads - for personalised advertising - even though i would have liked to have enforced a complete ban in this area. because profiling the way people live, who they are, is the last thing we can let go of. and to make sure that the most vulnerable in society, namely minors, are protected, and to ban personalized advertising to minors is something that is very, very close to my heart. i would ask you, mr schwab, as rapporteur, to ensure that this is actually implemented in future. we know that the european commission and the majority of the council do not share this view. and i would, however, see this as one of the most important conditions for ensuring that we actually enforce protection for the most vulnerable in our society, the minors. this is very important. we have reached many other points which i cannot mention here. but also that there is a possibility for the european commission to ban killer acquisitions temporarily or even completely is one of those issues that has been hotly debated, but also enforced. yes, we have made a good, very good proposal as a parliament. we did a good job. we're glad we can get on with it now. and we have to make sure that the best of it is now for the future of our society, for freedom, for what we have always wanted: to create good politics for the people, for the citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, honourable vice-president, honourable commissioner, dear colleagues, i am not just happy to speak in favour of the digital markets act (dma) today, but i also want to give praise to commissioner vestager and commissioner breton for their excellent proposal. as renew europe, we have long fought for a unified single market where all businesses, whether big or small, should be able to compete freely and fairly. in short, the dma is about freedom. the dma will create more freedom for consumers to choose between platforms and applications. consumers will have more choice, over how their data is used and for what purposes. the dma will create more freedom to innovate, by setting clear and fair rules for the most powerful players in the field. for us as renew europe, it was always clear that the dma must not aim to punish foreign companies, but to protect european consumers. the dma should have a common european approach. renew europe argued for the involvement of member states through the competition and other relevant authorities, while preserving the leading role of the commission to make final decisions. the dma must increase consumer choices not limit them. some groups wanted to completely ban whole business sectors, like targeted advertisements, but renew europe believes that consumers should have a right to choose if they want to see targeted ads or not. the sooner we are able to implement the dma, the sooner our consumers and businesses will profit from a stronger, more unified and more innovative single market.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioners, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr schwab, for all his work. i would also like to express my support for mr schwab’s approach towards developing a position that takes account of the views across parliament. my group supports the general objective behind the digital markets act (dma) and the commission’s original intent to tackle a limited number of behaviours and practices as a priority. we support moving the dma forward into trilogues, but caution that some additional ideas will require a deeper consideration and revision, in order to avoid there being penalties on the very companies we want the dma to help. this is the case of targeted advertising, where my group is cautious about revising advertising rules, particularly as small businesses find it crucial to be able to easily and cost-effectively reach their audience. additionally, i believe the outcome of the trilogues should avoid any unintended consequences for smaller companies, given that this proposal is intended to reinforce their continuing and improved competitiveness in the european digital market. indeed, the dma must lead to improvements for businesses across europe and not just a few companies who have a bone to pick with the digital giants. i am also focused on making sure that the dma can be implemented. in this regard. i am happy to see the ecr’s approach to a true regulatory dialogue process maintained, and national experts involved in managing the dma roll-out. i believe this will be crucial to creating a dma that delivers for all.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. the digital single market needs a structure that protects innovative, smaller companies on the one hand and users on the other from the crushing dominance of monopolies. the report contains good news in this respect: faster legal procedures for corporate non-compliance, appropriate fines and the possibility of structural interventions to limit the market power of big tech. consumers can also enjoy the interoperability of exhibitions and social media, and they can be confident when browsing without being tricked into unwanted data-absorption by so-called dark patterns, i.e. unfair confusion tactics. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the dma must, in my view, cover all, not just a handful of monopolies in the digital market. it is irrelevant to competitors and users whether the exploitation of their market position is carried out by a us, chinese or european company. the report also calls for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the electronic communications sector. secondly, we need to ban personalised advertising and end the attention-seeking business model. we need to stop dumping more and more trash, hate and violence into the timeline so that users stay on the platform longer, so that their sensitive data can be used commercially. thank you for your cooperation and for your attention.
madam president, madam vice-president, commissioner, this week we voted on the digital markets act, one of the most important proposals for our single market in this legislature. i must congratulate the commission, which after 20 years finally brings forward a proposal that is in line with the needs of the digital market in relation to the internet giants. this proposal is of vital importance to our smes. far from going against anyone, it seeks to create a level playing field for our smes, so that they can compete on equal terms and with the same rules of the game as the digital giants. until now we have not had clear legislation to regulate how these giants act within our market. with this proposal we are creating legal certainty. any company is certainly welcome, as long as it complies with our way of doing things, what we have called the 'european way'. the privacy of our data is fundamental and therefore we have opted for transparency. we want to have our own way of managing in the digital realm and not the one imposed on us from outside. until now we could only act in terms of ex post competitive behaviour. with the ex ante mechanism proposed today, we want to make it easier for our smes to grow in the digital environment, generating jobs and wealth, and being globally competitive. the digital markets act puts us at the forefront of the world. europe is again leading the way in digital regulation, as we are already doing in data protection with the general data protection regulation. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, andreas schwab, and the other rapporteurs for having done so in the time allotted in the midst of the pandemic, and i hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible and in line with the line set by the rapporteurs, who have worked with a great willingness to compromise.
i have to say, madam president, commissioners, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. so we're in the process of taking the fight and taking control back from the big tech giants. when we vote on the digital markets act, the dma, later today, we will be putting our foot down in front of the biggest tech gatekeepers who have been able to dictate the rules of our digital single market for far too long. we in the european parliament want this to stop now. the rules must be set democratically. together with the digital services act, the dsa, we are setting the framework for a fairer digital sphere for the benefit of users, consumers and businesses alike. we are now ensuring that the business model of the biggest tech giants is more beneficial to users, and we are creating the framework for more free and fair competition so that new ones can also emerge. we are introducing interoperability requirements. i think this is an important tool in the fight against the monopoly of platforms. and we're sending a clear signal that the major platforms need to rethink their business model, which is based on harvesting and selling our personal data. with dma, targeted advertising to minors is now illegal for the biggest gatekeepers. it's an important step in the fight to ensure that we stop the extreme harvesting of our data by the big platforms. finally, i am also very pleased that a ban on so-called dark patterns has been included in the dma. now it's going to be forbidden for the biggest companies to influence our decisions by designing their interfaces in a way that unconsciously makes us act. we have to stop this. so, all in all, i think the dma is an important step towards us consumers getting back control of our personal data and ensuring a much better and more well-functioning internal market. let me end by saying a big thank you to my colleague evelyne gebhardt for her great work on this issue, but also for her 28 years of service to europe. i think that deserves a big thank you. thank you for that and thank you for the great effort with the dma, also to mr schwab.
madam president, the companies covered by this law are companies so big that they have annual profits bigger than the gdp of some of our member states. being so big is not in itself a negative. they are big because people like them and many of our citizens look forward to their next release. with this size, however, must come responsibility. these companies should act in such a way that they serve the needs of the greater society, instead of what is good for their shareholders alone. i regret, that despite their best efforts, these efforts have not been enough. so here we are today, doing by law what these companies should have done on their own. commissioner, i still think that any start—up can someday take down one of the gatekeepers. i still think that consumers will vote with their wallets and their eyes, and new alternatives will come, and one of the giants will fall. but we must give consumers and start—ups a chance and a choice. and today we do so.
madam president, we are well aware of the importance of regulating digital markets in an era of digital integration. we also know that we are always chasing after losses, and that is why this proposal is an important proposal, although not sufficient. it's important to fight the monopoly of the five platforms that control the digital markets. it's also important to combat the control these digital platforms have over our data. in fact, this data is from citizens and citizens and that's not how it's been happening. but more important than that would be to have eliminated advertising targeted to all people. this is a key element in market control and unfortunately in this proposal targeted advertising is only eliminated for minors. anyway, it's a first step, as i said. a first step that helps us in such important measures as interoperability. but we must do more and i hope that the ambition of this proposal will not be reduced further.
madam president, this digital markets act is very good news for europe and for the world. at long last, we’re making progress to bring the massive tech players that shape our lives under some democratic oversight. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) is proposing many good amendments, but let me stress one that other colleagues have already mentioned today, the one demanding interoperability. this relates to something that i have very much at my heart because those of us that are subject to political persecution and espionage must choose our providers carefully to protect our privacy, but this often means that we will be cut off from our friends and family. interoperability, if it becomes a reality, should put an end to that, and i hope it will make life easier for dissidents, democracy fighters and activists across the eu. it will certainly help me. speaking of activists, i cannot miss this chance to remember julian assange after the recent bad news. he has my full support and i call again for his immediate release. i urge all european democrats to do the same.
madam president, we are all becoming more aware of the importance of the digital world. that's why i'm glad we're here today to talk about the digital markets act. it sets the rules ex ante and therefore makes the necessary rules transparent. big companies have taken over the online space, and we often see this position being abused and market distortions. we need to protect fair competition, and what's illegal in the offline space has to be illegal online. if companies have access to user information, they must also be responsible for its content. advertising on the internet must be transparent, it must be clear who is the client and who is the promoter. the data collected must be better protected and everyone must have the right to request their complete erasure or to refuse to provide them. the digital markets act also modernises and clearly defines competition. it is essential that fair competition is maintained and that small firms in particular have access to information, but also the possibility of targeting their customers. today we are proposing a regulation that will not only create rules for the big players, but will also protect users of digital platforms and not burden small businesses. thank you very much, andreas, for such a proposal and for your great commitment. ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this proposal, we are establishing standards that have the potential to become global standards for the benefit of citizens.
madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done on this great and important document. for too long, the internet has grown and changed without any control. in the more than 20 years since the last regulation, the internet has changed dramatically, occupying our daily lives, becoming both a necessity and a pastime. it has become both a source of great profit for some and a great threat to others. as much as 98.5% of facebook's revenue and 83.3% of google's revenue is generated by advertising. citizens are often unaware of how big platforms are profiting from our data, moods, health conditions, interests and so on. if we were being followed on the street, it would be illegal, but on the internet, anything goes. i welcome the ban on the tracking of minors online for advertising purposes, and the easier control of advertising for adults. the commission will also be able to use the existing data to provide a more accurate picture of the situation in the member states. in light of the recent judgment against google, which seems to be a drop in the bucket, it is very important to ensure market transparency. everyone must have the same initial incentive to succeed, small and large. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
mr. chairman, facebook, google, amazon and apple and other tech companies have simply become too big and too powerful to be healthy. that is because they are monopolists for whom there is no competition. it allows them to accumulate unlimited capital, allowing them to concentrate unchecked power, allowing them to manipulate both the market and our democracy. they are companies that want to do business everywhere, but nowhere to pay fair taxes. they're companies that violate the privacy of our citizens. they're companies that want to dictate what our culture and identity should look like. they are companies that benefit from the hyper-flexible global economy, where there will always be someone forced to sell their labour for ever-less pay and ever-less social protection. those who disagree with this parasitic, globalist model, who censor and block them from their platforms, because they don't want to be contradicted, because they don't want their interests to be harmed. these soulless multinational companies are owned by an oligarchy of anonymous shareholders who know no culture, identity or nationality and are accountable to no one. they want to take over the authority of states and exchange cultures. they want to transform free and sovereign citizens into submissive, rightsless, shapeless and interchangeable consumers. the arrogance of these multinational tech companies who think they can get away with anything must come to an end. the rights of citizens, consumers and small businesses are guaranteed by the democratic rule of law and the sovereign will of the people, not by the shareholders and the user agreement. that is why i think the digital markets act is a good step in the right direction.
mr. chairman, i support the negotiating mandate for the digital markets act. the omnipotence of big tech is currently preventing fair competition in our internal market, depriving our smes of growth opportunities or even making them disappear altogether, and this is at the expense of our innovative strength. it is clear that the current competition rules are not sufficient to create a level playing field in our digital single market. that is why our regulation must indeed become more proactive, taking into account the digital speed. but we must not allow our regulations to become protectionist. the us is and will remain an important partner in jointly setting global digital standards in the face of china's advancing. we must not undermine the functioning of the trade and technology council.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, humanitarian action is faced with three major dangers. first, the constant threat of aid being privatised. we will not stop saying that humanitarian action cannot be a business opportunity, nor can the crisis become a pretext for deepening the doctrines of shock. if crises like the pandemic we are currently experiencing increase humanitarian needs, the solution is to free patents and not to put pharmaceutical multinationals at the global governance table. secondly, the continuing geopolitical exploitation of humanitarian crises in pursuit of interests that have nothing to do with humanitarian objectives. a good example of this is the impunity for humanitarian crises such as those in the occupied sahara or palestine, or hypocritical calls for increased humanitarian aid in the mediterranean while at the same time strengthening the mechanisms of fortress europe, which, in the end, generate new humanitarian crises such as those being seen in libya. the third threat has to do with the criminalization of humanitarian actors, something we see on a daily basis in the mediterranean. saving lives is not a crime. practicing racist policies and buying into the xenophobic agenda of the far right should be. i hope that this good report will help to combat these three traps of privatization, instrumentalization and criminalization of european humanitarian aid.
mr president it is gratifying to note that the european union and its member states together provide 36 percent of global humanitarian assistance. this leadership must be maintained and made even more effective in the future so that aid really reaches those in need. humanitarian emergencies are linked to migration, as the increased frequency and intensity of climate-related disasters fuels conflict and forces more and more people to leave their homes permanently. however, the rapporteur was right not to make the mistake of urging the creation of corridors for migrants for this reason. the report thus focuses on real problems and real needs. it is our firm and consistent principle that help should be brought to the place of need. the results support this approach. with our humanitarian support through the hungary helps programme, we have enabled half a million people to stay in their homeland or return to their homes.
mr. chairman, more people than ever are in need of humanitarian aid. ladies and gentlemen, according to the report, as i believe you have seen, there are two hundred and thirty-eight million people in need of assistance because of conflict, a number of factors such as natural disasters, limited resources. the fact that the european union is affected by a pandemic and that we are in a crisis of access to energy must not result in the humanitarian field being neglected. the european commission's communication 'humanitarian action by the european union: new challenges, the same principles' is key to defining new directions for the union's humanitarian action. i therefore support the measures it outlines, such as increased eu support for local aid providers or the extension of the funding mechanism with humanitarian partners. humanitarian aid is an integral component of european policy and on it we build our identity and the distinctiveness of our approach to countries in need without calculating or conditioning aid on economic dependence. what remains an ongoing challenge is how to ensure that humanitarian aid actually reaches those who need it most. this is particularly important in countries governed by authoritarian non-democratic regimes and countries facing internal unrest and conflict. we must also be prepared for the fact that humanitarian needs will increase further and that they will also pose a security challenge to which we will have to find a common response. ladies and gentlemen, humanity is the civilized achievement. her concept hasn't changed. we must therefore focus all our energies on the dignity of every human being and humanity has shown in the past year and a little bit that it is something that has no price and no alternative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone agrees that there are growing needs in the financing of humanitarian aid. as far as reducing the financing deficit is concerned, let us stop being hypocritical. the lack of financial resources has one or more names. name each member state that has pledged since the beginning of time to devote at least 0.7% of its gross national income to official development assistance. at the addis ababa conference six years ago, the commission was authorised to renew, on behalf of all the member states of the european union, the commitment to devote 0.7% of their gross national income to official development assistance. two member states had the audacity to announce a substantial reduction in their official development assistance shortly after the conference. is this policy coherence? i am addressing you - the commission - to urge you to confront each member state with its commitments. the opportunity to do so will present itself as early as 2022 at the first humanitarian aid forum. there is no point in lamenting the plight of the victims of humanitarian crises if we are not prepared to devote the necessary resources, which have been promised many times since then. i would not like to end without thanking our colleague norbert neuser. with his departure, the development committee of our parliament loses one of its best talents. we're losing a pillar of the community. i wish norbert neuser to have good memories of us, and he can count on our sincere reciprocity.
i thank you very much, mr goerens. i have not interrupted you now because you have not really exceeded your speaking time. i am grateful to mr neuser for allowing me to join him, even though i am not a member of his committee.
mr president, never in history have so many people in the third world been in dire need, namely a quarter of a billion. causes are wars, corrupt regimes, food and water shortages and, of course, the population explosion. every year the population of the underdeveloped countries increases by 80 million. that is an untenable situation. and what are we gonna do about it? we import their surplus population, with all the problems it causes our own population, and we dump billions into bottomless wells. the eu is already the largest donor in the world, but according to all the other groups, that is apparently not enough. of course, we must help people in times of sudden natural disasters and other calamities. but the causes of chronic problems must be addressed. donating billions more and more and bringing millions of refugees here is not the solution. in the end, our social security system is also in danger. to put it in a metaphor: our lifeboat will sink too if they take more and more and more people on board. it can and must be done differently: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the world's population is threatened to rise from 7.5 to 11 billion people this century. it is insane to think that we europeans can be responsible for the additional billions of hungry people in the world.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on the report on greater democracy at work. if there's one important lesson we can take from the pandemic, it's about the future of our jobs. we must focus on quality jobs with decent working conditions, and for that we need a strong involvement of the social partners. we have already taken a number of initiatives in this house in recent months, and the commissioner has already referred to them: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to asbestos. but in the elaboration of all these initiatives, the strong involvement of the social partners in the workplace is an absolute prerequisite. whereas european integration has been deepening over the past decades, european workers' rights have not been followed. the strength of employee participation has actually declined over the past decade. a eurofound study shows that only 30% of european companies provide for employee participation. however, strong employee involvement leads to better wages and higher job satisfaction. it also helps to put an end to social dumping and unfair competition. it is clear that strong participation of workers' organisations will be crucial to make the post-pandemic recovery and the digital and green transition a success.
president, being powerful is like being a lady. if you have to tell people you are, then you aren't, thatcher said. the problem with the eu is that it has to emphasize far too often that it has power. have you noticed that this is becoming less and less impressive? it smells mostly like glory days. it's a little depressing, right? will this last european council of the year be the first to offer hope and action? or is there nothing under the christmas tree but empty words and symbolic politics? ladies and gentlemen, this commission is ambitious. happy, but not decisive. i'm afraid that's not true. how will the council contribute to making the long-awaited progress on migration, women's rights, energy or our place in the world? china is taking over africa. the eu is feeling putin's hot breath on its neck. the humiliation by erdoğan continues. and it is not the arrogance of the americans that is making us look bad, but the naivety of the high representative, the internal divisions within the eu and the cow trade in this house. will france change this and restore the confidence of the citizens? 'relance, puissance, appartenance', president macron announced the priorities of his forthcoming presidency. - what about power? will macro then deliver on his promises of women's rights versus religious extremism at eu level? that should be the new year's resolution and preferably one that is kept. otherwise, we're the turkey on christmas eve. ♪ but don't mention christmas they say ♪
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this morning we have been speaking about the battle we are waging against covid—19. mr weber described it as a war, and indeed it’s a battle for human lives, it’s a battle for a return to life as we knew it before pandemia, and it’s a battle for minimising the consequences of covid—19 on jobs and the economy. mr mureşan and mr séjourné told us that the best response to these unprecedented challenges was european unity. i agree with them because, thanks to this european unity, we secured enough vaccines for europeans to already have managed to fully vaccinate 66% of our fellow citizens and we became, in a short period of time, the biggest manufacturer of vaccines. i would underline – which we never should forget – that we are also the biggest exporter of vaccines in the world. we have exported more than 1.4 billion doses so far, and this is more than anybody else. we know that other major economies have simply been closed for exporting to anyone with the exception of their own citizens. i think that we should be really proud of that because we supply to the world more than we supply to ourselves. the same goes for eu donations. we have donated so far 377 million doses through covax and 50 million additional doses bilaterally through the team europe effort, especially to countries of the western balkans and the eastern partnership. so i would say that it’s again the european union which delivers when others, very often with huge public relations noises, are just promising. i recognise that for many members of the european parliament, as was very well presented by ms iratxe garcía pérez, the issue of patents and the negotiations in the wto is very important. so here let me underline that it’s actually the commission which is engaging the most in these discussions. what we are trying to do is to find a solution which waives certain obligations in the trips agreement without the consent of the patent owners and that will have an effect on the ground. we advocate a solution that would clarify or waive certain obligations on compulsory licensing, to allow wto members to authorise a company to manufacture and export covid—19 pharmaceutical products in a fast and simplified manner. this would also ensure that countries with no, or insufficient, manufacturing capacity do not face any obstacles or legal uncertainty when they import these products. the details are part of the negotiating process, but the main principles are maximum simplification, speed and no red tape. in addition, a number of clarifications, including on supporting manufacturers that supply low and medium—income countries at affordable prices, would provide the needed legal certainty because the full waiving of patent and other rights under the trips agreement would not in itself help reach the objective of the widest and most timely distribution of covid—19 vaccines. on the contrary, we need measures that preserve the ongoing, unprecedented collaborations between pharmaceutical companies that yield record supplies of vaccines, as well as incentives to innovate and invest in research on covid—19 and its variants. all these elements must go hand in hand if we are to support the increase in production facilities in regions such as africa. production will not increase if there is no transfer of know—how and investment. for that to happen, we need the intellectual property framework which secures the rights of innovators. furthermore, we promote a comprehensive approach where intellectual property is just part of the solution. as the president has already outlined, we are also preparing, ahead of the eu—africa summit, the special support package to africa, not just doses of vaccines but also medical equipment and know—how. we also work, as team europe, with our partners in senegal, rwanda, south africa and the private sector to construct mrna vaccine production sites. many honourable members want us to help africa as much as we can, and we acknowledge this. we said from the beginning that we will not be safe until the whole world is properly vaccinated. therefore you will see that there will be lots of preparation invested in the eu—africa summit, which we want to have as a big success and a milestone in our mutual relations and collaboration. ms cavazzini referred to the excellent work of the scientists from south africa. i really want to officially appreciate their work, thank them for their transparency and thank them for their openness. you will agree with me that, at the moment when the news about this new variant first broke, we needed to act very quickly to assess the risk. but we are also acting very quickly now because what we are now proposing is that non—essential travel from this country could resume with vaccinations and a negative pcr certificate. so we want to make sure that this issue will be settled as quickly as possible. once again, huge appreciation to south african scientists for the work and openness. mr buşoi referred to the fact that vaccines are our main preventive tool to fight the pandemic but, even with vaccines and with this new variant, omicron, what we also need is good cooperation and progress in therapeutics. i think this is becoming even more important and urgent right now, because if people fall ill they need to be properly treated. we presented our strategy on covid therapeutics last may, but what is very important for you to know is that we should have six therapeutics authorised by the end of the year. four are authorised already and we expect that two will come through the approval process before the end of the year. what we are doing right now is supporting our member states to have access to these therapeutics, and we have already concluded two joint procurement contracts for the purchase of monoclonal antibodies. on 13 december, we launched the joint procurement for two more to be concluded early in 2022. if you allow, i will conclude with a couple of words on russia, ukraine, energy and the green deal because many honourable members referred to their concerns over the massive build—up of a military presence along the eastern ukrainian border. i would like to reaffirm once again our unwavering commitment to ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. on top of our close political cooperation, we have so far supported ukraine, as you know, with more than eur 40 billion since 2014. we are also working in other sectors, and i would say that we are collaborating very closely in all areas, from energy to critical raw materials. we are supporting ukraine with structural reforms, with modernising the administration, and we have also been faithful to the task given to us by the european council when they asked us to come forward with options if the situation were to become more dramatic and if there were to be a danger of further escalation or further aggression against ukraine. we have the options ready, we are prepared to act and we will present the options to the european council tomorrow. but we do of course, also this time, appeal for peaceful resolution, for de—escalation and for using diplomatic channels to work on a solution. if you allow me, i will close on the issue of energy and our green policies because this was very much present in the interventions by mr lamberts, mr eickhout, mr geier and ms spyraki. i think that we demonstrated very clearly throughout this year, with our green deal package, with fit for 55, with our clear leadership in cop 26 in glasgow, but also in our package which we adopted just yesterday, that we are very clearly the global leader when it comes to tackling climate change. we are the only major economy which translates our political aspirations into law and concrete measures. once we come and present to you in greater detail the package of further measures which we adopted yesterday and which tackles the issues of the hydrogen industry, energy security, and the modernisation of our transport, getting ten—t infrastructure ready for smart mobility, that will be further testimony in that regard. the issue of energy prices is, of course, very high on our agenda and we are working with our member states to make sure that they will deploy fully the toolbox which we offered to them to tackle energy poverty, help the most vulnerable and make sure that all these opportunities are used to the maximum. to conclude, i would like to thank my colleague, mr logar, for the excellent work of the slovenian presidency, and i think we can all symbolically welcome the new presidency of france here in the city of strasbourg.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, to conclude, i would like to make some brief remarks on issues that were raised during today’s discussion. there was a question about what the council was doing with regard to booster shots. well, while deciding on vaccination and boosters is a national competence, the council provides a forum for member states to discuss, collaborate and exchange best practices and experience, including on bottlenecks, and i expect it will do so at this summit too. the council has been working on the update of the council recommendation on travel within the eu, including as regards the validity of vaccination certificates. there was the question regarding the role of gas and nuclear in taxonomy. i inform you that the council has been vigorously asking the commission to swiftly provide clarity on the pending taxonomy delegated act, in order to facilitate the planning of future energy investments. the commission has announced that it will adopt a complementary climate delegated act before the end of this year, covering certain activities not yet covered in the first climate delegated act. this complementary delegated act is expected to cover nuclear energy, subject to and consistent with the result of the specific review process in accordance with the eu taxonomy regulation, as well as natural gas and related technology as transitional activities. to those who expressed doubts about the sincere will to foster a green transition, yesterday the council (i.e. the presidency) and the european parliament negotiators reached a provisional political agreement on the ten-e regulation. among others, we therefore jointly agreed to end support for new natural gas and oil projects and to introduce mandatory sustainability criteria for all projects. spoštovane poslanke in poslanci, najlepša hvala za današnjo razpravo za vaše pripombe, s katerimi bomo seznanili predsednika evropskega sveta. naj povzamem: to zasedanje evropskega sveta ima obsežen dnevni red. voditelji in voditeljice se bodo posvetili trenutni krizi zaradi pandemije covid-19, kar je bila tudi ključna tema današnje razprave. hkrati pa bodo voditelji in voditeljice nadaljevali že opravljene razprave o cenah energije, o migracijah ter pripravili prihodnje ukrepe v zvezi z obrambo in odnosi z afriško unijo. to so vprašanja, ki so ključnega pomena za zdravje, za varnost in za zaščito državljank in državljanov evropske unije in kljub težkim okoliščinam, ki smo jim priča zaradi covida, bo tudi ta vrh potekal v fizični obliki. dovolite mi še besedo dve ob sklepnem dejanju slovenskega predsedstva tu v evropskem parlamentu. danes zadnjič nastopam v vlogi visokega predstavnika sveta eu za sodelovanje z evropskim parlamentom in lahko rečem, da je bilo v veliko zadovoljstvo tu pred vami predstavljati sedemindvajseterico v hiši evropske demokracije. v zadnjega pol leta je bilo slovensko predsedstvo prisotno na petintridesetih razpravah. skupaj smo debatirali približno 70 ur o najrazličnejših temah. hkrati si je slovensko predsedstvo aktivno prizadevalo za dialog tudi na strokovni ravni v procesu soodločanja, kjer smo skupaj izpeljali veliko trialogov. kot zanimivost najkrajši je trajal zgolj pet minut in smo se uskladili, najdaljši 9 ur. spoštovane poslanke poslanci, evropski parlament in slovensko predsedstvo smo skupaj dosegli dogovor na pogajanjih in uspešno zaključili 18 dosjejev v okviru dialoga. dva sta na sporedu še danes zvečer in jutri dopoldne. naše skupno sodelovanje in dialog lahko rezultira v zaključenih dvajsetih trialogih, s čimer lahko rečemo, da smo naredili pomemben korak naprej za dobrobit državljank in državljanov evropske unije. včeraj smo v okviru sveta za splošne zadeve na maratonski seji uspeli uskladiti tudi sklepe sveta evropske unije o širitvi evropske unije med drugim tudi za zahodni balkan. gre za še en pomemben uspeh slovenskega predsedstva, za katerega se zahvaljujem svoji ekipi in še posebej tudi državnemu sekretarju za evropske zadeve. na tem mestu pa se zahvaljujem tudi evropskemu parlamentu, tej instituciji, predsedniku sassoliju in vsem evropskim poslancem za tvorno sodelovanje v zadnjega pol leta, pa tudi za precej razgreto in moram priznati zanimivo razpravo. zagotovo nam ni bilo dolgčas. zdaj je tudi čas, da se zahvalim svoji ekipi, ki mi je pri tem delu in zastopanju sveta pred evropskim parlamentom nudila vso podporo, zato vsakemu posebej iskrena hvala. naj na tem mestu zaželim še srečo in veliko uspeha ter podporo franciji kot naslednji predsedujoči z željo po uspešnem nadaljevanju tega dela. vsem skupaj pa zaželim še vesel in blagoslovljen božič ter vse lepo v letu 2022. hvala.
thank you very much, minister, and let me thank you in particular for the cooperation of the slovenian presidency with this european parliament. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the latest covid variant omicron has sent the stock prices of pfizer and moderna into a deep dive. pfizer saw its share close up 6.1 percent, about $17.5 billion in additional market value. competitor moderna even saw its shares rise by 21 percent. a virus variant as a business opportunity. that's very cynical. after all, it's precisely the patents of big pharma that make new variants more likely. patents shield vaccine technology from other countries and companies. this limits vaccine production and increases global shortages at the expense of global health. in poor countries, barely three percent of the population is fully vaccinated. these vaccine shortages facilitate viral circulation and provide breeding grounds for new virus variants. the omicron variant shows how urgently this needs to change. an open source approach can allow researchers around the world to work on adapting the vaccine to new variants. this would allow unused production capacity to be activated and new production units to be created within a few months. never has the need to abolish patents been more urgent. this parliament has already voted for it three times. what are you waiting for? are the profits of big pharma really that much more important to you than human lives? basta lockdowns. i'm not going to do it. stop the pandemic. share the technology. saving lives.
mr. president, i'm glad you're here, mr. schinas. i'm glad you're here, mr. schinas. i'm glad you're here. i'm glad you're here. but does the commission believe that women cannot tackle big problems and that they should send a man? can the commission explain why mrs dalli is not here? this feels like a man's gotta save her now. if i were mrs. dalli, i would have explained it myself. i think that vice-president schinas is actually a victim of sexism and so is mrs dalli, unless we also want to keep silent about gender. mr commissioner and vice-president, i appreciate in any case that you are here to talk about inclusive language and our european values, which i share. i am glad that the commission's recommendation has been withdrawn, because that did not seem to me to be the right course to take. commissioner, you are responsible for the european way of life. i believe that this means a healthy relationship with our past and with our language, which is also rooted in the past. we don't have to be afraid of the cancellationist culture armies that don't want to have this conversation and don't leave room for inclusion, for acceptance, for sobriety. inclusive language actually creates space by widening, not by erasing.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am a christian democrat and, more than that, i am an ideological heir to the christian workers' movement, and i am proud of that. it is encyclicals such as rerum novarum that give me the courage to go against the tide on a regular basis, and sometimes even give my group leader a little gray hair. that is why i am asking to speak here, because it would be a historical mistake to leave the defence of christianity to the extreme right alone. i support the commission's intention to make this union more inclusive, so that everyone is valued and recognised, regardless of religion or belief. and the criticism of the internal guide was partly justified, it is good that it was withdrawn, but it also shows leadership that one dares to do this. the path to inclusion is not through the use of compulsory language, but through the use of language that binds, where there is room for differences, where everyone can be themselves, including christians. this is exactly what our founding fathers had in mind with our european project: connected in diversity. and we are for religious freedom. let us not be silent about the holidays of the faith communities, but let people respect their traditions and above all let us look ahead. i'm going to end, madam president, with what really makes our society more inclusive, because too many people are still excluded or structurally discriminated against. we'll work on this together. above all, let us spread the peace, tolerance and unity that christmas represents.
i would like to thank everyone for this initiative. i got a little story here: in 2013, as a young politician, i was interviewed for the first time for the flemish newspaper de standaard. there was a little picture of me on the front page. "assita, who did you blow for this?" a young man asked me at a party in brussels. i didn't answer, i was so dumb. the worst part, however, was not what he said but those who laughed along, namely, other women. years later, i got a call apologizing for what i did. i'm sorry about that. i was prejudiced, but you have proven who you are and i have a lot of respect for you now. do women have to prove themselves to be respected? i am glad that this text is on the table. however, this text regards members of parliament primarily as perpetrators and staff primarily as victims. but let me tell you something: this is not always true. everywhere you look, you find perpetrators, and everywhere you look, you find victims. members of parliament against members of parliament, staff against staff, influential staff against young members of parliament. this has to be for everyone; stereotypes exist at all levels. it is a question of power, but also of perceived power, as mrs regner also said to me here. so this should be an education for everyone. it doesn't hurt you to be informed, but it does hurt to experience sexism. nor should this parliament use or abuse it to replace the judiciary. i shall vote for the text. i am in favour of the principle, but i think that the implementation needs to be clarified. i also make a call to all women: whatever happens, keep your ambition, show your ambition! you will always be over-scrutinised, but don't give up.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, i remember very well the great problems with the different product standards in the different member states. there was always a screw, a bolt, a nut that collided with another standard from another member state, making it impossible or very difficult for products to cross the border. fortunately, the single market put an end to this. the single market is a boon to our upward social convergence, to internal free trade, to jobs and to prosperity. but today the internal borders are being closed again for a number of goods. more and more shops are selling only products manufactured in their own country, with large labels produit de or made in. i know of producers who were forced to move their production to another member state, even though they had sufficient production capacity in their own country. of course, the short chain is a good thing, but what i am denouncing is pure protectionism. this is destroying our single market. i have already repeatedly pointed out to the commission this de facto protectionism and i ask the commission again to draw up a report on these de facto obstacles and to put the deepening of the internal market at the top of its agenda.
