madam president, the past year has shown once again how strong a united europe is, but it cannot exist without a united justice, without a strong justice. a unified judiciary allows for greater security for european citizens, stability and a solid ground for the values we all share. the european arrest warrant should therefore be strengthened and updated. we can no longer allow criminals to find refuge in some of the member states. we can no longer allow the just punishment to be delayed or delayed for political reasons. it's time to be united in the fight against digital crime and environmental crime in particular. we need to unite in condemning gender-based violence and hate crimes. from tax evasion to crimes against humanity, judicial cooperation helps us build a safer europe for ourselves and our children. commissioner, i ask you to support together an improved european arrest warrant, which will allow for the swift delivery of justice in all the member states of our great european family.
member of the commission. madam president, thank you to the services for the unremitting work that they have done to enable us to speak here in your house. ladies and gentlemen, i also thank you for your speeches during this debate. it seems to me, with nuances of course, that there is a broad consensus on the usefulness of the european arrest warrant within the area of freedom and security, particularly for practitioners on the ground. it must be remembered that this is really a tool at the heart of this discussion on freedom and security but also justice, i remind you as the responsible commissioner. i would perhaps like to clarify the framework within which we deal with practitioners. the arrest warrant procedure is a purely judicial proceeding, and although the commission can help practitioners with technical expertise, it has no competence to intervene in the manner in which member states administer justice in individual cases. the framework decision allows the executing authorities to refuse the execution of the arrest warrant in certain cases, in particular for offences other than those covered by the list of 32 crimes for which there is no double criminality check. the executing state may decide to surrender will be subject to the condition that the acts at stake equally constitute an offence under its national law. thus, the outcome of a double criminality assessment may differ from one member state to another, depending on whether the charge as determined by the issuing state would constitute a criminal offence in the executing state and whether that member state decided to make use of its discretion to invoke this ground for refusal. and the commission will of course continue, as i have said, its work to ensure that the european arrest warrant is properly implemented in all the member states. we have already introduced infringement procedures and, if necessary, we will introduce more. i also note that you share the commission's desire to improve certain shortcomings in the functioning of the european arrest warrant, in particular through training, networking of different actors and the adoption of certain non-legislative measures. this is certainly something we are working on and will continue to work on together. we need to improve judicial cooperation, not only through this tool, but also through other instruments which we will have the opportunity to discuss, especially in a judicial world which is moving towards an increasingly digital transition. and in this context we will also continue to work on the protection of fundamental rights, as i have said. the court of justice of the european union helps us in this respect, in particular through its case law, which we will review in a manual for practitioners. it is important that this protection of fundamental rights also be at the heart of the debate on the european arrest warrant. i would like to conclude by saying, of course, because many have mentioned it, that we will also continue to use all the instruments at our disposal to guarantee the rule of law within the european union, across all the member states. but, i repeat, the instrument before us today is a very effective instrument in the field of judicial cooperation. it is up to us to make it work as well as possible and to improve it, if we have the opportunity.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague javier zarzalejos, on the work he has done. the euro-order is based on trust between member states. we must adapt the euro order so that criminals who are absconding from justice in a member state cannot hide inside the european union without being prosecuted for the crimes they are accused of. with this initiative we are sending a clear message from the european parliament to the european commission, which has the legislative initiative, about the need to reform the euro order. we specifically call for the inclusion of several new crimes, especially crimes against the public order of the member states, when they are a serious threat or involve violence, and crimes against the constitutional integrity of states involving the use of violence. we call on the european commission to turn this message into a legislative initiative.
president of the court of auditors. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen! we live in very difficult times. as is always the case in the european union, major crises often lead to major leaps forward and innovations that would have been thought impossible just a few months earlier. it is also thanks to the persistence of this parliament that the major decisions and agreements which will determine the eu's finances over the next seven years have been concluded in good time. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the then presidency of the council and the commission on the results. we can now look forward to the ratification, hopefully soon, of the own resources decision by the member states. i am pleased to be here with you today, together with my colleague tony murphy, the member of the court responsible for the annual report, to present and discuss the court's annual report for 2019. due to the special circumstances of the current covid-19 crisis, this year's presentation of the annual report will take place a little later than usual. the commission has already made some progress in its work on discharge. the lessons that you have all learned in the course of the various hearings over the last few weeks can be incorporated into today's debate, and i do not think that is a bad thing. it is particularly important that the policy decisions you make in this house or which you approve of are translated into results on the ground and that you can assess what has gone well and what has not and how things can be improved. that's what we're trying to do with our detailed and independent tests that we've presented to you. by now, our findings for 2019 are probably widely known. we continue to give full audit judgment both on the reliability of the accounts and on the regularity of the revenue. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine. this overall ratio of course masks the considerable differences between the various policy areas. in the area of competitiveness, the error rate we estimate increased to 4%, mainly due to ineligible costs. however, the improvements in the natural resources sector have reduced the estimated error rate to 1.9%, which is also below materiality. in the administrative area, as in previous years, we did not find any significant error rate. in the area of cohesion, taking account of the corrections made by the member states' authorities, we estimate the error rate at 4.4%, which is lower than in the previous year, but still substantial. moreover, if the national authorities and the commission succeed in correcting the deficiencies in their estimated error rates over the next few years, we may well be able to make greater use of the work of the audit authorities of the member states. but it's not ready yet. i know that the commission is determined to achieve this objective, but it will take a great deal of effort at all levels to achieve it in the end. for several years now, we have been distinguishing between expenditure which we consider to be high risk, such as cohesion expenditure, where management is shared with the member states, and other types of expenditure where we consider the risk to be low. the high-risk expenditure has a significant error rate of an estimated 4.9%, compared with 4.5% in the previous year. however, what happened in 2019 was an increase in the share of high-risk expenditure, especially in the cohesion area, to 53%. this is not a problem in itself, because cohesion expenditure is usually very useful. but the fact is that now the majority of our test population has a significant error rate so the error rate is comprehensive in our understanding of testing. the court of auditors has therefore issued a negative audit opinion on the expenditure for the financial year 2019 and not a limited audit opinion as in previous years. this is not to be seen as a kind of blame-shift directed solely at the commission, since the authorities of the member states manage some 74% of union expenditure. each of us has a role to play in the chain, and as we all know, oversimplification is not the answer in the end. this should not be seen as a general step backwards in eu financial management. we have achieved a great deal compared to the situation 10 or even 20 years ago. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. i know that in your work, particularly in the committee, you will be focusing on these areas when you are preparing parliament's discharge decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me address three overarching questions that we will be facing in the future. firstly, instead of the debate on the nomination procedures for the european public prosecutor's office which will take place in this house this week - as important as that is - i would have liked to have seen the european public prosecutor's office already active in its work and to have seen it take real action to protect the financial interests of the european union against irregularities and fraud as well as against national financial interests. it is high time that this authority was finally set up and equipped with the appropriate resources, and i know the firm determination of the attorney general and the european parliament to make this a reality. the court of auditors naturally seeks to support these efforts as far as possible in accordance with its audit mandate. secondly, we note that the court's reports are referred to as a possible source of information on which the qualitative assessments carried out by the commission under regulation 2020/2092 on a general conditionality regime to protect the union budget are based. by recognising the obvious, namely that 'there is a clear link between respect for the rule of law and the efficient implementation of the union budget in accordance with the principle of sound financial management', the eu legislator has drawn a clear line which must now be enforced in practice if necessary. i welcome the fact that several of our recommendations have been taken into account during the legislative process, in particular the position of the final recipients or beneficiaries of european funds. thirdly, we have repeatedly pointed out in our reports that many member states, regardless of the objectives or requirements set at political level, still have considerable difficulties in using up the eu funds to which they are entitled. this has in turn contributed to a strong increase in outstanding commitments, which amounted to eur 298 billion at the end of 2019. as a result, these funds still have to be used for the good purposes intended by the legislator. the problem of delays in expenditure must be urgently addressed by the member states concerned. i would also like to take this opportunity to make two practical and forward-looking comments. with the launch of nextgenerationeu, eu spending will almost double in the coming years. we have already discussed this in the committee on budgetary control in november, when i last spoke here. i wanted to let you know that we are currently looking at what this means for us as auditors in terms of the tasks and the resources required. it is obvious that there will be repercussions on the necessary manpower and i hope to be able to provide you with updated information on this shortly. finally, i would like to turn to the court's pilot project, its 'report on the performance of the eu budget' 'state of play at the end of 2019', which responds to the wish of many in this house to focus our audit work more on the performance of the european budget and the evaluation of the commission's information on this. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in these times of crisis, the member states and the commission have a huge responsibility for sound and economic management of european finances. our annual report, which i have the honour to present to you today, makes it clear that further efforts are needed. as directly elected members of parliament, you have a great responsibility to ensure that this is done successfully in the exercise of your legislative and political control functions.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, dear president of the european court of auditors, dear tony murphy, ladies and gentlemen, first i would like to thank president lehne for his presentation and for the work the court of auditors has undertaken to prepare its 2019 annual report. the european union budget makes an important contribution to our common priorities for europe. the commission is pleased that the court has expressed a clean opinion on the accounts for the 13th year in a row and on the revenue side of the budget. on the expenditure side, the commission is also pleased that there are positive evolutions. the estimated levels of error for the chapters on administrative expenditure and natural resources are altogether around 55% of expenditure audited by the court, below the court’s 2% materiality threshold. the commission also positively notes that the error rates for the two main blocs of eu expenditure – natural resources and cohesion – decreased compared to last year. overall, the level of error for the eu budget as a whole remains stable: 2.7% compared to 2.6 of the previous year. the commission carefully monitors the implementation of the union budget on the ground in order to identify weaknesses and implement the necessary remedial actions. to do this, it has set up multiannual control systems and strives to ensure that, once a programme is closed after all controls and corrections have been carried out, the remaining level of error stays below 2%. the commission estimated that this risk, which we call risk closure, is below 1% – 0.7, to be precise – for 2019 expenditure. according to the commission’s own conclusion, as a manager of the european union budget, we consider that in 2019, as in previous years, internal control systems were working effectively. inevitably our more detailed assessment leads to slightly different results than the court. to put it simply, the court has a specific mandate and assesses what happens within a year. if you allow me a cinematic reference, the court takes a snapshot; the commission makes a movie, and while the snapshot is an integral part of the movie, it does not tell you the whole story. however, the findings and recommendations of the court, together with ours, do help us to improve further our control systems. simplification and better controls – not more controls – are key for the future. the commission also gives the highest priority to the performance of spending. it’s absolutely crucial not only to do things right, but also to do the right thing: that is, to use the funds to achieve the objectives and deliver concrete results for the citizens. in conclusion, i would like to underline that more than ever, we collectively need to strike the right balance between a low level of errors, fast payments, reasonable costs of controls for public authorities and beneficiaries, and, of course, added value. the finalisation of the legal basis for the spending programmes of the new period, including the next generation eu, gives us the new opportunity to do so. in this context, the commission had, for instance, proposed an obligatory use by member states of a tool which would have allowed to collect and compare information on recipients of union funding. this proposal has, however, not been retained in the final agreements by the co-legislators. but i would like to use the opportunity to thank in particular the committee on budgetary control (cont) and its members for their tireless efforts to achieve this – but finally, unfortunately, it was not possible. nevertheless, the commission will nonetheless do its best to encourage member states to use this mechanism, and it was confirmed also by the court that this is definitely a potential improvement our for reporting system and therefore also for the quality of our assessments – both of the court and the commission, but also the national authorities. once again, thank you for all your efforts and i’m looking forward to the discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr president lehne, mr hahn, commissioner, i would first like to thank the european court of auditors for the very important work you do every year with this report. as rapporteur for parliament's discharge report, i am pleased to say that the level of error in parliament's administrative expenditure was again below the threshold for this year. but there are problems. all eu spending must be based on simple and clear rules. however, this is not happening at the moment. in view of the errors found by the court of auditors in relation to the contributions received by a european political party, it is totally inappropriate that a european political party is unable to present written contracts or receipts for expenditure paid with taxpayers' money. this undermines the trust of citizens in decision-makers, which is vital for the functioning of democracy. it is inconceivable that the court of auditors should have to make a recommendation on this subject again and again every year. citizens' confidence in the political system is strengthened or weakened at all levels of government. we must therefore ensure that when the rules on political parties at european level are opened up later this year, they remove the ambiguities and contradictions which are unfortunately reflected at the present time at the level of practical action.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank president lehne and commissioner hahn and mr murphy for being here and for their presentation. i very much welcome the report on the performance of the eu budget and the work of the court, especially the part that strongly emphasises the outcome and the results achieved following the implementation of the eu budget, which has been one of the main priorities of the committee on budgetary control (cont) and parliament in previous discharges. so we welcome that fact. it is also positive to know that the report concludes that the revenue for 2019 is legal, regular and free of material error. the acknowledgment that there is a significant improvement in the eu’s spending is also encouraging. however, it is not positive that this year the court is giving an adverse opinion in terms of expenditure and it sees a deterioration compared with the previous three years. it is also quite surprising that the highest error rates are in competition and research and not in cohesion, which is usually the case. cohesion remains one of the areas where the risk of error rate is highest. in the context of the previous discharge procedures, it is important that our priority remains to learn from the previous implementation of the mff in the various programmes. the aim in the future shouldn’t only be the implementation of the budget, but also the achievement of the results. it is important to draw the appropriate conclusions and to take adequate measures in order to continue limiting the errors in eu spending. also, in the context of the unforeseen pandemic, i would like to conclude by welcoming the fact that, just a few hours ago, the european court of auditors (eca) published a review of the eu’s initial contribution to the public health response to covid—19. we are looking forward to seeing the findings.
on behalf of the ecr group. the [...] mr president, i would like to support rapporteur melbarde in saying that cultural heritage is a precious resource which the european union and the member states must protect and finance. every penny invested in the conservation and development of cultural heritage sites is an investment that will benefit not only current citizens but also future generations. particular attention should be paid to conservation, which is closely linked to infrastructure as a prerequisite for the development and access to cultural heritage. in bulgaria we have a huge number of priceless archaeological finds of european and world significance and from personal bad experience i know how many of these sites are discovered and then abandoned. these sites cannot be developed, let alone maintained, due to the lack of appropriate infrastructure. when you discover an ancient city in the middle of nowhere, there's no way there's gonna be a flood of tourists. infrastructure should be a key element in funding. money must be allocated not only from the cultural budget but also from the structural funds and the regional development funds to create conditions for access and exploitation. i am therefore pleased that the rapporteur and the whole of mrs melbarde's report call for increased funding from the european regional development funds.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is nothing new to be said. we know very well that transport, whether by road, rail or any other means of transport, is very important for the functioning of the internal market and for the internal market not to be fragmented. i am glad that we are considering a review, i congratulate the rapporteurs and all those who worked. i will support this report and suggest that the commission should give careful consideration to the provisions of this report. one of them proposes a principle which has unfortunately not been used by the commission: the implementation of the ten-t networks must be based on the principle of equal treatment for corridors, without favouring some corridors at the expense of others. and yes, here i can say that we must take the principle further, because after eleven years of delay we see that the market is fragmented, that the eastern countries, my country, romania, for example, the commissioner knows very well, has a poor railway system, has a poor road system, and then we cannot talk about connectivity, we cannot talk about productivity and uniform competition. so, more principles and very judicious investments made.
madam president, the ten-t regulation has firmly contributed to european cohesion and strengthened the internal market. transport is vital to the european economy. without good connections, europe cannot continue to grow or prosper. european transport infrastructure needs to be future-proofed to ensure the functioning of the eu internal market and the competitiveness of the eu and to support the transition towards smart, sustainable, efficient and safe mobility. in this regard, i was pleased to see that the report included the significance of maintaining the ten-t links with the united kingdom, starting with its recognition as a neighbouring country, while safeguarding the implementation and completion of jointly-agreed infrastructure projects. we have heard many times of the difficulties for ireland with brexit, but now that the deal is done, we are faced with the more mundane regulatory legislative and equitable eu policy ramifications, and this will be a continuous process. the review of the ten-t regulation will be a test of this. with this in mind – i echo – the report calls for the commission to ensure the effective connection of ireland with mainland europe, with particular attention to maritime routes through the core and comprehensive network, whatever the shape of future eu-uk relations will take. i’m particularly referring to the ports in ireland south – rosslare, waterford, cork and shannon foynes. these are closest to the continent and dublin is already choc-a-block.
madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, the road networks further development and the revision of the ten-t regulation must consider the primary priorities related to transport decarbonisation, safety and digitalisation. the commission has to prioritise the full deployment of alternative fuels in all kinds of transport, especially renewable fuels, while respecting technological neutrality. if we want to ensure progress toward climate neutrality, any transport infrastructure projects financed by the eu must be deemed consistent with the 2030 and 2050 climate objectives. the assessment of the effects of projects must consider greenhouse gas emissions during the whole life cycle, along with those occurring in the construction and operational phase and including indirect emissions as well. currently, most of the contracts with the eu are based on the lowest price criteria. we need a more sustainable approach and criteria that takes into consideration maintenance, rehabilitation and investment costs, initial investment costs. so, we have to change our mentality for more sustainable tendering.
before moving on to the next speaker, we now move on to the first voting session of today. we will vote on the files as indicated in the agenda. the voting session will be open from 13.00 to 14.00. 15. the the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same method as in previous partsessions. all votes will be cast by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. the voting session is hereby opened. you have until 14. 15 to vote. the results of this voting session will then be announced on the 19th. 00 in the evening.
we now continue our debate on the council and commission statements on the humanitarian situation of refugees and migrants at the eu's external borders (2021/2503 ((rsp)).
madam chair, in the context of the pandemic, we have seen many countries close their borders to limit the spread of the infection. this is what the european union should have done when hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants were piling up on its borders, illegal immigrants, not refugees. but instead, they received a silly but kind invitation to settle in europe, in our home. today, in this hall, you continue, dear colleagues on the left, to speak about the plight of refugees and migrants, without realizing that europe cannot help anyone before it helps itself. we need to focus, focus on protecting our external borders; support for the countries that are the external borders of the european union needs to increase, of course, support for frontex - also; more and more effective repatriation and more support in the fight against human trafficking. i don't agree with those colleagues on the left who attack frontex, they don't know what they're talking about. you've heard that eight out of ten migrants are men. where's your gender equality, gentlemen? shouldn't there be some kind of ratio? this misunderstood tolerance, madam president, and this misunderstood solidarity have led to attacks, threats and assassinations. that's got to change.
dear vice-president, there is no political will, that is a common solution at the level of the european union so we are again discussing the rights of asylum seekers and migrants who want to enter the european union, but the laws of the member states on the legal crossing of their borders. in a system of order, one would not exclude the other. respect for international conventions on the human rights of all those seeking protection and international obligations towards the most vulnerable should be unquestionable. equally secure and legal ways of seeking such protection should work. instead, several thousand migrants and asylum seekers in bosnia and herzegovina, a country they do not want to stay in, spend months in inhumane conditions. despite the continuous disbursements of financial assistance by the commission, the situation is worsening and further underlines the dysfunction of the institutions of bosnia and herzegovina and the long-standing dayton system. financial support is needed, but financial aid will not solve the underlying political problem. the eu has also been working to develop a common approach to migration and asylum, including the establishment of a common framework for the exchange of information on migration and asylum. i therefore give my full support to portugal for making this issue one of the priorities of its presidency.
madam president, the european union's migration policy has failed. the attempt to replace asylum reform with border reform has led to nothing. the result of this experiment created an absurd situation. those who abuse the rules of the european union continue to find loopholes. and those who are eligible for protection, the weak, the defenseless, those who are fleeing wars, are left to their own devices. but today, our immigration policy is still in the hands of the traffickers. more than five years ago, you remember, the sea dumped the body of three-year-old elan kurdi to show us that european politics must change. but for five years, not a single pillar of our legislation has been changed. my question to the commission is: what exactly are you going to do about frontex, which continues to be part of the problem, not the solution? and my question to the presidency is: will we complete the reform of the new asylum agency under your presidency or will the council again run away from responsibility?
madam president, mr president-in-office, the common foreign and defence policy is undermined by the rule of unanimity, which means that it is limited to an endless search for a minimum common denominator. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, and it is also a political union of the people. the european union is a major player in the world economy. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. mr borrell, we support the positive agenda you are promoting, but in addition to the 'carrot', at the next european council in march you must also define the 'bill'. why should european arms sales to turkey continue when even the united states is stopping? a few months ago, you told the plenary that you would not be pope pius ii. the european parliament has never asked you to do that. but we do not want you to become pontius pilate by pretending not to see.
madam president, actions which we take within the union’s foreign security and defence policy grant a safer tomorrow for the people of the union and beyond. given the situation we find ourselves in today, i draw attention to two intertwined challenges: cyberattacks and disinformation. the european union is as strong as the strength of our institutions and public trust in them. the recent decision to establish the european cybersecurity competence centre, which in my opinion should include a stand-by unit, will definitely contribute to protecting the essential infrastructure. disinformation is literally taking lives by turning people against covid-19 vaccination. we must do better in refuting these lies and we need to step up in the global fight against the covid-19 pandemic. starting tomorrow, we might be able to restore trust in transatlantic cooperation and to rebuild the much-needed western partnership. i am looking forward to watching this.
the commission has already done so. i refer to the report by mr sven mikser on security and defence policy, and i thank him very much for the good cooperation. we have succeeded in including non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, critical reflections on the operations in mali and the sahel, and even a piece of text on disarmament. this is in stark contrast to the 2% defence spending target which is being introduced here. is this not an attempt to transfer a nato target from 2014 to the entire european union? are we aware that six member states of the european union are non-nato members and neutral states? and, in general, in times like these, we need every dollar to save lives, to save jobs, to create new green jobs and to get our economy back on its feet. it is in the light of the eu as a nobel peace prize winner that i ask and urge you to vote with us against the 2% target for defence spending.
madam president! the report on the european union's human rights policy fails to diagnose and describe many important problems. political correctness is taking precedence over facts. not surprisingly, then, the report omits the persecution of christians. the european union is in every way cutting itself off from the european christian heritage, and 80% of religious persecution is against christians. many of them, unfortunately, are genocidal. 250 million christians live in various forms of discrimination. another very important issue is the protection of the rights of women and children. i want to talk about surrogacy, which is a modern form of slavery, human trafficking, is social engineering where the child becomes a commodity. he humiliates both the child and the woman. i therefore call on the european parliament to support amendments to these important points. give, o state, a witness to the truth!
madam president, mr high representative, today i would like to make a statement on the two guiding principles which, in my view, should guide the european union's foreign policy in the years ahead. firstly, multilateralism and then strategic autonomy. two principles that are two sides of the same coin. strengthened and effective multilateralism to deliver on our agenda: the protection of human rights, fair and inclusive globalisation, gender equality or the fight against climate change. and, of course, advocating a world based on rules and dialogue. and at the same time, strategic autonomy. strategic autonomy, which is nothing more than being autonomous in our positions, with our own capabilities to be defended. some decisions taken in recent years, such as the enhanced cooperation on defence, are good examples. it is obvious that this week there will be hopeful changes in washington, but i would like to claim and ask that the european union continue to develop its own path, because it is true that trump is leaving, but no one assures us that there will be no new "trumps" in the future.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur david mcallister for this excellent report on the common foreign security policy. in this volatile world, we need a european union that is more vocal in mediation and peaceful resolutions of ongoing frozen conflicts. we witnessed that in south caucasus. moreover, we must help our partners in capacity-building for peace and security in africa. we must rebuild our transatlantic relations with the new administration, based on a common interest in foreign and security policy, while working on our strategic autonomy. finally, i will end on a personal note. 25 years ago, one of the most televised wars on european soil ended in a peace agreement in the american base in ohio. to end this war, croatia offered itself to its american partners to do the dirty job on the ground, in order to prevent another carnage that was menacing the town of bihać after srebrenica. the west balkan summit tried to focus european attention back to this region. as a frontier country and member of nato, croatia was vigilant regarding its responsibilities in this respect.
madam president, mr borrell, i welcome the annual report on the common defence security policy, which is a great tool for the european union to strengthen its role as promoter and guardian of multilateralism. in today's world, our security environment is unfortunately unstable due to the large number of security problems, old and new. this report addresses these challenges in the industrial and military competitiveness of the european union and in research and development. in this connection, i would like to reiterate the crucial role of the european union's common defence initiatives. these initiatives not only help to strengthen sustainable and effective defence cooperation and integration but also help to maximise the effectiveness of the european union's defence spending. therefore, providing sufficient means to carry out these joint initiatives is the easiest way to ensure that we get the progress we would like to see.
madam president, hundreds of reports and analyses have already been produced, accounting for the enormous economic impact of the covid-19 pandemic, and the data are deeply worrying. it is important to me that the same attention be paid to the social consequences of this crisis. the emergency and the measures imposed have seriously affected vulnerable groups. this has led to increased inequality, poverty, unemployment and social disparities and could threaten the social model as well as employment standards in europe. i very much welcome the response that the european union has given to the mff and the recovery plan. it should be based on the principles of economic and territorial cohesion, solidarity, social dialogue and transformation with a view to a just green transition. it is now essential to avoid delays in the allocation of funds. citizens should feel the benefits of these investments as early as this year. the responsibility of the member states is enormous and it is they who should have reflected the specific needs of the population in their plans, providing for a set of reforms and measures to ensure social recovery from the crisis.
mr president, today we are discussing additional european aid for our citizens most affected by the corona crisis - those living in extreme poverty. i support this initiative because i represent a country where poverty is a major problem, where hundreds of thousands rely on temporary work, often abroad, to feed their families, and many have been deprived of even this minimum income because of the crisis. but i want to draw your attention to another aspect of the problem. the risk that tens of thousands of families will be pushed into extreme poverty as a result of the crisis. the pandemic has literally taken the bread out of the hands of freelance artists, thousands of self-employed people, small business owners and family businesses. yesterday, they were middle class, now they are unemployed, with overdue mortgages and accumulated debts, and in some european countries, unfortunately bulgaria is one of them, they are left outside the protection of economic measures. this parliament, together with the commission, has a duty to address the problem, to ensure that the european budget is really spent on those most affected, to prevent millions more european citizens and families from becoming innocent victims of poverty.
in writing. the fund for european aid to the most deprived is an expression of european solidarity with the most deprived in our societies. now, in the context of the covid-19 pandemic and the uncertainty that exists for millions of people, this solidarity is more necessary than ever. it is important that member states increase support for organisations delivering food, basic material assistance and social inclusion support to people who need it most, and this is now possible with almost €48 billion available under react-eu. i call on member states to make the most of these additional resources and to use this additional funding available to ensure that those most affected by the crisis receive swiftly the support they so badly need in these uncertain times of health crisis. the fight against poverty and social exclusion is common and our aim is to ensure a rapid, sustainable recovery. i am also very pleased that special emphasis was placed on the fact that the crisis has affected many more women, who work primarily in the service sector and are at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, and that this should be reflected in the allocation of funds.
mr. chairman, the health crisis has not only changed the labor market, it has also accelerated the changes we've been talking about for a long time, but we've been talking about in the future. they are now a reality. remote work, flexible but uncertain working hours, the displacement of traditional jobs by computer technology. and they come along with a severe economic crisis and increased unemployment. the problems became visible during the covid crisis, but they will not go away with it. it is natural to hear today calls for increased state intervention, for a new role for governments, even for european institutions, for increased public spending. but if we try to force the labor market into the 20th century, we will fail, we will destroy the social market economy and our social systems. new public commitment, new public spending is needed, but it is needed not to stop change, but to help us adapt to it. and they should follow only three priorities: education, education and education.
in writing. i am happy that the european skills programme is making the importance of lifelong learning and the upskilling and qualification of employees a reality, so that they can be well prepared for the competitive work environment. we need to ensure equal access to education for all people, regardless of their gender, age group and ethnic origin. disabled people should also be able to take advantage of the opportunities that are offered. the changing working conditions and the shift towards remote working imposed by the pandemic require all workers to increase their digital literacy and improve their digital skills. the union is experiencing a shortage of qualified personnel and this problem will deepen in the future. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i am particularly pleased to see that the programme is also focusing on older people, giving them more opportunities to develop their skills and to be active in the labour market. the programme also covers young people, providing opportunities to enrich their work experience. the eu has an essential role to play in supporting member states' action in the field of education and training, and each country should take full advantage of all the opportunities offered by this programme.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the fight against poverty and the reduction of inequalities both at national level and in the union as a whole must be among the main priorities in the work programme of every politician. the existence of the 'working poor' phenomenon is unacceptable and the fact that more and more people in the union are suffering from this fate is particularly worrying. the current pandemic has further exacerbated social inequalities, and unfortunately there is no one-size-fits-all solution. we need urgent measures and a comprehensive approach. the rapid recovery of the economy and the strengthening of the single market are essential. small and medium-sized enterprises should have access to financing opportunities. it is important to ensure effective protection of workers' rights, safe working conditions, the transferability of social rights and to provide for sufficient opportunities for lifelong learning. there is a need for more investment in our rural areas to improve connectivity and to improve services. ladies and gentlemen, the fight against poverty can only be successful if the european institutions, the states, business, the social partners and civil society come together. it is necessary to work actively at european, national, regional and local levels.
madam president, we declared vaccination a common cause, a common european solution to both the health and economic crisis, and the commission made an enormous effort to procure vaccines at the best possible price and safety and reliability standards. yet success came at a price: a delay of the vaccination process itself. i hope the vaccine shortage will be behind us quite soon. and still, we face two major problems. one is the mass reluctance of the people to vaccinate, and another is the staggering gap in the pace of vaccination campaigns in the different countries, where countries with completely different standards, like bulgaria and the netherlands, are both lingering behind due to mismanagement of the crisis. therefore i call on the commission to launch a pan-european campaign against disinformation, but also to actively intervene where national authorities fail to procure vaccines for their citizens. some might argue it’s a national competence. i would answer that if it’s a common cause, if it’s a common fight, if we are to leave no one behind, then we should not leave behind those already left behind by their governments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we sometimes need to remind ourselves, in the course of the debate we are having, of the seriousness of the tragedy in which these political decisions we have to take today find themselves. since 1945, there has never been a global recession so severe, with more than two and a half million deaths. the european union, while having decided to react economically with extraordinarily effective action, has found itself facing, also from the health point of view, certainly not without mistakes, the most formidable provocation it has ever received. as an italian, i can say that we have been guaranteed as a reservation more than 300 million vaccines. it would not have been possible without the european union, which has set aside 2.300 million for the 27 member states. the mistakes must be corrected, there is no doubt, but our strength as individual countries would not have allowed us to give this thread of hope to our citizens. now the pace of supply is not sufficient, we are only at 4% in the administration of these vaccines to the total population. we must improve and therefore ensure that the plans are effective within the individual countries, that the bottlenecks in the recruitment of staff and the communication of information systems are removed. but the way is the right way. our countries can say that, thanks to the european union, even in the face of such a great tragedy, we have an answer and we can hope.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president of the commission, in recent weeks we have seen a growing number of criticisms of europe in the supply of vaccines. the commission and the member states have undoubtedly made mistakes and the criticisms are also understandable. we are asking for transparency and clarity on this, but i think we should also be honest with the european citizens. do we really think that if each member state had dealt with the pharmaceutical companies on its own, we would have more vaccines today? or do we want to recognize that the absence of europe would only have favoured one or two large countries at the expense of all the others? so, thanks to the vaccine strategy, since last june, we've been helping to fund research by diversifying our supply chains. let us now concentrate on pressing the pharmaceutical companies to honour their commitments, to monitor for possible abuses and to organise the administration of the vaccine in our countries as best we can. weakening the european institutions will not help us to put this bad page in our lives away as soon as possible.
it is clear that the restoration of social and economic life in the european union is the main task of our union. it is clear that the common solidarity approach in this unprecedented crisis is the right one, not national egoism. however, the priority now is to deliver as many vaccines as possible in the shortest possible time and to vaccinate citizens in the member states as quickly as possible. my call is for the commission to also support member states in their vaccination campaigns and by region. we also need to increase production capacity with a much-needed european financial investment offensive. vaccination is the light at the end of the tunnel, but let that light not become the light of the oncoming train in the form of viral variants that are not protected by the vaccines that exist today. i am glad that the european commission is starting to work on these issues too. we must be prepared for all the contingencies that lie ahead so that the ultimate goal of restoring social and economic life can be achieved as quickly as possible. this is what european citizens want: transparency, security, information and action against disinformation. my appeal to you is that communication be even better and that every question that is asked be answered in the quickest way.
as the representative of one of the poorest countries in the european union, i want to emphasize that the overall approach of the commission was an act of supreme solidarity, because small and poor countries were given conditions for vaccines that they could never have agreed on their own. i also welcome the publication yesterday of a contract with another manufacturer, but remember that the european parliament has been calling for transparency and publicity since last summer, because the lack of transparency has created a breeding ground for anti-european and conspiracy theories. i have three questions for the european commission: what measures will the european commission take to ensure timely supplies from vaccine manufacturers? how will member states that are significantly lagging behind in vaccination rates be assisted, encouraged or sanctioned? and is there a plan for a pan-european information campaign to overcome the mistrust of vaccines in some member states?
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the question is, in the end, why do we need a common health policy at all? and the answer is clear, because europe breathes through its open borders, because the free movement of people, trade, tourism, culture is the foundation of the european economy. because locked within national borders, conflicting national laws and quarantines, we are simply suffocating. but i'll point out one more answer. because europe is an open space, a problem for one is a problem for all. the problem of the chronically ill is a problem that is exacerbated tenfold by the development of the infection. we all know that viral infections are directly linked to chronic diseases across the continent. and when a government fails to address the health crisis, when it exploits it for electoral purposes, it puts not only its own citizens at risk, but every european. today, bulgaria is rapidly entering the third wave of covid-19 with increased infection, more hospitalizations, unfortunately higher mortality. and all medical procedures are postponed until the day after the election because we're in the middle of a campaign. a special day that may coincide with the peak of the infection. without compromising national sovereignty, europe must have an answer to such questions and a willingness to identify such threats and make recommendations.
i would like to congratulate mrs clara on her exceptional professionalism and goodwill in producing this report. small-scale fishing is the backbone of fishing in my country. over 95% of the bulgarian fishing fleet falls into this category. the black sea has a clear seasonality which leads to a shorter fishing period. the sea is slightly salty, with few economically important species. most of the fishermen in bulgaria are elderly people. i believe it is important to have a tailored approach to them to ensure that they can maintain their livelihood in the future without difficulty and additional costs. i welcome the idea of also providing financial assistance for equipment from the future european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund. however, i believe that the proposed text does not guarantee the interests of small-scale fishermen on the bulgarian black sea coast, so if some key proposals for amendments to it are rejected, i will refrain from giving my support to the document in its current form.
madam president, first of all i welcome this report and the idea of coordinating and monitoring economic and social policies in the union more closely, of more rigorously controlling the expenditure associated with the green pact, the recovery plans and the achievement of the objectives of the european social pillar. this surveillance is necessary, it's even mandatory. we cannot achieve the social goals of higher incomes, poverty eradication and a green economy if we pour taxpayers' money into corrupt schemes and unreformed sectors. on the contrary, if european funds are misused, if they are subject to political abuse, they can become a risk, a problem. they can fuel oligarchy and increase inequality, they can be used to breathe life into failing energy companies and so, instead of helping technological progress and reform, they can stop it. they can be used to buy votes in elections and thus deepen social marginalisation and dependence. the european commission must ensure that every penny of taxpayers' money is directed precisely to modernising economies and adapting social systems to new demographic and technological realities.
madam president, mr commissioner. we all support the goals and principles of the european pillar of social rights, and we wish to see them attained in our home countries and throughout the union. and yet, we all have some uncertainty – not about the objectives themselves – but rather about the ways to achieve them. our task is no less than the safeguarding and reviving of the european social model, the social market economy, the ‘wohlstand für alle’ principle of ludwig erhard. this is a viable and realistic task, but it requires, as by the way it did decades ago, the entire mobilisation of our human, technological and even moral potential. it also requires our adaptation to new realities. to achieve our social goals, we must recognise the workers’, employers’ and customers’ incentives behind the new forms of technology and platform-based flexible work and not simply deny it as a form of exploitation. we shall adapt our labour, social and tax regulations to the new technologies, rather than impose old laws on new social realities. we shall once again focus any additional regulation on how it can benefit individuals, families and small business, and on their needs and their motivation.
mr. chairman, every year here we register another deterioration of the media environment. we have reached a situation that was unthinkable years ago in the european union. in hungary, the government-critical radio was shut down. in slovenia, the prime minister openly declares war on the media, and bulgaria is the world's 111th most shameful country in terms of media freedom. the bulgarian government no longer even tries to silence the media, as it did in poland, hungary and slovenia, because it silenced them long ago. how did we get here? today my question to the commission is: how long will you simply register the problem? i therefore call for european legislation to introduce clear rules and specific standards. can we expect such legislation and when? i call on the presidency to ask how long the issue of media freedom will be taboo in the council. the council's silence only legitimizes the actions of those prime ministers who undermine media freedom. the council will be on the side of the fundamental values of the european union or the side of self-forgotten prime ministers like orban, jansz, borisov?
in writing. i believe that rural areas are still being neglected today compared to cities and that a number of problems still exist and are even worsening, namely: depopulation, population ageing, lack of basic services such as health and education, lack of sufficient investment in infrastructure and modern technologies, and conditions for entrepreneurship. the revitalization of rural areas and the improvement of living conditions in rural areas should be a horizontal policy. it is essential to ensure synergies between the long-term vision and all other policies that have a direct and indirect impact on rural areas the cap, cohesion policy and all green pact strategies and policies. rural areas should be well developed, with modern infrastructure, but unfortunately, many areas continue to be left behind and depopulated. this also leads to the closure of schools and the suspension or deterioration of the quality of various services, especially health, education and training. i believe that in order to revitalize and modernise rural areas and to provide opportunities for people to develop their professional potential, the range of measures and methods available should be extended and sufficient resources should be provided. this should be done at both eu and member state level, with the active involvement of local authorities and civil society.
madam chairman, commissioner, the other day i received a letter of request from one of the most authoritative pulmonologists in bulgaria. he writes that with my support for this directive we can improve the quality of life and health of all european citizens. i would like to say to him, through the european parliament and my vote: clean air is not a privilege, doctor, it is a right of every citizen of the world. it is not the responsibility of the state alone, because borders do not stop air pollution, and the price of inaction costs 400,000 human lives in europe every year. this air quality directive is the result of an outdated political compromise. supporting the full alignment of european union standards with world health organisation guidelines, extending the scope of air quality standards, ensuring a rapid legislative process are the necessary first steps that will show that the health of european citizens is at the heart of any future legislation.
madam president, for two years russia has actually been testing whether it can disconnect itself from the internet, and whether it can do so without severe consequences for the russian economy or its society. well, it can. that same country, russia, has developed a highly advanced military capability to potentially sabotage the internet optic-fibre cables that connect our continent with others and which form the backbone of our digital economy. many nato and eu members have warned about this and any european data strategy should therefore not just address the data addressed, but should also cover the flow security of data in transit, both under the sea and on our continent. well i believe every incident must be reported, investigated and attributed. our navies should engage actively with any adversarial operation. and i therefore ask for a strategy that also deals with flow security.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. data is the fuel of the digital economy. without it, the creation of innovative products and services is impossible. building a single european data space is essential for our businesses to compete in the new technologies. this is particularly true for start-ups, the vast majority of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. the draft rules must give priority to these undertakings. the position that the world's largest technology companies have today is based on the vast amount of information they have been able to gather. public institutions have vast data resources that can and should be freely shared and reused. the development of new business models in the transport and tourism sectors will not be possible without access to data falling within the scope of spatial information infrastructure, such as cartographic data. the commission should establish a system of incentives for member states to support the process of opening up these resources.
mr president, the past year of the pandemic has indeed accelerated digitalisation across europe, and that makes this report on the data economy all the more important and timely. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs and colleagues for the good work they have done on this important report. in the epp group we have wanted to emphasise the importance and the role of smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups in this report, as it is important that they too should be able to make better use of the opportunities offered by the data economy. it is also important for us to accelerate investment in the digitalisation of businesses, both private and public, across europe and to channel funding to training and research in this area, so that we can really take advantage of all the opportunities that the data economy will bring. it is particularly important now to highlight the potential of smes in the next steps, as smes are a huge part of our economy and are responsible for an increasing share of jobs. we must therefore look for solutions, not just for the things that are now emphasized in the report. the streamlining of data flows is certainly important, but we also need to find better ways for smes to be able to make better use of the data they already own and produce and to create new services and innovations. we also need to assess whether our own legislation at european level is up to date in this respect, so that it really encourages the sharing of data. the data protection regulation must also be considered in particular, since we often know that industrial data and personal data relating to individuals are linked. if it contains even a small amount of personal data, it is treated as such and it is possible that a large part of that potential is not exploited.
i would like to thank mrs miapetra kumpula-natri for her overall work on the european data strategy. i welcome the call for a transparent economy, which respects the right to privacy and does not create additional conditions for the increase of social inequalities. the accelerated and widespread deployment of ai-based technologies, together with the creation of european data spaces, will radically change the very concepts of work, workplace and working time. it is therefore necessary to establish a european regulatory framework to guarantee the social rights of workers. the covid-19 crisis has demonstrated the need to build a pan-european health data space. at the same time, i am convinced that we should not allow the emergency to be used as a pretext to reduce citizens' control over their personal health data. in a digitized world, the abundance of data is increasing, and with it, our opportunities, but the information masses are hiding risks to democracy and individual rights, which we must consider before we get drunk on opportunities, because it is democracy and freedom that unites us.
madam president, commissioner, the republic of north macedonia is not fulfilling the agreement with bulgaria and continues the anti-bulgarian campaign. the genocide of bulgarians during the communist regime has not yet been condemned, the policy of changing the identity of deceased bulgarians, cultural and educational workers, freedom fighters, as well as the theft of the bulgarian cultural and historical heritage continues. this, mr. kuciuk, commissioner, is a crime, not a dispute over history. in skopje, they don't speak macedonian, but the language of hatred against bulgarians and bulgaria. the amendment ii proposed by the socialists and greens is scandalous and offensive to bulgaria. fellow citizens, do not support him, do not insult my country. ladies and gentlemen, bulgaria wants to admit the republic of north macedonia to the european union, but only after this country has been vaccinated against the communist corona virus of the past.
madam president, as the european parliament we must send the right messages in all directions and in particular to the people of serbia. i would like to stress that the european perspective of the country will change the current situation, will positively influence the way politicians conduct their domestic affairs and will give hope for a better future to all its citizens. it is very important that reforms in serbia are promoted in a transparent and inclusive manner, with the involvement of all political forces in the country and civil society. in this way, positive changes will be made in the daily lives of all the inhabitants of the country, ensuring new jobs, with the necessary protection for the underprivileged in society. this is very important, especially for the youth, so that they can stay in the country and believe in a better future. further progressive reforms in serbia will bring it even closer to the european union, allowing it to continue its accession process smoothly. i recognize that difficulties remain and that much work and practical implementation of the agreements are still needed. as the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, we will continue to fight for democratic accountability, the rule of law, media freedom, the fight against corruption, and we will continue to advocate for the safeguarding and implementation of fundamental human rights. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, on kosovo the european union needs a unique position, but five member states are still opposing recognition. four are neighbours of the region, but the fifth? it’s spain. why? what is spain’s problem with kosovo? colleagues, spain’s problem is not about kosovo: it’s the ‘c’ problem. ‘c’ as in catalonia. in a landmark decision on kosovo, the international court of justice ruled that international law does not prohibit unilateral declarations of independence. this applies to kosovo, but it also applies to catalonia. spain’s tantrum about kosovo expresses their fear to set a precedent that threatens their sacred unity. the eu cannot have a unique position on kosovo because spain is obsessed that unity is more sacred than democracy and human rights. the unity of spain is not sacred! it is, with the crown of the corrupt borbón family, an imposition from the political will of general franco, the only fascist dictator never defeated in europe. it is time to move on. spain must recognise kosovo and let catalans decide about their future.
madam president, let me first thank my colleague vlado bilčík for his hard work on this file, and for vigorously supporting serbia’s path to the eu. the creeping malign influence of the chinese communist party and other authoritarian regimes across the western balkans is increasingly worrying. in particular, chinese investments are emblematic of its growing malign influence in serbia and elsewhere in the western balkans. chinese investment, as highlighted in the case of several heavy industry projects in smederevo, bor and kostolac, as well as the tyre plant in zrenjanin, lack transparency and sustainability, cause serious environmental damage, have negative impact on labour rights and have a corrosive effect on democratic governance. this is why it is important that the european union takes this malign influence seriously, and works with the governments and civil society to help the countries of the western balkans to become more resilient to the negative impact of chinese investments as part of their eu accession process.
madam president, on the report on the republic of north macedonia, i do not wish to confront my colleagues from my parliamentary group, because we have always fought the battles side by side, but today i can only speak as a bulgarian. some of the proposed amendments deepen the existence of a problem. taking sides in this conflict is a barrier to dialogue and an aggravating factor in the confrontation. it is used on the one hand in bulgaria by extreme fascist and nationalist parties in an election campaign, and in macedonia for additional pressure on all those people who have bulgarian self-consciousness. we are for the progress of the republic of north macedonia, but it can only be achieved through respect and through respect for good neighbourly relations. the bulgarian-macedonian dialogue needs dynamo, not dynamite.
madam president, the police officer. if we know the importance of serbia in the region, we must also know that delaying accession is also against the eu's own interests. that is why we in the fidesz delegation have always worked to make serbia a full member of the eu as soon as possible. nevertheless, the text of the report lacks sufficient objectivity because of the amendments tabled by the left-wing members. it questions, for example, the legitimacy of last year's elections, the composition of the serbian parliament, whereas on these issues serbian citizens have already expressed a strong opinion in the elections. the report is critical of serbia's health system and its handling of the epidemic, while serbia has far outpaced the member states from which these criticisms have come in terms of vaccinations. you should be sweeping your own yard. some eu member states, including hungary, have already experienced the use of ep reports as a tool to deal with political opponents. however, if this method is used against a candidate country, it sends a very bad message. therefore, for us, the representatives of fidesz, the report on serbia is unacceptable.
madam president, the police officer. i am convinced that european integration is the guarantee of stability in the western balkans. and the eu has an interest in a prosperous western balkans region that is able to effectively protect its borders. that's why i'm urging you to speed up the accession process. from the national reports, we've heard a lot about this today, i'd like to draw attention to another aspect. the serbian report, unlike previous reports, is markedly critical and one-sided in its treatment of serbia, which has a right-wing conservative government. but it is a stabilizing factor in the region, and it clearly wants a peaceful settlement. it has made significant progress in relations with its neighbours, is vigorously protecting the external borders of the european union, and its economy is performing well despite the global pandemic. one of the pioneers of the covid vaccine. however, when i look closely at the other reports, i find that the reports on north macedonia, albania or kosovo, which are governed by the left, are much more permissive, and i see the double standard that is so often used in the european parliament. it's a different kind of measurement. a policy-based approach does not contribute to stability in the western balkans. we are questioning the acceptance of the union in these countries.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank all the members of this house for the continued very strong support for the european perspective of the whole western balkans region. now more than ever we must show that the eu will continue to stand with our western balkan partners and to support the whole region during this pandemic. the future of the western balkan region lies in the european union. it is not only their interest, it is our interest. they are surrounded by eu member states, they are integrated and getting even more integrated into our economies but also into our societies. the region is clearly committed to an eu path. now it is time for us also to deliver. as you know this commission is very heavily committed to deliver on this promise and we need the support of the member states, we need the support of this house, to be able to move on and move fast.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank you for this fruitful debate and for the constructive engagement of the european parliament in the western balkans region. i would also like to express my sincere gratitude for the excellent work and commitment of the rapporteurs, of all these very important reports which have been presented here today. in this difficult year marked by the pandemic, we will continue to work in all areas to support the western balkan partners on their european path. reforms are crucial. progress is being closely monitored and we encourage political leaders to continue to work with enthusiasm and commitment for the good of their citizens, to ensure constructive dialogue in the region, its economic and social development and its path towards accession to the union. i can assure you that the presidency will continue to work in this area, will continue to welcome all the progress that is being made by the candidate countries, despite the different circumstances and the difficult times we are going through. we reiterate our commitment to the process of accession of the western balkans to the union. we all know this is a difficult, complex path. we know that there is still a lot to be done in terms of the necessary reforms, particularly in the area of reforms of the administration, of the judicial systems, of the fight against corruption, of respect for the rule of law and of fundamental values, but this dialogue is fundamental for the union and for the balkan countries. the pandemic has demonstrated the importance and value of standing together and responding together to these common challenges that are ours.
in writing. in general, i am not in favour of recognition of kosovo as an independent state being a sine qua non condition imposed on serbia for possible accession to the european union, whatever one's opinion on the substance of this enlargement. at present, five eu member states still do not recognise kosovo, including spain. in the world, it is powers like india, russia and china that maintain a similar position. moreover, recent news does not advocate normalization of relations with serbia, despite the washington agreements signed under the aegis of donald trump. this is evidenced by the recent statement by albin kurti, once again the prime minister of kosovo, to euronews, in which he said that he would vote in favour of a possible referendum on the unification of albania and kosovo. finally, turkey's attitude during the controversy over the establishment of a kosovar diplomatic representation in jerusalem, in the wake of the aforementioned washington agreements, has highlighted erdogan's growing interference in the balkans.
in writing. the future of the western balkans lies in europe. the majority of the political forces in this parliament agree with this perspective. but each country and each candidate will be judged individually. the course of reforms and the fulfilment of the accession criteria obviously vary from country to country. we must support the balkan applicant countries, but the applicant countries must also make the necessary commitments and implement the necessary reforms. good neighbourly relations are crucial to the progress of the accession negotiations. many are calling for us to move beyond regional differences and the sometimes difficult past and to focus on the future. but this cannot be done at the expense of history. if we do not resolve the outstanding differences, if we simply 'hide the problems under the carpet', we are bound to face new conflicts in the future.
the agenda includes the debate on the commission statement on the assassination of daphne caruana galizia and the rule of law in malta (2021/2611 ((rsp)). i would remind all honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the discussions of this part-session, nor will there be any 'blue-card' questions. as in previous sessions, the parliament's representative offices in the member states will also be responsible for remote assistance.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for inviting the commission to this debate. the commission has always condemned the brutal assassination of daphne caruana galizia in the strongest possible terms. it was a shocking event and a stark reminder that the safety of journalists is not a given, even in a democratic european union. the right of a journalist to investigate, ask uncomfortable questions and report, is at the heart of democracy. it needs to be guaranteed at all times. the commission is closely following the developments in the criminal investigation regarding the murder of daphne caruana galizia. we have repeatedly stressed the need for those responsible for her assassination to be brought to justice, without any political interference. the commission has also welcomed the ongoing public inquiry as a positive aspect, as it also gives the possibility to civil society in malta to monitor developments and to play a role in defending the rule of law. and indeed, the inquiry praised a strong public demand for a strengthened capacity to tackle corruption and wider rule-of-law reforms. the work of daphne caruana galizia unveiled patterns of corruption, fraud and money laundering. recent events resulting from a magisterial inquiry that was inspired by daphne’s work are very symbolic. they show the value and importance of media freedom in a free and open society, and today they also show that the prosecution and justice system in malta can work. we all, and particularly her family, expect that justice be ultimately fully served. the 2020 rule-of-law report acknowledges that a number of significant reforms of the maltese justice system were adopted last year. in particular, the reforms of the system of judicial appointments and of disciplinary proceedings aim at strengthening judicial independence and the system of the separation of powers. they also aim at responding to some of the venice commission’s recommendations and the recommendations from the european commission and from the council in the framework of the european semester. also a prosecution service under the authority of the office of the attorney general, and fully separate from the state advocate, has been set up and these are all steps in the right direction. but important concerns remain as regards the efficiency of the justice system – the judicial proceedings being very long at all levels, and in all categories of cases. as regards the anti-corruption framework, it still lacks a track record of securing convictions in high-level corruption cases. we take note that authorities have launched broad reforms to address gaps and strengthen the institutional anti-corruption framework, including law enforcement and prosecution. the effective implementation of these reforms will show the extent to which the maltese government has addressed the recommendations from the venice commission and the group of states against corruption – greco – in addition to those from the european commission. the assassination of daphne caruana galizia was widely seen as an attack on the free press. it triggered concerns about media freedom and the safety of journalists in malta and beyond. we see the increasing number of threats against investigative journalists online and offline across the whole of europe. and this is why we need to act. the commission is now working on a recommendation to member states on the safety of journalists. on tuesday i opened the first ever european news media forum with a dialogue on the safety of journalists. several members of the european parliament participated in this event and today it is matthew caruana galizia, the son of daphne caruana galizia and the director of the daphne caruana galizia foundation, who is delivering the closing address at this event. other areas of concern regarding the media in malta include the effective independence of the media regulator. the ownership, control or management by the two main political parties in malta of multiple maltese media outlets continues to have a significant impact on the maltese media landscape. the reforms of institutional rules, such as limiting the role of the prime minister in the appointment of independent commissions, aim at strengthening the overall system of checks and balances and at responding to some of the recommendations made by the venice commission. in light of these findings, the commission has called on the maltese authorities to do three things in particular. one, continue with its reform efforts. two, ensure a wide consultation of society on these reforms. and three, ensure a proper implementation of the reforms already adopted. the commission has underlined the need for an inclusive approach when preparing and adopting structural reforms that have a strong impact on the rule of law. it is also important to follow the recommendations from the council of europe. such reforms can only succeed when support for them is widespread in the society. this is why it is vital that all relevant actors, including civil society organisations and the people, have their say. the commission is in contact with the maltese authorities in the spirit of sincere cooperation in order to support reform steps.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, when daphne caruana galizia was assassinated in a horrific car bomb in october 2017, it was clear that she could only have been killed because of what she wrote or because of what she was about to write. for years, she had been exposing corruption in power right up to the office of the prime minister himself. since then, the judicial process has been moving slowly but surely. we recognise that. but the public institutions remain politically captured and the political consequences have been totally absent, until now. this is a matter of major concern for us. new developments in court are deeply disturbing: a former minister and deputy leader of the ruling labour party has been named by one of the killers as having known about the plot and tipped off the killers. and just this week, on tuesday, the two other killers also offered information about the involvement of ministers. this means that the ruling party knew about the plot to kill daphne. i have no words to describe how shocking this is. when i hear these things i ask myself: how is this possible in today’s european union? but what is even worse is that there have been no consequences at all for the moment, no arrests, no resignation, no political consequences, nothing. it’s as if nothing has happened in malta, and this is unacceptable for the european union of today. when public institutions are politically captured, they obstruct justice instead of serving justice. this becomes a problem of rule of law, not only for malta, but for all of us. and this is why we are seriously worried about what is happening today in malta, because the government is not allowing the institutions to work, because the people who should be brought to justice are part or were part of the government itself. i repeat: this is unacceptable. so we expect the maltese government to clean up its house because these things are not acceptable. the epp stands with the people of malta in their fight for justice.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the rule of law must be a priority for every member state, and no one should shy away from such a debate. it's the key to mutual trust. the tragic fate of daphne galizia has shaken us all. we insisted on decisive action so that we would never witness what happened to daphne again. in malta we are already seeing a desire for change, and there is also a trial going on. i personally believe that justice will be served soon. we owe it to daphne's family, to journalists in europe and to all european citizens. you also want us to adopt a resolution. we'll adopt him but i ask you: what are we doing with bulgaria, hungary, slovenia? i would like to remind you that we recently adopted a resolution on bulgaria in this very house. what happened in bulgaria after that? i didn't say anything. nothing happened to him. the bulgarian prime minister never commented on the resolution. i would like to ask my colleagues in the epp how long will the rule of law be a matter of political mathematics? finally, my question to the commission is: when will it start using the regulation to link the rule of law to the budget? how long will you shake hands with leaders like orbán and borissov, who are destroying the foundation of our democratic societies?
mr. president, the house. research and innovation are the union's most important resources in the post-coronavirus crisis. the success depends on three factors: the level of ambition, in particular with regard to resources, the strength of the institutional framework and geographical balance. the ambition is clearly there for cross-sector and cross-border cooperation, thanks to commissioner gabriel. with a budget of almost €100 billion, horizon europe will be the world's most ambitious research and innovation programme. however, the resources can only be used through well-functioning and flexible institutions. one example is the european institute of innovation and technology, based in budapest, which supports thousands of researchers and innovative businesses. finally, it is gratifying to note that the proposed programmes emphasise the principle of geographical balance in the allocation of resources. only a united european union can meet the great challenges of our time, and this requires the support of the scientific capacity of all member states.
mr president, it is not an overstatement to say that the prosperity of europe’s future, whether in social, economic or health terms, depends on research and innovation. we rely on research and innovation to become more resilient for future crises, and we rely on research and innovation to adapt to our globalised world, mitigating climate change. the debate today concludes months of negotiations, and i’d like to congratulate our extraordinary commissioner mariya gabriel and the extraordinary team of rapporteurs, mr ehler, mr nica, ms carvalho and ms matias. horizon europe will be by far the most ambitious public-funded programme globally in the field of research and innovation, helping us boost new technologies and digitalisation and helping us to achieve our green deal targets and ambitions. in the health area, horizon europe will open many opportunities: fighting cancer, it is now closer to being mission possible, with joint efforts from the mission on cancer, the eu beating cancer plan and actions supported from the eu4health programme.
mr president, commissioner gabriel, colleagues, three years ago we started the reform of the innovation and research package and we could not have imagined that such a devastating pandemic would disrupt our lives. but we kept the bar straight. we have even strengthened the horizon europe programme for the future, one of the most ambitious ever, not only in terms of budget, as has been said, but also as a practical support for basic and excellent research - i am thinking of the european research council - and for innovation and technology transfer. there is a new pillar, innovative europe, which rests on two legs: the european innovation council is a new initiative, which will support high-risk innovative projects, especially in deep tech, by supporting smes and start-ups from the initial idea to market access. the european institute of innovation and technology is strengthened and reformed in its vocation for the knowledge triangle: more education, more research, more innovation and more entrepreneurship. without research and innovation, without taking the risk to dare and think out of the box, we will never have the acceleration needed to achieve the revolutionary goals of the green deal and the digital green in the coming decades.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. if you look at the latest edition of the european innovation scoreboard, it shows that we still have a deep divide in europe: the top of the ranking is five times more innovative than the countries at the bottom of the ranking. this 'innovation diversity map' coincides with the macro-regional map, leaving southern and central eastern europe in the innovation lagging zone. but if you look at the data from the recent pisa survey on math skills in schoolchildren, it's a more diverse picture. the top four countries with the best indicators are the netherlands and belgium, which are among the innovation leaders, but there is also estonia, which is considered a strong innovator, and poland, which is at the bottom of the moderate innovator group. in the ranking of skills in the area of so-called scientific performance, estonia and poland also lead the ranking. and that is the question: can we harness the talents of young people from central and eastern and southern europe? if europe is to break the innovation deadlock, reverse the start-up exodus, and make european entities the top innovators, we need to tap the potential of europe as a whole. horizon europe must also be committed to this.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to congratulate the commissioner on the introduction of the programme. the european union invested in a vaccine against covid-19, and we had a quick, great success. but in the past, it was different, because in the lisbon strategy, until two decades ago, we promised ourselves that within ten years we would be the most innovative economy in the world. we haven't gotten there yet, and we're still a long way from there, despite all the successes we've had. but now we have a very good start: we have 30% more money than in the previous framework programme, horizon 2020. we have the european innovation council first. this is what we need more innovation, because europe is really at the top of the science ladder. and we also have missions that will be more understandable to the citizens: fighting cancer, countering smog and all the effects of smog on our continent. we also provide twice the funding to increase the participation of horizon europe researchers and companies from countries such as poland. i am very pleased about this, because as rapporteur for the seventh framework programme i started this action for countries that are a little behind. we do not want a europe of many speeds, especially in science and research! the european institute of innovation and technology - i must emphasise this - has done a good job of leveling the playing field. this is also great news for my region, silesia, where we are making great use of the skills and opportunities offered by the european institute. and finally, we will not win the european green deal without success in innovation, in new technologies!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the climate crisis will mean a change in our way of life, our economies. but we will also need new technology and new innovation: green, carbon-free steel, sustainable batteries and renewable hydrogen. we are now making a historic investment in green innovation and green research. this is the eu research programme horizon europe, which i was involved in negotiating during the last mandate. the budget is over 900 billion, and one third of that is going to go to green innovation and green climate action. in other words, we've green-fixed over 300 billion for the climate. these are the innovations that will help us get all the way down to zero emissions. i'm proud of that.
mr president, this is a very positive debate. we are celebrating a huge increase of 30% in the research budget of the european union thanks to cooperation and it just shows what can be achieved when we work together. i would like to particularly compliment my colleague, christian ehler, who devoted most of his political career here in mastering the whole research area and also maria da graça carvalho, who was involved particularly in the cultural side. i’m very pleased that the eu establishes a start-up fund under the kic/eit to all grants and make equity investments to help small-and medium-sized companies scale up to new technologies. this is very important for smes across europe. and also i’m delighted to see eur 100 million for the cluster culture and creativity. this will help to safeguard our cultural heritage and help our cultural and artistic assets, museums and cultural institutions recover from the difficulties caused by the pandemic, which is very important because they have suffered a lot.
mr. chairman, we live in unprecedented times, and the need for science and innovation has never been greater. we are at a tipping point and europe must use this programme to support and accelerate structural innovation in areas of strategic interest. and here, of course, i'm thinking about artificial intelligence and the data economy. like the steam engine and electricity, artificial intelligence is changing the world. it can enable doctors to better diagnose and develop new treatments, reduce energy consumption, and contribute to a cleaner environment. the aim of this pilot project is to develop a european strategy for the digital economy, which will be based on the principles of the digital single market and the digital single market. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment. by increasing citizens' trust in new technologies and investing in education, we can together focus on building a better world of tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, the pandemic and its socioeconomic consequences have shown the key role of science in managing global catastrophes. it is thanks to the rapid mobilisation of funds in short timeframes and the synchronised efforts of scientific teams at european and international level that the hope of a rapid return to normalcy has been established. the key word for success is solidarity. solidarity in overcoming geographical disparities in scientific capacity between member states, solidarity by ensuring adequate remuneration and career development opportunities for scientists in all countries of the union, solidarity with countries such as bulgaria whose scientists migrate abroad by creating incentives for the return of highly qualified individuals. however, the crisis has taught us about decentralisation and remote working, which we can take as a constructive lesson for the future. closing the gap between eastern and western europe in science and innovation will be the true measure of success of the new 'horizon europe' programme.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have been involved in this important report. our strength lies in our open internal borders, in the single market, in freedom of movement, education, business and trade. with the civil protection mechanism and react-eu, we are adding an important, even mandatory, element to our strength: mutual assistance and solidarity in disaster situations, both in response and in preparation for natural disasters, accidents and epidemics. we are not just providing a common budget, but above all we are bringing together our human resources, our scientific knowledge, our response skills. last but not least, it is important that member states and our common institutions also join forces with the main humanitarian organisations such as the red cross, because a considerable part of the human resources and knowledge is concentrated in them. we need to make further efforts in this direction.
madam chairman, i am appalled by the outcome of these negotiations. it seems that for the past five years you've been negotiating these matters, which obviously have some interest. but culture and education, as always, are left to chance. how was the united kingdom allowed to impose a harsh regime on the entry of artists and cultural workers into its territory without reciprocal measures from the european union? maybe it doesn't seem important to you, because you're not interested in european artists at all. these restrictions will have a catastrophic effect on their ability to enter uk territory and de facto close that market and that part of the public. in the meantime, british artists and creators will have quick and easy access to the whole of the european union to carry out their cultural activities. you've given them a bigger and richer market, and we've got nothing in return. it seems to me that you have sold out the european artists and artists. we cannot have normal neighbourly relations if our cultural workers do not have equal rights. what kind of cultural exchange are we talking about? we need to arrange easy access to the uk for people who travel there to do creative work. under the current arrangement, we leave our artists to wait for visas, which are very often denied for political reasons. i stress that in a time when the cultural sector is suffering the most, i stress that too, from this pandemic, we cannot afford to abandon our artists in this way. perhaps in the future it would be better not to appoint bureaucrats to negotiate on behalf of the artists, but people with real experience and understanding of how the cultural sector actually works.
the committee on foreign affairs and security adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, the objective of the union budget, particularly for actions in the candidate countries or third countries, should be to promote our values, such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for international law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. this should be reflected in all our actions. unfortunately, this does not seem to concern the commission, as 'despite the thousands of prisoners, turkey's continued departure from european values and the exploitation of refugees and migrants', turkey continues to benefit from european programmes and is co-financing the purchase of four turkish coastguard vessels. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the commission cannot go against these political guidelines given by parliament. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. so you should have a different treatment for that money.
we are going to have a discharge vote and i, as coordinator of the cont committee for the epp, would like to say a few important words. first of all, thank you very much to everyone who was involved in the discharge. it is a clear signal that european finance must be in order. the european union must be the showcase for transparency and the use of taxpayers' money, which is why we have long called for reform of european finances. we should not be supporting private companies of oligarchs, but we should be directing money as loans where there can be further added value. the european union must change, it must bring a vision and it must give that vision a concrete position. we can no longer tolerate european money being used to pay for the housing of oligarchs. we can no longer tolerate the oligarchs getting more and more money. we must send a clear signal that europe is changing and that europe wants to turn its back on organised crime in the future and wants to fight those who misuse this money.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the commission’s discharge procedure is definitely an essential instrument for the european parliament to oversee the spending of the eu budget and to be able to evaluate the achievements in the performance of the common policies and goals. we welcome the work done by the commission and the positive developments compared with last year’s discharge, especially in the areas of cohesion, national resources and administration. we acknowledge the positive aspects, i.e. that the overall level of irregularities in eu spending remained relatively stable at 2.7%, which is comparable to the 2018 discharge. of course there are still some areas for improvement and we would recommend focusing on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts. we would therefore like to recommend granting the discharge for 2019 to the commission and of course we encourage the commission to continue working towards simplifying the rules under which the eu budget is spent. regarding the resolution itself, the initial proposal for the resolution was one-sided and it did not present a fair evaluation of the work of the commission. we believe that our political role is to present a balanced and objective evaluation of the work done by the commission, and we should try to work on that during both of the amendments which are proceeding now. with regard to the discharge of the european development fund, we welcome this year’s report and we would also recommend granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the european development fund for the financial year 2019.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. tourism is the sector most affected by the pandemic. the sector employs over 27 million people, the largest group being women, who are also the most affected by the pandemic. let us also not forget that tourism in the european union is not just global chains or hotels with a few seats, but above all family businesses, smes, restaurants and many other services that make regions attractive to tourists. they're all waiting for support and help. unfortunately, we often see that support and help don't reach those who need it most. and they put together these huge hotels with these small family-run tourism businesses, where it's much easier to maintain sanitation and where they could have opened much earlier. therefore, there seems to be a lack of a comprehensive european approach to tackling the sector's problems. there is no specific budget line for tourism at european union level and there is no such rapid, vigorous action by the commission, which we very much ask for, commissioner.
madam president, with the approach of the summer season, we are all concerned about the measures to recover the tourism sector - a strategic sector, most hit by the covid crisis. tourism has many faces, it's not just the huge hotels and the big tour operators. he's that student who works the summer to pay her rent. he's the old grandmother who rents out one or two rooms. he's also her neighbor who sells candy to tourists. but with the introduction of covid certificates, we're going to make it a lot easier to travel. we will do it easier, faster and safer, because we are currently in the absurd situation of having 27 member states with 27 different requirements. we also need to look at third-country tourists and facilitate their travel, or at least those of them who meet the requirements for issuing covid certificates to eu citizens. the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and on the environment protection of the union's forests.
madam chairman, covid the certificates have only one purpose: to facilitate the movement of european citizens within the european union by introducing universal rules. rules that are the same for everyone, whether it's a bulgarian going on holiday to greece or a german travelling to italy, and rules that apply not only to entering a foreign country but also to returning to one's own, which very often turns out to be an even bigger problem. in general, i think this regulation is even overdue, because we all witnessed last year, when there were no vaccines, how 27 member states accept 27 different requirements, different types of tests allowed, different quarantine duration, etc. moreover, member states actively encouraged their citizens not to travel. the european parliament's proposal is therefore proof of the protection of european union citizens in their intention to travel more easily, including with free tests, with the limited duration of the regulation, etc. and finally, whoever does not want to take out the certificate can continue to travel under the old rules and this must be emphasized because we have to say "stop" to all propaganda and false information.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! russia is a beautiful and rich country. it's fine to trade with the rich, but the medellín cartel is rich, too, and we don't trade with them, and we go after those of our citizens who want to trade with them. ladies and gentlemen, is president putin not acting like the medellin cartel? that's the way it is. we've been talking about this for hours. am i suggesting that we break off relations with russia? no, but i'm proposing a change of language. reagan used to talk to russia effectively. today, our high representative is effectively silent. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is not a requirement to change spanish to english. and to naval freedom!
madam president, honourable vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, 35 years have passed since the chernobyl tragedy. russia was silent about the accident at the time, sacrificing thousands of lives and health on the altar of its regime. that was, and unfortunately still is, the essence of this regime. now, perhaps, everyone in the european union has sobered up, even the last of the proponents of the idea that it is possible to work with the putin regime. today we also see that the operations of the russian secret services do not avoid any country, including the czech republic. and we want to make it clear that our czech and european law applies on our territory. russian agents must not destroy our property or bulgarian property, must not kill our citizens or european citizens. russia must pay for this terrorist attack, pay for all the damage it has caused. in europe, an attack on one is an attack on all. after all, the time bomb could have exploded anywhere along the way: in bulgaria, in hungary, anywhere. we can clearly see that the kremlin is stepping up its activities in ukraine, against its opposition, but also in other european countries, through disinformation campaigns, violence, intimidation. russia has not yet been punished for its terrorist attacks. the families of the victims in the vorticie, the residents and the surrounding area deserve justice. we greatly appreciate the solidarity of our colleagues here in the european parliament, in the european union and in nato. we see the solution in a joint and coordinated approach. we have only one chance to show the citizens the strength of our community. it's a weapon that putin is very afraid of, which is why he's trying to divide us. there is blood on putin's hands. let's tell the citizens! that's right, you did. and let's try to prevent any more bloodshed! after all, alexei navalny's life is in danger. alexei navalny must be released! let's support him!
madam president, the russian federation is not willing to find common ground in respecting european values, standards and principles. this has been proven by the undemocratic incarceration and the treatment of alexei navalny. the military build-up on the border of ukraine poses a threat to peace and security in the region. we need to take seriously the conclusions of the czech authorities based on extensive investigation of the russian involvement in the 2014 explosion in the czech republic. i express my full support to our czech friends and colleagues and our ukrainian partners and i call for the immediate and unconditional release of alexei navalny. as the european union, we need a united stance against future interference and threats from russia. this should be coordinated in close cooperation with our partners in nato. at the same time i express my continued support for a diplomatic solution, such as the normandy format and the work of the organization for security and cooperation in europe. i call on russia for the full implementation of the minsk agreements.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the growing geopolitical and military tensions in the black sea region. such an environment presents many future risks. the black sea is too small for such a dangerous military buildup. following the steps taken to manage the crisis in eastern ukraine, it has become more important to engage in consultations with ukraine and russia in a dialogue format, a format that fosters mutual trust, in order to avoid escalation and the risk of misunderstandings. the official platform for these consultations will be the implementation or adaptation of the minsk agreements and the maintenance of the normandy format. these are important tools that we must use to restore the security environment in the black sea region. all problems must be resolved by peaceful means.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. after long and extremely difficult negotiations, we have managed to reach an agreement that meets the expectations of passengers and - i am sure - also stabilises the legal situation of carriers. the new regulations will certainly have a positive impact on improving rail passenger conditions and protecting the environment, thus contributing to the objectives and implementation of the green deal. it will soon be easier for people with reduced mobility and disabilities to travel by rail. the compensation system and the assistance to passengers in the event of a delay will also be improved. the new rules also provide for the obligation to provide passenger assistance and re-routing in the event of a delay or cancellation of a journey, providing passengers with alternatives to recover the costs incurred. for example, in the event of delays exceeding 100 minutes, railway undertakings will be obliged to redirect passengers in any way possible and to assist them in finding the best alternative. the trains - which is also very important and should also be highly appreciated - will be equipped with four special seats and racks, so-called bicycle racks. on the other hand - and this is another very important advantage of this regulation - it guarantees railway undertakings the necessary transitional periods for the implementation of new standards in passenger services. given that this year is the year of the rail, i think this regulation fits perfectly into the logic of building a strong railway in europe.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, we are talking about rail passenger rights. the recasting of this regulation brings some improvements, which we value in universal accessibility, in ensuring simple refund and compensation procedures, in a ticketing system that is as unified as possible or in encouraging intermodality, especially with light modes of transport such as bicycles. but it is important to consider the context in which these rights are exercised. there is a first and fundamental right which should be granted to all rail passengers: that of being able to enjoy a quality, modern, efficient, functional, intermodal, safe and affordable public service, or even free of charge, for example in urban areas. the railways must be part of a strategic and sovereign development logic. but all this is countered by the policy and legislative framework that has been created by the european union to promote segmentation, liberalisation and privatisation of the railway sector. it is this picture that must be reversed, and its effects. the focus must shift from so-called competitiveness, from centralisation in a federal logic, from monopolistic concentration which favours the european giants of the sector, to public service, national sovereignty, economic, social and territorial cohesion, integration which takes advantage of the synergies between operation and infrastructure and not segmentation which benefits business but harms, and in what way, the public interest.
madam president! today we're talking about railway passengers, because the railway doesn't work without passengers. we talk about their rights and about strengthening those rights and thereby encourage the carriers to make the necessary and expected changes. every compromise is born in pain and is not satisfying. i very much regret that the amendments which i tabled in the committee on transport and which proposed fairer compensation for train delays, the possibility of using a combined ticket for longer journeys with transfers, better conditions for passengers with disabilities (so that they can inform staff of the necessity of travel and assistance not 24 hours before the planned journey but a few hours before), more bicycle seats (since today we see how much mobility there is, especially for young people, in this respect) were not taken into account. i regret to say that the rights and protection of rail passengers in the light of the document we are discussing today are far less than those of travellers who choose to travel by air. but of course it's better that there are some rights and the enforcement of those rights than if there were no such document. i also hope that during the final vote, my colleagues in the european parliament will be able to support the amendments so that passengers are satisfied, because today, in the year of the rail, we should stand by them and strengthen their rights. thank you to everyone who worked on this documentary.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, our hopes have not been fulfilled. we've made some small improvements. that's right, i'll admit that. but we also have enormous deteriorations and two deteriorations for which i am actually ashamed of the european parliament: this is the introduction of force majeure, which we have not had before, and to say, yes, we have it in the air passenger rights area, then we would have to do it there too. why not go the other way, that we make an improvement in the rights of air passengers instead of a reduction in the rights for rail passengers? why do we have to wait until 100 minutes to reroute and not 60 minutes as we have done so far? i think it's a shame. i shall be voting in favour of all the amendments.
madam president, the aim of this new regulation, which should be implemented within two years, is to bring compensation to the passenger of a train in the event of delay on a par with that already enjoyed by airline passengers in the event of delay or cancellation. from one hundred minutes of delay, the companies must offer alternatives and provide for the maintenance and even accommodation of those affected if the circumstances so require. only a natural disaster, a health emergency or extreme weather conditions can exempt companies from these compensations, but not from ticket refunds. the accessibility of railways for disabled people is also greatly improved, with shorter periods for requesting assistance for travel and free seats for companions of passengers with reduced mobility. in addition, airlines must offer single tickets for successive combined journeys. the regulation also promotes sustainable mobility by requiring that each convoy have at least four seats for the free transport of users' bicycles. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the railway sector. facts and market studies show that this is the 'best-ever' way to encourage the use of the most energy- and climate-efficient means of transport. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs intended for human consumption, as amended by the council directive of 18 december 1992, is a step in the right direction.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner johansson, i have to ask you to leave. it is far too difficult to book long-distance travel across national borders by train in europe, despite the fact that demand for sustainable travel is growing rapidly. an example of this is that in sweden we have a facebook group called "train holidays", where 117,000 swedes gather around the question "how do you actually book a train trip in europe?" of course, we can't have that. you don't have to spend hours researching and piecing together a train journey yourself with different operators. you need to be able to download an app or go to a website and then search all the train companies in europe and book a coherent trip if you feel i'm in borås, but i want to go to venice. after all, when you have booked such a continuous journey, you have to know that you will actually arrive, so that a family with small children is not stranded in hamburg if the danish train caused you to be delayed from copenhagen. unfortunately, this proposal does not solve these problems. there are some good drafts, but unfortunately the requirements will not come into force for another nine years, and even then there are loopholes. we can't wait that long. sustainable travel in europe must be possible now.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. the railways, like other modes of transport, have been hit hard by the pandemic. the process of returning to passenger numbers on trains before 2019 will certainly take months, if not years, but with the adoption of this regulation we can significantly accelerate it. it brings about beneficial changes in many areas that are associated with rail travel. this includes better care for disabled people and people with reduced mobility, who still face architectural and legal barriers in railway stations and platforms. the system for responding to complaints in the event of a delay or cancellation of a train will also be changed, which will be much more favourable to passengers, including in terms of the amount of compensation paid. i congratulate mr bogusław liberadzki on building a compromise that meets the interests of passengers and carriers, giving them time to adjust to often costly and protracted changes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too, of course, welcome the fact that this year is the european year of the railways. i believe it was the wish of all of us, including the rapporteur, to give the best gift to passengers this year, but i'm afraid we gave it to the operators. all too often, during the trialogue, we heard arguments related to the economic burden of the pandemic on operators. there was not enough of the future and too much of the present. and from this point of view, there could be no gift worthy of the european year of rail and passengers. many consumer organisations even feel that the proposed changes are more of a step backwards, especially because of the combined fares, the broad definition of 'exceptional circumstances' and national exemptions. i therefore ask you to give careful consideration to and support the proposed amendments which seek to make environmentally friendly and safe transport as attractive as possible for present and future generations.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. ten years ago, when i was a member of the transport committee, i fought for the right of people with reduced mobility to board trains freely without prior notice, or to indicate, one and a half hours before the train departs, that they would like assistance in getting on. we're not there yet, but we've already made a small step forward. the compromise agreed is that from summer 2026, it will be sufficient to indicate the intention to travel 24 hours earlier than the current 48 hours (and 36 hours earlier in the remaining 5 years). i think that is still too long, and i support the amendment which would reduce the reporting time to 12 hours. however, i am glad that disabled people can travel free of charge with a companion or a service dog if necessary, as has been the case in hungary for many years.
madam president, i am pleased to see that with these new rules, rail passengers will finally have sufficient rights in their travel. this global pandemic has had a devastating impact on international travel, but when flights were cancelled, eu citizens turned to the rights afforded to them by the eu. rail is one of the most energy-efficient modes of transport and it makes sense for europe to promote it as part of a holistic means of making the transport sector more sustainable, but more than that, making europe more connected. more comprehensive consumer rights and more clarity for rail companies will make rail travel more attractive. combined with affordability and faster access to information about connections, it will encourage more passengers to opt for rail transport. there are many positive aspects of these new rules, such as places for bicycles in all trains, the liability of the railway company for the whole journey, and the right to self—reroute. however, i would like to highlight, specifically, the much—improved rights for persons with reduced mobility. for most, the convenience of riding trains is taken for granted, but unfortunately, for many disabled individuals this convenience is just not possible. i hope these new rules will move us closer to easier access for those with reduced mobility. it’s a good step in the right direction.
madam president, colleagues, i congratulate the rapporteur on a timely and meaningful report. it is essential that the amendments to the regulation pay particular attention to persons with reduced mobility. for them, the use of bus transport is extremely difficult and the only alternative is rail. unfortunately, preparation for movement and rail transport is extremely time-consuming and complex. there is an additional charge for accompanying persons, whether human or guide dogs. this amendment is a good step towards increasing the mobility of these people. unlike air transport, rail transport did not address the problems of train delays. it's good that now there's a distinction between suburban and long-distance travel. this distinction will help passengers to be able to claim their rights and compensation respectively in the event of delayed rail transport. work should also be done to promote rail transport as a sustainable, innovative and green mode of transport that can guarantee essential services during anticipated crises. we see that rail has a strategic role to play in connectivity during the pandemic we are experiencing, and as far as passengers are concerned, there is no safer and more secure mode of transport than rail.
mr president, the eu sometimes creates more problems than it solves. with the passenger rights act for rail travellers, we are again missing our target. a similar law for air passengers has proved to be ineffective in practice. it creates a lot of red tape and is expensive. it also distorts competition. this is particularly true of compensation for delays. passengers do not want compensation, but above all reliable transport. in 2007, the eu started drafting this law that is now before us, almost 15 years ago. it has cost a lot of money and it will cost even more when it is introduced. of course, that's what the traveler is up to. all the energy and money we spend on this exercise should be used to build better, faster and more reliable rail links; the aim is to promote rail transport, not to make it more costly through bureaucratic red tape. i therefore ask you all to show courage and either reject this law altogether or to limit the damage and vote against all the amendments.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the regulation on rail passengers' rights and obligations has been long awaited. it debuted in 2017, it was a work of more than three years. sure, we've reached a compromise. we may have wished for more, but we must recognize that with the contribution of the members of the tran committee, with the help of the rapporteur - and i congratulate him on this - we have obtained additional rights for passengers. of course there has to be a balance between the rights of industry and the rights of passengers, but i am very pleased that rights for passengers with reduced mobility have been included, that force majeure has been introduced, that compensation has been introduced for those who are more than 100 minutes late, and i have to say yes, we, the committee on transport and tourism, of which i am a member, have confirmed the agreement reached, as early as october 2020. i hope the house will vote because, in the european year of rail transport, we will have additional rights for passengers.
madam president, commissioners, for the average passenger who takes the train to work, 15 minutes of delay can be fatal because he is threatened with a penalty, even dismissal, by his employer. in 2017, in bulgaria, train delays were 20,400 hours or two years and four months. i am not mentioning 2017 by accident, it is the year of the commission proposal we are voting on today. with the agreement reached, we are introducing minimum common rights for all passengers in the european union. it's only fair to redirect passengers at a certain delay. the force majeure clause, which imposes additional liability on the railway companies, is also a fair solution. people with reduced mobility, it was mentioned, would enjoy improved conditions on trains, and railway companies would be encouraged to use combined tickets. so i urge you, colleagues, to support this proposal, to show responsibility to all those who travel by train every day.
- what? the chairman, mr commissioner, madam, i have to ask you to stop. secretary, colleagues, all children in the union should have access to quality social services, education, health care, decent housing, proper nutrition. but, unfortunately, that is not the case. in 2019, almost 18 million children in the union were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the crisis generated by the pandemic has further exacerbated the problem, placing millions more children and their families in a precarious social and economic situation. lack of access to the internet, digital devices, low levels of digital skills of children and their parents have created serious barriers to effective online learning. children from vulnerable groups and those living in rural areas are particularly affected. i believe that the creation of the european child guarantee will help to overcome these problems. i believe that the future of our children should be our top priority. children have always been a priority for my political party, too. recognizing that they are our future and a beacon of hope for change and a better tomorrow, the movement for rights and freedoms is always behind initiatives in their favour, and our work in this direction will continue until we ensure that no child is at risk and lives in poverty.
- what? the chairman, mr commissioner, madam, i have to ask you to stop. representative of the council, colleagues, here today i express my position, the position of parent organizations, among which the organization rod is the largest and most important and most valuable in bulgaria. we are against the child being treated as an independent entity outside the family. the constitution of our country places the responsibility of raising children and educating them on their parents and the state only helps, only and only helps, does not interfere without cause, does not determine, does not make decisions, but helps. the family in bulgaria is constitutionally constituted by a woman, a man and their children. that means that children are raised and educated by their parents, not by someone outside the family, not by someone making decisions somewhere else. however, on the income side, the average income of bulgarian families will be far lower than the average income calculated in the european union. but this will put many bulgarian families at risk of having their children classified as at-risk and threaten them with restrictive measures, the last of which is removal, of course. we have seen this before in the so-called 'child strategy'. such criteria cannot be set at union level, given that there are countries which do not comply. with this threat, many families will be faced with the risk of having only one child. we in bulgaria love our children, we look after them and we know how to take care of them. there's also legislation that helps when there's a real issue, a real problem, not some gratanjean made-up one, so don't give us the ruse.
member of the commission. madam president, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour, i believe that a strong message has been expressed in this house: there is zero tolerance for child poverty. it is a message, but that message must be translated into action. this is a message that will go to porto, that i am taking to porto, and i hope that all those who have the opportunity to go to porto will express it. if there is a clear, firm, concrete commitment - yes, concrete - that needs to be made in porto, it is that our children are dear to us and because they are dear to us, we cannot tolerate them being poor, being excluded, having their dreams shattered. thank you for this debate, i got the message.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, your words were eloquent. thank you very much. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate. our two institutions have repeatedly reaffirmed the importance of combating social exclusion and discrimination and of protecting the rights of children. i am therefore confident that we as a union are on the right track. we agree on the diagnosis of the situation. our task now must be to turn all this into concrete strategies and programmes. these should be designed to enable children to have effective and free access to essential services, addressing the issue of intergenerational transmission of poverty and social exclusion, in order to enable children's full participation in society. the european pillar of social rights and its action plan and the guarantee for children, the european guarantee for child protection, will be a very important instrument for member states to establish and implement national plans in order to enable us to achieve the objective of reducing by at least 5 million the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2030. only together, with positive and productive cooperation between the council and this parliament, can we help to make real progress and help to build the future of our children, ending child poverty and exclusion once and for all.
in writing. children in the european union are still poor and there are many of them. so far, we have almost 18 million children who are poor or socially excluded. the expected covid-19 pandemic has only further exacerbated existing inequalities and poses a significant problem of increased poverty and social exclusion. women have been the main victims of the pandemic, losing or partially losing their low income, which directly affects their children and further increases poverty. the commission has also identified a number of other measures that could be considered as part of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of the region. i very much welcome the european child guarantee scheme presented by the commission. we, the socialists and democrats, were the initiators of this idea and i am very pleased that it is gradually becoming a practical instrument. the key now is to build political will and to put this measure into practice in all member states, and i would urge member states to seize this opportunity and to use all the opportunities available to build strong child guarantee systems, because investing in children, in their safety, in their education is an investment in the future of us all.
(the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.) we shall now proceed to the agenda and, before we move on to the debates and before the announcement of the first part-session of voting today, i would like to give the floor to mr boeselager, who has asked to speak on his report on parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for the financial year 2022. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal.
thank you very much, colleague boeselager, and thank you also for all your work on this very important file.
the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on budgetary control on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union anti-fraud programme and repealing regulation (eu) no 250/2014 (05330/1/2021 c9 0108/2021 2018/0211 (cod)) (rapporteur: monika hohlmeier) is closed. i would like to inform the house that, as you know, there is no 'catch the eye' procedure or 'blue card' questions in all debates at this part-session and, in addition, as at other partsessions, there are interventions at a distance from our liaison offices in the member states. i would therefore like to begin by giving the floor to our colleague monika hohlmeier, rapporteur for this report. you have the floor.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that we can speak briefly today about the anti-fraud programme. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner, his team and the commission for their very constructive cooperation. i also thank the council for its flexibility and the shadow rapporteurs who negotiated this programme with me. i should also like to thank mr tamás deutsch, who was originally rapporteur, for his support and contribution to the finalisation of this programme. the afp is a key instrument for the protection of the union's financial interests and is managed by the european anti-fraud office (olaf). as the name suggests, it is about fighting fraud, corruption and other irregularities in relation to the eu budget. the aim of the afp is to support cooperation between the administrative authorities of the member states and their cooperation with the commission. and to be honest, there's a lot of confusion in between. if olaf has not been able to access the relevant bank accounts for many years, for example, to find out whether what has been found is actually consistent with the bank accounts, or if important information has been withheld, or if prosecutors are not cooperating because the governments in certain member states do not want it, then the afp is a very important programme, but also some of the other new legislation we have introduced, such as the conditionality mechanism. the afp funds, for example, finance training and equipment and promote the exchange of information and best practice between fraud prevention authorities across europe. the trilogue negotiations were very constructive and resulted in a good and balanced agreement in which we as the european parliament were able to make a good impression on the negotiations on a number of points. as the european parliament we have succeeded in ensuring that there is already a detailed list of eligible measures in the basic act, so that we know what is actually being done and what is being done, and that things are not changed without our involvement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the context of the pif annual report, parliament may make recommendations on the work programme. details of monitoring and evaluation are laid down in a delegated act, which means that the european parliament also has the possibility to veto the choice of indicators if it deems it necessary. as regards the timeframe, we were able to agree on flexible transitional phases recently, because the start was slightly delayed and for this reason it was necessary to start the funding from 1 january 2021 anyway, so that the work in the new mff can continue smoothly. and then in 2027 there should be a similar delay as this time there is no fall-back that will bring this programme to a halt, but you can finance it accordingly until the end of the mff. i would also like to emphasise that the negotiations on this programme, as well as many of parliament's initiatives, meanwhile have led to the european anti-fraud office, the european public prosecutor, eurojust, europol and the court of auditors becoming much more closely linked, exchanging information, exchanging data. i think it is absolutely necessary that the member states cooperate better than they have so far. i am disappointed that the member states are always asked: 'is there a competence that is being handed over?'; and it's not about the question: "what is effective, what works best, what do we need from each other, and how does it work best?" there's a trick and a cover sometimes. there are times in different forms - we have seen it over and over again in the last few weeks, starting with malta, going through hungary, we are seeing it in the czech republic, we are seeing it in greece, we are seeing it in bulgaria; we have a number of problems in various countries, and this means that we have to deal intensively with the fact that we can only guarantee the protection of financial interests, but also the protection of our fundamental values, if the member states are prepared to cooperate effectively and if they are finally also prepared to exchange data in a way that is fast, swift and not a process that takes months. if i look at the cases of conflict of interest that we are currently experiencing, how we have been working for a year and a half, sometimes two years, three years, four years, five years, six years to get data, that we still have no information about the company agrofert after a year and a half, what the company agrofert with 230 daughters actually got; i am glad that it is only in this multiannual financial framework - and i consider this a great success - that we are able to register the beneficial owners for the first time, or that they have to be registered, so that we can find out who is really behind the companies. agrofert is a wonderful example of how, when one has 230 companies, it is much easier to deceive and disguise oneself because one cannot identify the economic interests behind them. it is not only a problem of politics, but also, and above all, of organized crime. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, i would like to thank you for your support and for the new initiatives and for your willingness to exchange with us so openly. i would like to thank the members for their support and i hope that this programme will send a small signal, even if it is a small programme.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, in particular the rapporteurs, i’m delighted to debate the final step towards the adoption of the union anti-fraud programme regulation. this regulation sets the framework for the financial and technical support of the union to the member states and partners for preventing and tackling irregularities and fraudulent activities in the years to come. we ultimately had very fruitful negotiations on this legislative proposal. all three institutions showed commitment to resolve the diverging views and find political agreement, and i have to stress – and i like to stress this – in one single dialogue in december 2020. the anti-fraud programme is the only union programme dedicated to directly protecting the union budget. considering the pandemic and the unprecedented funds that are being mobilised to help our union recover, it was crucial to finalise the negotiations swiftly. the anti-fraud programme can now be implemented as soon as possible. i would like to thank the european parliament and the council for the work on this initiative. i would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, ms hohlmeier – but she rightly mentioned also tamás deutsch – for their commitment to bringing the negotiations to a successful outcome. thank you also to the co-rapporteurs for their engagement. the programme will finance the various actions of member state and partner authorities to protect the union budget. the programme combines financial support to national authorities with the financing of two eu-level operational programmes – the irregularities management system and the anti-fraud information system. we ensure continuity in supporting the member states in their efforts to protect the union budget under the predecessor programme, the famous hercule iii, and financing new actions. at the same time, the new elements will reflect important adaptations to the new institutional framework and the arrival of the european public prosecutor’s office. we also help member states to prepare to fight new trends and patterns of fraud. the anti-fraud programme ensures not only cooperation between the union and the member states but also with authorities from participating third countries, reinforcing the preventive aspect of the programme and its actions. i wholeheartedly welcome the adoption of the regulation. it will shape long-term union anti-fraud actions and, indeed, will protect taxpayers’ money.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the money of european taxpayers must be put to good use. it cannot be spent, it must be invested and well invested. prevention is the answer. it is a matter of simple regulations, of cutting red tape, and the member states have a key role to play here. for example, with regard to the next generation eu, the national recovery and resilience plans and the multiannual financial framework, the partnership agreements, it is essential that there is articulation, complementarity, that there is no overlap. clarity is an essential word. in addition, projects, we must know where they are located, who are the final beneficiaries. in this way we can measure what territorial cohesion is, but also who the final beneficiaries are, in terms of european funds. and here i find it incomprehensible, unacceptable, that the council, the member states, have not accepted something very simple: a digital platform at european level where, as regards projects financed by the recovery and resilience mechanism, if only we knew who the final beneficiaries of this fund are. it is unacceptable that the council has not accepted something that is simple, namely to know not only where the money is going but also who are the beneficiaries of those funds. fortunately, the european commission and parliament have made a statement in this area with this objective. i would like to conclude by thanking monika hohlmeier for her work, and also for the commission's efforts, and i now hope that there will be more coordination in this programme, in this programme and with this programme, so that we can avoid fraud and evasion, so that we can avoid fraud in this area. transparency is an essential condition for us to have the confidence of the european citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all, i want to start by thanking the rapporteur and our shadow fellows for working very hard on this programme. preventing and combating fraud and corruption is essential, especially in the light of the introduction of a european budget for a new generation. the rule of law is pivotal for our union and especially for our political family. the new eu anti-fraud programme, unfortunately, is one of the smallest eu programmes, and despite the efforts of parliament to increase the budget to eur 321 million during the mff negotiations, it had to come back to the initial commission proposal of 181 million. however, despite that, we have still managed to enhance previously funded activities such as financing equipment to combat fraud and further support the operational and investigative activities within the member states. together with my colleagues from this parliament, and from the previous one, we have succeeded in including in this regulation quite significant and important provisions that increase the transparency of the programmes and the funding, clarify the protection of financial interest in the projects and ensure synergies between the different findings. we have also highlighted the member states’ role and responsibility in that matter. thanks once more for the collaborative work, and we hope that the programme will continue to be as successful and important as it is now.
member of the commission. – mr president, it’s my pleasure to be here today. this debate could not come at a better time. a little more than a month ago, the commission presented europe’s digital decade – a vision, targets and avenues for a successful digital transformation of europe by 2030 in a direction that benefits all our citizens and businesses. it sets the course towards a digitally—empowered europe by 2030 and provides for a digital compass to guide us there. the ambition is to pursue digital policies that empower people and businesses to seize a human—centred, sustainable and more prosperous digital future. this required setting the right regulatory framework for the digital space, and we are working closely with the parliament on this, but also accelerating investments in our digital capabilities. the digital europe programme will be one of the core eu instruments to achieve the digital decade. let me underline that it will be the first ever eu programme entirely dedicated to digital. here i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr flego, and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), as well as the shadow rapporteurs and all the associated committees. your support in the negotiations and swift political agreement on digital europe shows that we are all working together on shaping and supporting the digital transformation of europe’s society and economy. the covid crisis has demonstrated how crucial digital technologies and skills are for all of us to work, to study and to do business across our single market. the pandemic has also exposed europe’s vulnerabilities and where we need to get better. it has only accentuated the need for a programme such as digital europe that will enable us today to deploy digital capacities and strengthen our resilience. it will fill the deployment gap in digital technologies to make sure that the fruits of research and innovation investment get successfully deployed throughout europe and benefit all our businesses, notably smes. digital europe will provide funding for projects in five crucial areas: supercomputing, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, advanced digital skills and ensuring the wide use of digital technologies across the economy and society. these investments will support the union’s twin objectives of a green transition and digital transformation and strengthen the union’s resilience. the digital europe programme is thus one of the key tools to make sure that the digital transition will propel the recovery. with the new eu budget and with the recovery and resilience facility and its 20% target for digital, we have mobilised unprecedented resources to invest in digital transition. this marks a key opportunity for europe to strengthen its digital capacities and deliver the digital decade targets by 2030. we know we now have our digital compass and resources to get us there.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, this debate brings to an end the legislative process for the creation of the first european digital programme. we are now fully immersed in a data economy and there is a lot at stake. we need to greatly improve our digital infrastructure. we must say that in this field we are lagging behind the united states and china. recently, steps have been taken to overcome these shortcomings, for example, the gaia-x programme, to develop a digital infrastructure for the cloud. it is a project that is also paving the way towards a european cloud, which is precisely the objective of the newly created european alliance on industrial data and cloud. the digital europe programme, with a budget of €7.5 billion, will strengthen these digital capacities by acquiring state-of-the-art supercomputers that the european union does not currently have, but will also invest in strategic projects related to artificial intelligence, cybersecurity and advanced digital skills. in short, the first european digital programme will benefit all sectors of our economy, but also research, universities and countless other sectors. i would like to make a special mention of smes, because they will be able to rely on the digital infrastructure, on the supercomputers that allow them to process data, through which they can optimise technologies that are so important, such as artificial intelligence.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the adoption of the digital europe programme is important because of the investment volume of eur 7.6 billion and its scientific and technological priorities, but also because it is imbued with the common values of the european union and a benchmark ethical commitment that will make it possible to affirm the geopolitical relevance of the union in the second wave of digitalisation, contributing to making it democratic, green and inclusive. unfortunately, the programme, which covers such important areas as high-performance computing, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, the transformation of public administrations, interoperability, digital skills, has seen its financial envelope reduced in the face of the proposals of the european commission and the european parliament. however, parliament has managed to strengthen the delivery model through decentralised and networked investments, with flexible governance, and this enhances its articulation with national recovery and resilience programmes, thus making the digital bet more robust at the various levels at which it will have to be made, contributing to digital inclusion and territorial cohesion. the programme thus fully assumes the commitments to the ecological pact and to biodiversity and defines a case-by-case decision matrix for international cooperation in a logic of reciprocity and alignment of scientific and technological activities and an ethical approach. as the s&d group's shadow rapporteur, i welcome the work done, the results achieved and i call for continued joint work to unlock the full potential of this important programme.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a digital europe is at the heart of the transformation that the european union has set itself to achieve. how to make europe more digital and greener at the same time is the challenge of our generation. the digital europe programme will provide strategic funding to address these challenges in key areas: supercomputing, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, advanced digital skills and ensuring the widespread use of digital technologies across the economy and society. geopolitically, if we can transform today, we will have an advantage in the international markets tomorrow. digitalization and new technologies will change our lives and provide solutions to many of the challenges we face. for example, our ability to collect, store and process data through ai algorithms will increase efficiency and productivity and strengthen the overall competitiveness of the european union. the digital europe programme is the first financial instrument of the european union focused on bringing digital technology to citizens, industry and public administrations in the member states, and this will contribute to the digital transformation of the union. to this end, in the european parliament we have ensured that digital europe will be synergistic and complementary with the instruments of the new mff, such as the connecting europe facility, with horizon europe, and that it will receive adequate funding. with a budget of eur 7.5 billion and with synergies with other financial instruments, it will accelerate economic recovery and digitise europe's society and economy, to the benefit of all.
mr president, today we vote on a pan—european digital programme. and one of the illustrations of how far we are already on track with this programme is, unfortunately, the doubling of cybercrime in 2019. ransomware attacks have gone up 300% in the year after, in 2020. and i think we all know the metrics for 2021. it might get worse before it gets better. but it will get better, because we are currently drafting good new legislation. yet here in europe, we spend 41% less on cybersecurity than in the united states, and yet there is still no pan—european cybersecurity infrastructure. the good news of today is that we also vote for eur 1.6 billion on cybersecurity, and i commend that. we are talking about trans—european networks in real networks: on energy networks, on water, and even connecting our digital networks through gaia—x. how about laying down a cybersecurity network for europe? is it not time? i believe so. for coordinated vulnerability disclosure: yes. for incident reporting: yes. for cyber threat intelligence sharing: yes, that’s what we need. we need to prevent our citizens and entities from these things occurring before they happen. now, the future is indeed digital, but we must also make sure that it is secure. therefore, i thank the commission and all the institutions for agreeing on this great package.
mr. chairman, please! the innovation economy requires not only huge data sets, but also huge investments in research and development, digital infrastructure, cybersecurity and advanced education. the commission should also be able to provide the member states with the necessary information to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. without the support of european funds, many innovative projects in these areas could not be implemented. the experience of recent months shows that digitisation in healthcare is helping to save lives. innovations such as e-prescriptions and an online registration system for vaccinations have been important in poland in the fight against the epidemic. we need more of these modern solutions in all areas of our lives. the digital europe programme will allow them to be finalised.
mr president, the digital transformation is affecting all areas of our lives. it's penetrating all sectors of the economy and providing most of the communications during the pandemic. europe needs to increase its investment in digital technologies if we are to remain competitive and maintain its leadership in digitalisation. the successful digital transformation is certainly a prerequisite for the successful economic recovery of europe. we need not only to improve the digital infrastructure, but also to invest more in digital skills and to ensure a clear and stable legal framework. we use new digital technologies every day. even if we don't realize it, they may sometimes pose a threat, but mostly an opportunity. the proposed balanced and systematic regulation may involve investments with a very rapid return. new technologies hold great potential for economic growth, creating millions of new jobs, saving lives in healthcare, but also simplifying our way of life. i appreciate the emphasis in the digital europe programme on the importance of training the next generation and retraining the current workforce. investment in research and innovation in cybersecurity and artificial intelligence are key areas to work on. but i want to emphasize that when we talk about new technologies, we should always keep in mind the fact that the human being must remain at the center of new technologies and always make the final decision.
mr president, the digital europe programme has an overall budget of eur 7.5 billion and it will definitely lay down the foundation for europe’s business, societal and industrial transformation. digital technologies innovation and artificial intelligence will provide eu citizens with competitive jobs, better health and better public services. technological progress would definitely help us achieve our climate—neutral, green, fair and social goals. the planned investment in supercomputing, ai, cybersecurity and advanced digital skills will expand europe’s global competitiveness, and this will bring us closer towards the so—wanted digital independence. europe has the capacity to be the global leader in that – a technological leadership where innovation advancement, fair and green economic growth, social inclusion and business competitiveness are inseparable.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, this proposal has been a long time in the making, but the end result is extremely good. thank you to colleague thurwalds. it was important that the union's high climate ambitions were supported by sufficient instruments to effectively achieve the desired green transition. the life programme remains a key, effective and efficient financial instrument supporting the union's objectives of being a leader in sustainable economic growth and employment. the increased budget of the programme will help to strengthen our efforts in this direction. this programme is particularly important for countries at the beginning of the green transition, such as bulgaria, because it provides them with the necessary opportunities for innovation in environmental protection, biodiversity and, now, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. today, we are taking another step towards a cleaner, circular economy with care for people and nature.
madam president, i’m glad that both reports recognise the need to achieve highly energy-efficient, climate-neutral and renewable—based energy systems. the transport sector can be a significant facilitator of renewable energy deployment if we provide the right policy, sustainable investment criteria and financial tools. we need a favourable policy framework and ambitious targets based on the principle of technology neutrality on our way towards the decarbonisation of all passenger and freight transport modes. we also need to adapt the electrification networks and infrastructure for alternative fuels, for european vehicle fleets and support other solutions. priority should be given to building a renewable hydrogen supply chain in europe and accelerating the decarbonisation of existing hydrogen production. and last but not least, i also believe that the role of power-to-x solutions will allow us to use climate—friendly based materials in fuels for air transport, heavy goods transport and maritime sectors as underlined in this report.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, allow me to begin by thanking all my colleagues who have worked with me on this report. i believe that we have reached a good compromise, and not as an end in itself, but as a means, as a path to the best solution, the best recommendation that parliament can make to the commission and to the other european institutions. i believe we have achieved a very important goal - to see free labour mobility, the freedom to work and to provide services not as a problem for europe, but as an opportunity and, much more importantly, as a right of the individual, of the individual european. for more than 15 years since the first eastern enlargement in 2004, labour mobility has all too often been seen as a problem, as a cause of conflict between east and west, between rich and poor, between employers and trade unions, very often between powerful business interests linked to power in individual national member states. and here the question arises: why has civil rights become a problem? why has our power and our freedom become a cause of conflict? i'm going to give you an unusual answer. because we have forgotten the fundamental roman maxim that underlies our constitutional democracy, that the law is the weapon of the weak, that our legislative and political activity should not and cannot reflect the pre-election interests of cunning populists, nor the interests of big business close to power in individual member states, nor even the interests of the big unions at the national level. on the contrary, the policy of labour mobility must always be based on the interests of the weak, the little one, those who have difficulty finding a place in the labour market, those who are desperate to find opportunities and opportunities, those who are looking for a dignified way to provide for their family's livelihood, development and future. we are a market of half a billion consumers, and the wealthiest consumers in the world. we are a market of millions of companies, which should be the freest, most dynamic. firms that are not under political pressure, firms that exist in a community of rule of law, where the law is the same for everyone. this market can and should provide jobs for everyone. there is no place for the rejected, the permanently unemployed. but there can be no room for working poor, for working in undignified, unhealthy or dangerous conditions. the aim of this report is to focus the legislator's attention not on the interests and conflicts of the big ones, but on the rights of the small ones. to ensure that the worker is protected from both unscrupulous employers and heartless bureaucrats, that the freelancer, the small business are protected from unfair competition but also from unnecessary administrative barriers. and you know, in the course of this report, we've seen that it's not that difficult, that it doesn't require endless new regulations and restrictions, but strict adherence to existing rules. but above all, the uniform observance and application of these rules by all european countries. that what matters is not the creation of new institutions, but the serious commitment of those we already have to use the powers that the treaties already give them. because the treaty on the functioning of the european union gives a shared responsibility for the conduct of social policy, a responsibility that our common institutions do not like to use. we can talk for a long time about the lessons we learned during the pandemic, and i'm sure many of my colleagues in this debate will recall them. i will focus on just one lesson, a new lesson in solidarity - the lesson that the problem of the weak easily becomes the problem of the strong, that the helplessness of low-skilled seasonal workers to cope with the administrative chaos of different rules in different countries has affected the prices of food for all of us, that the violation of basic rules for healthy working and living conditions of low-paid mobile workers has become a health disaster for entire cities and entire regions. my conclusion from this lesson is that the most important right in the labour market in the 21st century has been the right to information, the right to easily accessible and clear information about conditions, rights and especially about their transferability in different member states. and this should be the first task of the european labour authority to use the power of modern technology to serve the weak in the labour market. ladies and gentlemen, whether we like it or not, and whether our voters like it or not, the labour market will become more flexible, more dynamic, and work and the provision of services will become increasingly mobile, at least within the single market. my view is that this is a good thing, that it will give more europeans a chance to develop, to learn, to overcome language, educational and cultural barriers. our job is to protect them from abuse, from the violation of their social rights, from unfair competition, from bureaucratic arbitrariness. and i believe that in this way we can in this report only lay the foundations of a policy to achieve the key objective of the porto summit: a continent free of permanent unemployment and poverty, a single market based on a social market economy that gives everyone a chance. a new reading of prosperity for everyone. wohlstand für alle the concept that created and developed the successful european model.
the report on the impact of eu rules on the free movement of workers and services aims to overcome the limitations. the right to free movement is a fundamental right of every citizen and i believe that non-discriminatory conditions should be ensured for all european workers, whether they work outside their home country for a shorter or longer period. mobility promotes economic and social cohesion and provides businesses and consumers with a wider choice of development opportunities. it should always be the fruit of the individual's decisions, not of coercion. in this context, i would like to point out that the right to free movement can only have positive consequences for national policies and cannot be regarded as the main cause of the so-called brain drain process. to prevent this, each country should strive to provide decent living conditions and competitive working conditions.
madam president, with great sadness i am seeing many civilians being killed in israel and gaza. civilians in israel are being exposed to indiscriminate firing of rockets by hamas and other terrorist groups. israel has the right to self—defence in accordance with international law. also, war crimes should be called war crimes. the worst war crime is the use of a human shield in order to gain public support. at this moment, we need de—escalation of the conflict. we need involvement of those who can mediate in this terrible dispute. the spilling of blood calls, unfortunately, for more blood. we need courageous diplomacy to open channels for dialogue and end the conflict. i strongly condemn the anti—semitic behaviour that we are also witnessing along with this conflict on european soil. in this terrible time of the pandemic when the disease is taking more human victims than any war, perpetrators of this conflict are just adding more sorrow to our daily tragedies. while some people are investing in vaccines, others invest in rockets. history will be the judge and ask, where were those peacemakers and visionaries that we need now?
madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the israelis and palestinians are experiencing a new serious wave of violence in the middle east. i urge an immediate end to all violence by all parties to the conflict. it also insists on full humanitarian access. the fight must stop. innocent israelis and palestinians, children and civilians have the right to peace and security in their country. the latest developments make it very clear that the crisis in gaza requires a broader approach and a political solution. there will be no peace without strong political commitment on both sides. the european union's position must be clear and firm in this respect. we must support both the israelis and the palestinians in order to produce together a solid basis for direct negotiations, to achieve a lasting solution based on the principle of the two-state solution.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the fact that montenegro is the closest western balkan country to eu membership is enough to discredit the whole enlargement process, since in recent times it has been the one through which the scandal has occurred, whether in the light of the renewal until 2021 of its citizenship-for-investment programme, in defiance of the risks of transparency, or the damocles's oath embodied by the chinese motorway project backed by a loan of some €800 million. this project, on which i had expressed my fears as early as february, is symptomatic of the country's double narrative, both in terms of international allegiance - it is part of the famous new silk road promoted by china - and in environmental matters, because of the probably irreversible damage affecting the tara river. moreover, the request by the montenegrin government for european aid in the face of largely foreseeable financial difficulties is destroying the country's credibility in accession negotiations, which unfortunately no longer have a place.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i think it is fair to say that after 30 years of one-party rule, this country has made a peaceful transition to a new government. and at the same time it is also up to us to persuade mr ðukanović's dps party to live a lived cohabitation for the good of the country and to support the necessary legislative measures. there were concerns at the beginning when this new government took office. but there is still a 100% agreement with the european union's foreign and security policy. and there remains a clear commitment to the country's pro-eu accession course. the commission is also taking ambitious steps to enforce the rule of law, where much remains to be done. high-ranking mafia bosses have been arrested, and there is a high price to pay. i pay tribute to vice-president dritan abazović, who has been living under police protection since the arrests took place here, and is threatened with death - we must also acknowledge this. there are positive developments in the field of environmental protection. and there's a big problem: the last government took on a huge debt to build a very expensive highway, to have chinese workers build it, financed by chinese money. and i call on us to see how we can achieve a rescheduling so that we do not hand over montenegro to china here. finally, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr picula, for his good and constructive cooperation.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr commissioner, mr minister, i have to go. we all appreciate the progress montenegro has made towards democratizing the state and this peaceful change of power, which my colleague spoke of earlier, has shown that montenegrins are a democratic society committed to the values we all share in this parliament. it is also worth appreciating montenegro's position on the international stage. member of the security council of the russian federation since 1 january 2014. all this with very aggressive attempts at outside interference, mainly from russia. of course, there is still a lot to do. but i think maybe sometimes we set the bar too high. it is necessary to separate the assessment of montenegro's implementation of these most basic criteria of a democratic state of law, which i have mentioned, from the ideological demands of the liberal-left, which mainly concern worldview issues. let us remember that even among the member states there is no such thing as a flawless democracy that can be uncritically held up as a model for others. so it's not the ideal, but the democratic reality that should guide us.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the case of the motorway linking bar to boljare, financed by loans contracted with china and which risks bringing part of the montenegrin territory under beijing's control, is symptomatic of how quickly the integration process can take on a life of its own. despite warnings from the eib, the ebrd and the entire union, the political class that previously ruled montenegro decided to venture down this risky and dangerous path. today montenegro and a renewed ruling class are asking us for help to get out of a situation which is objectively dramatic, created by the political myopia and the pursuit of personal gain by their predecessors. while we strongly criticize the decision taken in the past, which is harmful both for the eu and for the country, we cannot allow the incredible efforts of the last few years to pass into the background, we cannot allow the sins of the fathers to fall on the children. as with the other countries of the western balkans, montenegro shares with us not only the past but also the future of europe. we must therefore act decisively to avoid the risk that a future member state, because of captive borrowing, becomes an outpost of a third power in the heart of europe.
madam president, as tonino picula and other speakers have already pointed out, montenegro is currently the most advanced country in an eu accession process. however, as we have also heard, further reforms as regards the rule of law, the judiciary, media freedom and the fight against corruption remain essential. the elections on 30 august last year resulted in the first transition of power since the introduction of the multiparty system in this country. just 2 months ago in the foreign affairs committee we have discussed the first 100 days of a new government with the new deputy prime minister of montenegro, mr dritan abazović. i welcome his clear commitment and pledge to keep a pro-eu and a pro-nato course. this should be the position of all parties in the government. our priority and what will be key now is to deepen and to speed up reforms, particularly with regard to the rule of law, where the next milestone ahead is meeting the benchmarks under the rule of law and fundamental freedoms chapters 23 and 24. to overcome the socio-economic crisis due to the pandemic, which has hit montenegro particularly hard, the eu is ready to continue its support because, as commissioner olivér várhelyi said, we care about our partners. (applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am firmly convinced that we must all congratulate montenegro on the progress it has made in several key areas of the accession negotiations and on its efforts to eradicate organised crime and corruption. however, we must mention the fact that additional steps must be taken to guarantee freedom of expression and freedom of the media in montenegro. we must send a clear message: the european union denounces and condemns all forms of attacks on the media and all forms of attacks on journalists. there is still work to be done in the reform of the legal system, the rule of law and the judiciary. our montenegrin partners can draw on the best practices of the european union.
mr president, creative europe for the period 2021-2027 is, in my view, extremely late. we've been negotiating this far, and artists have suffered tremendously during this period. i'm glad that there's some result so we can support the cultural sector. we've managed to simplify the application process, thank god. but we cannot talk about real progress as long as bureaucracy continues to outweigh the cultural value of projects. it is highly irregular to first assess the technological feasibility of documents and only then to assess the actual artistic value. the process is reversed. he is completely devoid of creative logic. this will be extremely bad for all young artists, those who have no experience. and eventually the big players will take it. but there are still many serious problems with the new program. i'm sorry i've been talking for so long. not only is the big budget not enough, as they say it is big, but it is small. i'm totally against it, and excuse me just to finish, but it's very important: there are no genders in art, there are talented people, in case you didn't know that.
the commission's vice-president mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this impressive work and for this timely report. the pandemic has only confirmed the importance of work on the digital priority, including artificial intelligence; but the pandemic is not over, and i am confident that the drive towards digitisation will continue. europe is in a unique position to develop and use advanced digital technologies, such as artificial intelligence, big data and the internet of things, in an ambitious, innovative and sustainable way. the widespread integration of these digital technologies is essential for europe's economic recovery. our duty as european policymakers is to facilitate and help speed up this process. this requires removing barriers to the digital single market, empowering people to use a new generation of technologies to serve them, and addressing the strategic weaknesses in our digital infrastructures. we in the commission are determined to make the 2020s the digital decade of europe. we want to pursue digital policies that empower people and businesses and lead to a sustainable and prosperous digital future. this european digital decade must be based on four key elements: talent, infrastructure, business transformation and the digitalisation of public administrations. for each of these four areas, we also propose clear quantified targets to be achieved by 2030, as well as concrete actions, including for smes and start-ups. after listening to stakeholders, the commission will propose a digital policy agenda and a solemn declaration of digital principles. we are of course counting on the support and commitment of this house to achieve this ambition. to foster digital transformation, the commission has already proposed important legislative initiatives that are on your table, such as digital services legislation, digital market legislation, a new european cybersecurity strategy and the data governance act. it also noted that artificial intelligence can make a strategic and crucial contribution to these objectives. the key to unlocking the benefits of all this data will be processing it through ai systems that we will be proposing in a new legislative initiative, the data act, later this year. again, i see that we share essentially the same concerns. your report also stresses that we must find a way to protect european values, security, fundamental rights and our european way of life, but without jeopardising our innovation potential. you also repeatedly stress the importance of taking into account the needs of smes. the deployment of ai by large companies alone would effectively deprive us in europe of most of the benefits of these technologies. the package on artificial intelligence that we have just proposed on 21 april reflects exactly this two-pronged approach, which is to develop the potential of artificial intelligence while tackling the problems that these technologies can cause. the proposed ai regulation is designed to give all europeans confidence in an anthropocentric management of artificial intelligence. proportionate and flexible rules are proposed to address the specific risks posed by ims in certain contexts. we also envisage a technology-neutral and evolving definition of ai, as it may also cover techniques and approaches that are not yet known or developed. it also prohibits the use of particularly risky ai technologies, such as social scoring. it is also based on a risk-based approach, focusing on high-risk use cases of artificial intelligence. only these cases must meet a set of requirements specifically designed to enhance transparency and minimise risks to security and our fundamental rights. the coordinated plan published together with the proposal for a regulation describes the policies and investments needed at european level to establish european preeminence in this field. we aim to encourage investment by member states and stimulate private investment, with the aim of gradually bringing total public and private investment in artificial intelligence to €20 billion per year by the end of the decade. the commission will invest around €1 billion per year in this area, in the context of the 'horizon europe' and 'digital europe' programmes for the next seven-year budget period, but not including the cohesion policy programme investments, which will be added to this amount. these investments are intended to support research, innovation, testing, experimentation, skills development and the use of ai for smes. europe has research excellence, a vibrant robotics community and high-performing industrial sectors. together they contribute to european excellence in artificial intelligence and help us to reap the benefits these technologies bring to us. finally, we have included measures on artificial intelligence in the field of health and on the development of green intelligence. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by stressing the constructive role that this parliament has played, and will continue to play, in advancing this ambitious european programme. let me also conclude by thanking you again for your impressive work and by emphasizing once again how convergent and compatible our approaches are.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr chairman, the deployment of artificial intelligence has obvious benefits, but also a number of challenges. artificial intelligence is not another technological revolution, but a mephistophelian temptation, a hostage to which our very existence as a species and a human society will be held in the future. the economic prospects and competitive pressures are therefore not a sufficient argument for the rapid introduction of new technologies. the huge gap between our human awareness, on the one hand, and the great technological capabilities that we already have, on the other, is fraught with risks. they require real thinking not only of business and consumer interests, not only of economists and scientists with a technical profile, but also of humanitarians. automation will lead to the loss of a large number of jobs. digitalization is creating a new kind of discrimination. the success of ai requires adequate education, guaranteed protection of personal data and, above all, a set of strict ethical principles that protect people and the biosphere.
mr president, the european union is currently undergoing a major digitisation process, and it should be, because the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated digitisation all over the world. if we want to be competitive in the future, europe must now invest in three areas in particular: firstly, research and development. as the report states, member states should invest at least 3% of their gross domestic product in research and development. we're way behind on this one. in the recovery package, i expect member states to invest in this now. secondly, we need a fast, modern digital infrastructure. we are aiming to have gigabit data and 5g throughout europe. there's still a lot to do. the third very important issue is human competence. up to a third of the european workforce lacks digital skills, and 70% of companies consider this to be a barrier to investment in europe. this is a very serious situation. these three themes are therefore areas in which we must invest heavily now to remain competitive. and of course we have to make sure that all legislation encourages new innovation and investment in europe. in particular, when it comes to artificial intelligence, it is important to ensure that the rules that are otherwise valid in society also apply in the digital world, whether it is artificial intelligence or e-commerce. different systems should not be regulated differently.
mr president, ai has the potential of transforming how the consumer market in the economy operates. the benefits for both consumer and business are numerous, but the concerns still remain. in europe, if we manage to succeed in developing and integrating ai into the workflow, we could increase productivity by 20% and add eur 2.7 trillion to the european economy by 2030. however, transparency, data security and reliability still raise concerns. it is critical that the consumers have clear rights that protect them and enable them to benefit from the social digital transformation. the use of ai should not be focused only on reaching competitiveness but it should be focused also at improving european citizens’ welfare, reaching the objectives of the green deal and sharing technological advancement and ensuring green economic development that grants the goals of social inclusion. europe needs a consumer-driven ai that guarantees that no one is left behind.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, this is indeed an extremely important issue, an extremely important debate the link between a rapid and effective recovery from the coronavirus crisis and effective justice. i fully agree with the rapporteur that the modernisation of our economies is impossible without a secure legal order that ensures the protection of property, the protection of investments, the guarantees for the performance of contracts. the recovery and resilience plans involve huge investments. perhaps more importantly, they allow for the development of the private sector, for the development of financial markets and free enterprise. but without legal certainty, public investment is inefficient and private investors are fleeing the market. they do not take the risks, they do not invest in the innovation that the european economy needs at the moment. to successfully rebuild and modernise, to build a modern green economy, you need a sound justice system. as this report notes, there is a need for swift and effective civil justice. i would just add that above all it is necessary and honest and uncorrupt, independent of corporate and political pressure and influence justice. the effort to enforce the rule of law is perhaps the most important part of our recovery from this crisis.
mr commissioner, in the summer of 2019, the personal data of 5 million european union citizens was leaked, following a cyber attack on the national revenue agency of the republic of bulgaria. this is one of the largest attacks on a government agency within the european union. this clearly demonstrates the need to build and strengthen technological capacity. skills, resilience and reliability of member states' infrastructure and network information systems are required. the proposed regulation aims to help the european union maintain and develop the necessary technological and industrial capacity for cybersecurity. the establishment of a european cybersecurity industrial technology and research competence centre and a network of national coordination centres is an important step towards the security of the union, especially in the context of the digital transformation of which we are all a part. i call on all member states to actively participate in the work of the centre and to take their responsibility to ensure the security of european union citizens, both online and offline.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are undoubtedly the engines of the eu economy. they are key because they create so many jobs, especially during a pandemic, when thousands of people lose their jobs. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. many of them, unfortunately, suffer from a lack of liquidity, which leads to an increase in the number of bankruptcies. the european sme strategy should be based on creating conditions for innovation and investment and stimulating entrepreneurship. it should identify specific opportunities for access to adequate funding and ensure that they are informed in a timely manner. i also believe that the administrative burden on smes should be reduced. they should be using their time to develop, not burdening themselves with extra bureaucracy. the sme strategy is key to our goal of a digital europe. so i am happy to support the creation of skills training opportunities and lifelong learning for workers. support for smes is necessary and vital for a successful green transition. we need to show them that we understand them and we work for them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr cesar luena, for his excellent work. since 1970, we have seen a 60 percent decline in the population of various vertebrates. we're living in the middle of what's called the sixth mass extinction. i want to see a society where we humans make progress through innovation, not through the disrespectful and unsustainable exploitation of our animals and our nature. when we don't respect our ecosystems and when we don't take biodiversity seriously, it backfires on humanity. our ecosystems are the basis for all life - for food, for water, for our wood. it captures carbon dioxide, protects us from flooding and gives tourism a boost. some experts believe that a preventive approach to biodiversity could have averted the pandemic. ecosystems are closely interconnected and, as we know, have no national boundaries. that is why we must work together within the eu on this. a deterioration in one country should not necessarily affect biodiversity or the situation in other member states. everyone has to take responsibility. we're going to protect our nature in a way that respects those who already use the forest sustainably, of course. the biodiversity strategy is an important part of the green agenda. it raises ambition to protect the forests and seas that have the highest natural values, our beautiful primeval forests and our open landscapes. the strategy deals a major blow to organic farming, with the aim of reducing the use of environmentally harmful pesticides. by supporting the report, we are protecting endangered species and ensuring that three billion new trees are planted in the eu. for the sake of the animals, for the sake of the children and for our own sake, i therefore support the biodiversity strategy.
mr president, we know that biodiversity and nature are disappearing before our eyes. and for too many years, we've kept looking the other way. today, with the vote on the european biodiversity strategy, we have the opportunity to show that we are finally taking this crisis seriously. seriously, this means setting ourselves concrete and unprecedented targets: 25% organic in agriculture in 2030, minus 50% pesticides in the next decade. but there are also concrete levers: 30% of europe's territory on land and at sea protected. it also means changing the rules of the game to stop allowing pesticides that directly kill bees. these are all concrete examples of the new tools and objectives that this strategy contains. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that many of us will be supporting this new strategy, these new objectives, these new european policies, to show that we are taking the disappearance of nature seriously.
the urge to make some sort of overcompensation seems to be a basic human trait. the way in which this strategy recklessly implements measures so-called for the good of people and nature is very similar to the way in which the communists once over-performed their five-year plans. it'll be the same result. ladies and gentlemen, in your quest to show how much you care about nature, you're going to extremes that will only do you harm. the prohibition of any activity forestry, hunting or fishing in the natura 2000 territories is more than absurd. it seems strange to me how your politics goes full circle and goes back to the interesting old phrase "when one person has a problem, it's a tragedy, but when there are a million, it's a statistic". i think you know what that phrase is. in many countries, natura 2000 covers 10-15% of the territory, and in bulgaria it is 35%. do you have any idea how useful the activities are in this area and did anyone go to natura 2000 when they made this plan? first, these activities control harmful species, prevent the spread of disease or prevent certain other species from over-breeding. in bulgaria, this measure would affect hundreds of thousands of people, and in europe, millions. i want to tell you that small and medium businesses in these areas will be virtually totally destroyed. that's how these people make a living. there's no industry there. if they are denied this right, they will leave the depopulated areas anyway. i have 30 seconds left, excuse me, because i'm speaking for pietro piocci, i have 30 seconds left.
madam president, the most recent act by mr lukashenko is not just another bold provocation. hijacking an eu civilian aircraft is an act of state terrorism. while there is no comparison, dare i say that, after the events of 11 september 2001, this is the most serious attack on civil aviation in the history of civil aviation. this is a terrorist attack that was led, commanded and executed by a state. and this is in parallel with the repression and oppression of the belarusian people, including torture, being made political prisoners and disappearances. if the european union doesn’t adopt a very, very strong and hard stance against this behaviour, we will no longer be credible.
madam president, the hijack of an eu plane flying between two eu capitals to kidnap a journalist who has been granted asylum in the european union shows that the situation in belarus is going from very bad to even worse. the non-legitimate regime continues its repression against its people and bluntly threatens our aviation transport and overall security. we must give better protection to all of the belarusian citizens that are exiled and seeking asylum. we must unite our action with like-minded partners and exert political pressure for all of the political prisoners to be released. however, the biggest impact we can achieve is with substantial economic sanctions that would target all of the enablers of this regime immediately. today, i join the calls for the eu to lead the organisation of the international conference on belarus. eur 3 billion for democracy is a good start. now we need geopolitical actions.
president. - we have already seen a lot of the so-called last dictator of europe, but the hijacking of a european plane to arrest a critical voice is an act of war and cannot allow europe to go its own way. i have just participated with my colleagues in an action of solidarity to express our support for the belarusian people and we expressly call for the immediate release of roman protasevic and sofia sapega and all other political prisoners. but colleagues, the only way to bring lukashenko to his knees is to isolate him and show that he has made himself an international pariah. so confiscate all foreign assets and impose additional sanctions on lukashenko and the thugs around him. no belarusian plane should be allowed to land in the west. set up a global conference for the future of a democratic belarus and urge, mr borrell, the release of all political prisoners. you have our support. go for it.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. it is unacceptable that a scheduled passenger aircraft is forced to land without any justification by the belarusian authorities. i can't imagine how passengers on a flight between the two eu capitals must have felt when they saw fighter jets from the window of their plane. everything must be done to ensure that the forced entry of more than 100 passengers into the airport does not happen again. in this respect, the eu has taken swift and decisive action in response, and i hope that this will make sense, that it will be followed up and that we will be able to react more decisively and more quickly. the arrest and detention of journalist raman prataszevics and his fiancée, sofija sapega, following his forced landing in minsk, is unacceptable. the belarusian authorities must immediately release them, as they must all political prisoners.
madam president, dear colleagues, alexander lukashenko is a despot who has imprisoned the entire nation, much like the soviet union, which he continues to revere. show trials, mass arrest, rape and torture, now even state terrorism: lukashenko will stop at nothing. let me just mention my good friend, paval sieviaryniec, the co-chair of the belarusian christian democrats, who has already spent 10 years in prison at lukashenko’s penal colonies and now has been sentenced to another seven years, all because he believes in a free and sovereign belarus. dear colleagues, it is time for us to face the reality. targeting sanctions only are not sufficient to stop lukashenko. it is time for sectoral economic sanctions, conditional on the release of all political prisoners and the end of all the repressions. zhyve belarus!
madam president, my colleagues! the belarusian dictator has been able to commit crimes for a long time because he has created a climate of fear in his country. russia is backing him on all fronts, and the rest of the world is largely indifferent. lukashenko sees the reaction of the rest of the world, including europe, as slow and weak. so he's gone from repressing his own people to forcing a european plane to land to get an opposition figure. good thing it didn't end in a plane crash and 170 deaths. but clearly, a dictator is capable of doing that, too: 450 political prisoners, some of whom are dead, repression and humiliation of his own people. it's a day in belarus. where are the sanctions against the regime in belarus that were agreed in the council of europe and that are actually having an impact? the european union has done too little and too slowly in dealing with the dictator in belarus. what are you waiting for? another plane crash like the downing of a malaysian airliner over eastern ukraine? now, and now, the european union and the member states must act and take real decisions to sanction specific companies and sectors of the economy that also have an impact on the dictator.
dear madam president, dear mr. borrell, there should be even tougher sanctions on the lukashenka regime because his policies are part of the kremlin's strategy to restore russian influence in the countries of the former socialist bloc. the empire wants to be reborn. the aggression against ukraine was proof. through lukashenko, putin wants to keep belarus under his control. the minsk regime is one of the kremlin's weapons in putin's hybrid war against democracy. this war is being carried to other countries. one example: a few months ago in bulgaria, the security services broke up a russian spy network, but instead of being congratulated and even rewarded, the director of the national security agency was fired by the pro-kremlin bulgarian president. i believe that belarus will be a free and democratic country.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, after belarus we go to afghanistan, which is another place where there is not a lot of room for optimism, but even if there is not room for optimism we have to continue being engaged. we have to continue being engaged in a country where a lot of civilian casualties have been happening and 40% of those casualties are women or children. today, the us and nato troops are withdrawing from the country. troops from european member states will also withdraw. the peace process is largely stalled and violence continues. we see an appalling rate of civilian casualties, as i said, 40% of them are women and children, and targeted killing of civil society activists, media workers and public servants. i am afraid this violence might further increase in the near future. the security situation in afghanistan is evolving quickly. the taliban control more than half of the country’s territory and increasingly have less incentive to compromise, so the short-term prospects for a peace deal look bleak. however, the taliban know that a large part of the afghan population does not share their convictions and that ethnic and religious cleavages may come out to the fore in the absence of a negotiated peace settlement. therefore, i wish to underline that the european union will make every effort to support the peace process and remain a committed partner to the afghan people. of course we have to take into account the evolving situation, but this engagement is not an option. it is not an option for many reasons. first, because for over two decades, over the last 20 years, we have invested significant political capital and financial resources to support afghanistan’s stability and development and also we have lost quite an important number of lives of our soldiers. the gains of our assistance have been prominent with regard to human rights and the empowerment of women. i want to stress the importance that during these last 20 years, afghan women have been increasing their rights and getting out of the medieval times in which they were under the taliban regime. but these achievements can be very much jeopardised. these achievements are in danger because afghanistan today is at a crossroads. they are living in critical times and in order to safeguard the achievements of the afghan people during these years, we have to continue being engaged and to provide new perspectives for the afghan citizens when – finally, we hope – an agreement will be obtained under the doha negotiations. second, because our strategic interests are also at stake. independently of the troop withdrawal, political and civilian assistance, disengagement from afghanistan would not serve our interests. a collapse in the democratic order in afghanistan or massive backtracking on human rights – and once again i want to stress the importance of the rights of women – could lead, among others, to a new surge on international terrorism, to further forced displacement and irregular migration – too often in the hands of traffickers – and to the greater magnitude of the illicit trade in narcotics. so there cannot be tolerance for afghanistan becoming a safe haven again for international terrorism. we are currently in intense discussions with our member states, with the us, with nato and the united nations, on the absence of essential security conditions for our continued diplomatic presence. it would be difficult to keep it. we need hospitals and airports if we want to continue being there. these come on top of the pledges of nato partners to continue their support to the afghan national defence forces under the afghan national army trust fund. let’s go back to the peace process. we are clear on that. there is no alternative to a negotiated political settlement through inclusive peace talks. this also means that there can be no sanction relief for members of the taliban at the united nations security council without a genuine commitment on their part to the peace process through a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire and substantial progress in the peace negotiations. i do have to stress our interest in a stable afghanistan with a development perspective being shared by all countries of the region who also need to play a constructive role in this peace process and with whom we will step up our cooperation. which is our main leverage in the current situation? well, this is our continuing political and financial support. it has to be made clear to the afghan government and the taliban that this support is and will continue to be conditional upon the preservation of the country’s human rights and democratic achievements, and this support is not pennies. during the last 20 years it has represented eur 3.5 billion of development assistance. this report has to be conditional – i insist – on the preservation of human rights and democratic achievements, tangible progress in improving governance, in particular anti-corruption, but also on the access of women to education and to the political and social life. the challenges are massive, we know. that’s why we have to continue with our engagement with the afghan people in order to prevent them losing all that they have won in these last 20 years. and i want to insist especially on what afghan women have won. i was looking at a video before coming to this debate – from staffan de mistura, one of the people who have done more for afghanistan because he has been the special envoy of the united nations there – where the young girls and women in afghanistan were trying to counterbalance the taliban raising their kalashnikovs by raising their pens. raising their pens in order to claim their right to school, their right to education. because the education of women is the basis of a civilised society, because when you educate a human being, you educate a human being. when you educate a woman you educate a family. you educate more than one woman. the multiplier effect of education for women is impressive. and when i see these young girls raising up their pencils i think that all of us we should raise up our pencils and our engagement with the afghan people and especially with afghan women.
the s&d group. mr president, the war in afghanistan is back. the taliban are building their next strongholds and regaining control in parts of the country. there is an unstoppable wave of violence against civilians. after 20 years of international intervention, despite many improvements, afghanistan cannot be considered a genuine success. the trafficking of illegal drugs and weapons to terrorist organisations remains at the highest level. opium production reached 6 300 tonnes on a total area of 224 000 hectares. it's almost the territory of luxembourg, you can imagine. today afghanistan produces three times as much drugs as it did under the taliban, and drug production is also a threat to the security of the european union. now is the time to rethink our policies. the european union can no longer limit itself to economic aid, but must act as a global player in the region.
madam president, i would like to welcome the commissioner back to the european parliament. in recent years, with a very large majority here in the european parliament, we have repeatedly called for the strengthening of the rule of law inside the european union and outside the european union. we saw this as a core value of the european union. we said that all of the tools at our disposal had to be applied and, if new tools were needed, we should create those new tools. as of 1 january, the rule of law conditionality mechanism is in place. this is a big victory, including for pro-european forces in this house. although we never believed that guidelines for the implementation of this regulation were needed, we are now looking forward to receiving them from the commission. we have now accepted that they are coming and we are going to provide our reaction to them in a report of this house. we also take note that they will be slightly delayed, but our message is clear. more delays are not acceptable. it’s time that these guidelines came so that we know exactly how we apply this regulation. i believe it has to be applied in a very rigorous and meticulous manner, exactly as the chair of the committee on budgetary control said, in a way which is objective, not political, and in the same manner with regard to all cases that appear, irrespective of the country in which they appear. our call to the commission now is to build solid cases in the beginning because the whole credibility of this initiative in the future very much depends on the success of the first cases. they should be solid and done in a way in which they cannot be challenged or contested. we trust in the commission.
madam president, a little over six months ago we adopted the regulation on the attachment of european funds to the rule of law. but the great victory was only on paper. the commission has not found a way to start implementing this historic regulation. commissioner, i don't want to initiate criminal proceedings against the commission, but this decision is without alternative. we've been debating for years, and in that time, the rule of law has collapsed in hungary, poland, bulgaria, slovenia. how long does the list have to be before you start enforcing the law with all its weight? and a week ago, bulgaria was rocked by the most sweeping sanctions under the magnitsky act for corruption and abuse of power. why are our american partners able to do what the european commission should have done long ago? and yet i believe that the commission will find the determination to take the battle for the rule of law to a qualitatively new level. and if he can't, we're prepared to give the court the necessary push, because politicians don't have to make easy decisions, they have to make the right decisions.
in writing. due to commitments with the upcoming election campaign in bulgaria, i am participating in this session remotely. i therefore write to you, pursuant to rule 171 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, on the debate on the european rule of law mechanism. nearly two years ago, when you were elected attorney general, i warned you of an impending institutional crisis in bulgaria. months later, i sparked a heated debate about the already-present crisis of the rule of law. today, the us government is sanctioning bulgarian oligarchs close to power and even the acting head of the office of surveillance and security, the former head of the very agency that enforces the srs. in our country, a scandal is brewing over illegal wiretapping of politicians, teams from the prosecutor's office are breaking into the ministry of interior, and teams from the dans - in the prosecutor's office... citizens ask why our partners overseas can respond, but the eu, of which we are a full member, cannot. we expect immediate action to activate the rule of law mechanism and active action by the european public prosecutor's office to end the institutional conflict and to help restore the rule of law. continued eu inaction, in the face of a sharp political crisis, could - in the words of one of the leaders of the former rulers - lead to the replacement of one corruption model with another.
madam president, commissioner, for some speakers, this debate on cybersecurity is clearly being used as a pretext for further ideological attacks against russia. this is a serious matter which deserves a broader and more balanced approach. you denounce the threat posed to europe by the hacking operations against our institutions, because it is true that europe is sensitive and vulnerable to these attacks. you mention their potential russian origin, but you remain silent when us intelligence agencies bug european leaders. there is also silence when french intelligence services collaborate with the american company palantir, close to the nsa, thus giving the americans a foothold in our most confidential sovereignty. there is still silence when the chinese giant huawei, which is backed by the chinese communist party, invests all of europe by deploying its 5g networks. let us not forget the lesson of french vice-admiral arnaud coustillière, who declared before the senate that all our computer equipment, from the small software to the electronic chip, exposed us to foreign infiltration. since edward snowden's revelations of us spying in europe, the european union has said a lot but done little. we should have and must promote the development of european sectors in the digital industry. this must be achieved by preferential financing of our technological training, material supply, software development and assembly and equipment capacities. here, as elsewhere, sovereignty must remain the guiding principle of our political action.
madam president! this is war, because cyberattacks are modern warfare. and it's not really about individual hackers breaking into bank accounts, but it's about armies of state-sponsored, soviet-paid hackers destabilizing our world -- the western world. i have the inventory here, i can read it. every few weeks, there are attacks on the state institutions of our european union member states, but also attacks outside the european union, and especially in those countries that are candidates for future membership in our structures. yes, this is war. i think we have to do everything to be in solidarity in this war, to be in solidarity with the united states in this war, and in this war, one for all and all for one.
madam president, the pandemic has accelerated the shift towards digitalisation, which has now become integrated in virtually every aspect of personal and working lives. this comes with a significant rise in cybercrime as criminals take advantage of the massive shift towards remote work. a few weeks ago, ireland’s healthcare system suffered the biggest cyberattack in the history of our state, which affected most of the country’s health services, including coronavirus testing, maternal care services, cancer care, covid-19 tracking and routine referrals for secondary care. cyberattacks on healthcare systems have risen significantly since the pandemic began last year, with criminals taking over servers, stealing personal data and then charging money to allow officials to get it back. the callousness of such attacks during a pandemic, where many people have sadly lost their lives, is beyond reproach. we must be aware that cyberthreats are rapidly evolving in nature and sophistication. the eu and all member states need a digital security architecture that defends us robustly against cyberattacks. this will be central to ensuring security in the digital world and to protecting the health and well-being of citizens. the attack on the irish health system should stand as a stark warning, for ransomware operators are becoming more effective at targeting larger and larger organisations. we need a strong european-level approach and cybersecurity policy to combat this new form of advanced criminality.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's cybersecurity policy, including on the implementation of the union's cybersecurity policy. in april, we witnessed cyberattacks against european institutions. just two years ago, bulgaria experienced the largest cyberattack on a national institution, and the data of over 5 million european citizens was made public. in this resolution, we want to emphasise that cybersecurity must be a cornerstone of the digitisation process. it must be embedded in every technological process of the present and the future. the human factor is also key. cybersecurity training should be a priority for any government. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-wide cybercrime strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-wide cybercrime strategy. they should develop their own prevention and resilience strategies and be held accountable for non-compliance with the measures.
madam president, we in the european union must be prepared to significantly strengthen the security of the internet and other critical networks and information systems. as we can see in current cases around the world, attacks on our data will become increasingly sophisticated and the consequences more dangerous. a lack of systematic protection can threaten not only the functioning of the single market but also the safety or lives of our citizens. by 2024, there will be more than 22 billion devices connected to the internet worldwide. i therefore welcome and appreciate the council's decision in april this year to approve the establishment of a cyber security competence centre. it is important that we develop this area and that the european commission presents further proposals to complement the 2019 cybersecurity act. cybersecurity is key to building a more resilient, environmentally friendly and digital europe. it is important not only to achieve strategic autonomy in this area but also to maintain an open economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us joint action on cybersecurity, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us joint action on cybersecurity. but in conclusion, let me also stress my personal priority, which is the protection of children on the internet, and i trust that the european commission will meet the deadline and present the planned legislation in this area as well, with a view to a long-term solution in this area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our economy and our daily lives are increasingly dependent on digital technologies and are therefore at risk of cyberattacks. so many attempts to hack into the security systems of our strategic infrastructure, public and private, large and small, and each of us is at risk in the use of our digital devices. the pandemic has accelerated the digital transition, but it has also demonstrated the strong security and skills gaps that need to be addressed to make the transition safe and ensure a global strengthening of the european union. unfortunately, among the criticisms that have emerged are also the interferences of third countries that seek to weaken our democracy and our economy. the cyber attack on the european commission has been another wake-up call. i welcome the council's recent initiative to also provide a new research centre with specific expertise alongside the european cybersecurity agency, and i share the decision taken last month to sanction chinese- and hostile-state-sponsored hackers. europe needs to strengthen its digital defenses to safeguard its democratic independence and defend its strategic structures.
madam president, the increasing number and complexity of cyber-attacks since the beginning of the pandemic have demonstrated the urgent need for europe to achieve a high level of cybersecurity. hospitals, research centers, and national administrations have been the prime targets of hackers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data in the context of the fight against fraud. unfortunately, my fellow countrymen in bulgaria have also been hit by an unprecedented cyber attack on the national revenue agency and a commercial registry meltdown. recently, the electronic registration system for the vaccination hour also collapsed due to a hacker attack. the new european union cybersecurity strategy should be based on three principles. the first is to strengthen the resilience of critical infrastructure, the second is to ensure the union's strategic autonomy by reducing technological dependence on external partners, and the third is to overcome the skills shortage among citizens. this is a prerequisite for entering the world of digitised services, which should not marginalise the elderly and the less educated.
in writing. i support the initiative in principle and agree that the conditions under which animals are kept can be significantly improved. it makes sense for the commission and the member states to introduce measures in this regard. whatever the measures, it is imperative that there are concrete, meaningful proposals to deal with the consequences of such a change in livestock production. removing the cells will mean at least doubling the amount of land and manpower needed. this will hit manufacturers hard at the wallet, and they will shift the burden onto consumers. we must prevent these effects, or all measures will be reckless. there is a huge risk that imports from third countries will replace our production because it will remain cheap. and right now, from australia and new zealand, even north macedonia, they're importing lambs that don't meet european standards because they're fed poor quality feed. europeans buy them because of the low price, even though our producers can satisfy over 90% of the market. the aim is noble, but obviously it must be approached with caution. we need to show manufacturers that they will be supported in their efforts to eliminate the cells and that they will not lose market share. the same high standards must be observed for all imports of animal products.
mr president, these days, we are seeing the von der leyen tour to present recovery and resilience plans. since the beginning of this great project, which is fundamental to our future, some of us have been demanding the strengthening of democratic commitment and respect for human rights. the european council has a great opportunity to use the best tool that circumstances have put in its hands. it can now show its strength in order to demand exemplary behaviour in all member states without exception, without double standards. on monday, the council of europe approved a report on turkey and spain about freedom to do politics, freedom of expression, and it pointed out a series of recommendations for spain, ms garcía pérez: not for hungary, poland or slovenia, but for spain. i trust that the european council will take good note of this and ensure that the money of europeans is used to improve democracy where it is weakening.
mr president, as we get ready to commence the final council meeting of the portuguese presidency we can reflect on a very successful term, and i would like to congratulate our portuguese colleagues in this regard, although i do hope that we have a successful conclusion to the cap negotiations this week, and i know that the portuguese presidency is working very hard to bring that about. i’d also like to highlight the success of the eu vaccine rollout, with 53% of the adult population already receiving one dose, something that we are well on our way to reaching the 70% target. yet we must be acutely aware, while there is light at the end of the tunnel for us, the pandemic still rages in many places across the globe, and we must do more to help these people. several colleagues have also mentioned the situation in hungary as regards legislation banning dissemination of content relating to homosexuality and gender change. this is wrong, but i’m proud of the work done by my fine gael colleague maria walsh in this regard, and for the strong support shown to the lgbti community in hungary and beyond. the european union embraces diversity, inclusion, human dignity and equality, and we should not tolerate discrimination.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the un commissioner for human rights calls her report on sea rescue in the mediterranean "a deadly disregard". in fact, for years, organizations have been defending our values in the mediterranean. but what we need is a european sea rescue and the distribution of people rescued from the sea. the dignity of the human being is inviolable? we remember that it was also part of the malta declaration that organisations should follow the instructions of libyan militias and bring people back to libya - back to torture and forced labour. and the drafts of the council conclusions read somewhat similarly: focus only on externalisation, on transit and countries of origin, on capacity building for so-called migration management. no word on protecting people and protecting human rights at our borders. this is not my europe!
mr president, relaunching and strengthening the malta declaration, and above all its spirit, is certainly a positive step towards protecting the rights of refugees and migrants, but it is not enough. the responsibility for the common migration policy cannot be borne solely by the southern states, but must be a shared, joint and binding responsibility of all the member states of the union. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of persons who have been granted asylum in the member states. but above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to put in place a genuine, clear and precise european action plan for maritime search and rescue operations and for the disembarkation of migrants in safe ports, agreed between frontex, the commission and the member states. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the european union must therefore humanize its common migration policy.
mr president, back in 2015, the valletta summit on migration brought together european and african leaders. they agreed to address the root causes of irregular migration, to enhance cooperation on legal migration and to prevent irregular migration. leaders promised to shoulder a common responsibility in a fair manner between countries of origin, countries of transit and destination. yet, five years later, europe’s southern front is still facing a disproportionate burden through irregular migration and requests for humanitarian protection. by way of asylum claims per capita in the eu for 2020, the three top countries were cyprus with 838 claims, malta with 482 and greece with 378 claims per 100 000 inhabitants. today, solidarity between member states remains limited and applied on an ad hoc basis. many still ignore that migration is an eu problem to tackle at the eu level, and it calls for responsible and concrete decisions. firstly, to tackle the actual roots of irregular migration. secondly, overhaul the current system towards a permanent and proportionate structure of allocation for asylum seekers. the ball remains in the council’s court. the emergency has been going on for too long. tangible results are urgently required.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me also thank all the honourable members of this house for highlighting the fact that the eu is a union based on values with the utmost respect for human dignity, equality and high respect for human rights and non—discrimination. this was clearly underscored in a strong statement by the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, this morning. i would also like to thank honourable members for numerous references to migration. let me repeat what mr cioloş has also underlined. we cannot always just react to eventual crises. we need to use foresight and agree on long—term, sustainable, balanced and comprehensive solutions that will address all aspects of the migratory issue. therefore, we need to work jointly on the proposals which the commission made nine months ago. i know that the european parliament is ready for this discussion and we hope that very soon this will also be the situation and the position of the council. to conclude, i would just like to underline that i absolutely concur with all the speakers who reminded us not to lose focus on how we make sure that we emerge from this crisis and, even more importantly, emerge stronger, and that we need to tackle both parts of the crisis: the health aspect, but also the economic impact. therefore, i think that the focus here clearly needs to be to accelerate or keep up the high pace of vaccinations and work very intensely and jointly on the future of building the european health union, which should be able to respond very quickly and dynamically to potential crises of this quality in the future. but we also need to tackle the economic consequences of this crisis, and there our best recipe is to implement the recovery and resilience plans. what is encouraging – and i am glad that i can share this with this house – is not only the quality of the plans we are receiving, but also the fact that now we have the financial resources to support the successful implementation of these plans. here i am referring to the very successful first—ever issuance of the next generation eu bonds. implementation of the recovery plans and a financial boost to our economies is the best answer to the current challenge, which i believe will help to transform our economies to be greener, to be more digital, but also to be stronger and more resilient.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the portuguese presidency for its words of appreciation, which i am sure i will pass on to my whole team, and i am grateful for the cooperation received over the last six months from the european parliament. it was an honour and a privilege, mr president, to work with the european parliament in a true spirit of loyal cooperation. i've learned a lot in these six months. it was really nice to stop by. i also thank you for the opportunity to have this debate and for your comments and remarks on the forthcoming european council. i shall try to pass them on to my prime minister and also to the president of the european council. we have a very busy agenda with important international issues: libya, russia, belarus, the sahel, ethiopia and the terrible situation in tigray. we shall also have the fundamental questions of economic recovery. with the vaccination campaign well underway and several crucial pieces of legislation in place, we can look to the future with the hope of regaining our freedoms and rebuilding the european economy. while we are building a better, more resilient, greener, fairer, more innovative society, we also have to continue to uphold our core values: democracy, the rule of law, human rights, equality and non-discrimination at the heart of the european union and also outside of it, in our relationship with turkey, with russia and with our african partners. it is hopeful that after more than two years, the migration issue will be brought back to the leaders' table for a debate that will focus in particular on the external dimension. the presidency will continue to make efforts to find a permanent solution based on solidarity which will replace the ad hoc treatment of different situations. we hope that the commission and the high representative, in cooperation with the member states, can develop concrete action plans with the countries of origin and transit of migrants, indicating objectives, concrete support measures, timetables to tackle the root causes of migration. we have approved the financial instruments of the multiannual financial framework. we can use at least 10% of the cdi financial envelope and funds from other instruments to advance this agenda. we know that this is a politically difficult dossier, but we must find solutions based on the values of society, solidarity and shared responsibility.
the whole debate on our agenda is therefore closed. before we proceed to the debates on the agenda, and before we even open the voting period today, i would like to give the floor to two speakers under rule 159 (4) of the rules of procedure, and first i would then give the floor to mr hristov who has asked to speak under that provision of our rules of procedure on his report on the challenges and opportunities for the black sea fisheries sector.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am pleased that after a 10-year break, the problems facing the black sea fisheries sector are again the subject of attention by the european parliament. the black sea is a body of water with very specific characteristics. only two of the coastal countries, bulgaria and romania, are members of the european union, which makes it difficult to coordinate our resource management. another local specic is the fleet, which is mainly small-scale, with about 95% of all fishing vessels in bulgaria falling under this category. in this context, i believe that the countries in the region should put in place measures and mechanisms to enable these fishermen to maintain their livelihoods and to have fair access to the market for fish and fishery products. the state of economically important aquatic organisms is of great concern. the implementation of the 'black sea for fish' project, which will provide up-to-date information on some of the species, is commendable. in this context, i call on the governments of the countries of the region to increase national investment in science and research on both the stocks and the state of the environment in the black sea. at the same time, the opportunities for the sector should not be underestimated. bulgaria and romania have the lowest fish consumption per capita. although export-oriented, fishing should not neglect the local market. fish is a recommended, healthy food resource and a substitute for environmentally debilitating livestock farming. the pandemic, which has disrupted international trade, has demonstrated the need for local extraction and production of all food commodities. there is also growth potential in so-called unwanted or unused catches, which contain market opportunities in processed or unprocessed form. these are just some of the proposals that i hope will be reflected in the european parliament's official position on the challenges and opportunities facing the black sea fisheries sector.
madam president, the rule of law is without any doubt one of the areas where the citizens expect the european union to deliver. people expect that the institutions of the european union protect our values and fundamental rights. when the rule of law functions, our citizens can trust that their rights are being respected and our democracies are being protected. with the rule of law, we can guarantee the legal order of the union. today we are discussing again the rule of law. we should, of course, not only discuss the rule of law, but also actively defend it through the permanent and comprehensive mechanism that can be activated without delay. this mechanism needs to be objective and it needs to be, of course, beyond any political control. we are all equal in the face of the rule of law, no matter where we come from or what we do. that is why we cannot just condemn free and independent media when it is attacked, when pressure is put on national judges or civil society organisations are silenced. any condemnation and breach of the rule of law must be followed by concrete corrective benchmarks, deadlines and, if needed, also corrective measures and sanctions. the citizens of the union expect that from us.
madam president, the citizens of europe expect all of us, including the commission, to defend their rights, freedoms and democracy when it is put at risk. but is it possible to do so in a situation where we increasingly see where the business considerations of a political family that has seized almost every post in the european union are leading? the commission has for too long turned a blind eye to epp prime ministers who have grossly abused their power, surrounded themselves with oligarchic circles who have bought with european funds. so today the rule of law is a mirage not only for one country and an emblematic case in bulgaria. while the commission was describing the situation, or rather covering it up with witty phrases and typical brussels clichés, the us imposed the largest ever package of one-day sanctions under the magnitsky act against a group of businessmen. the reason: corruption. the one that went unnoticed here in brussels. and so my question to the commission is this: after 12 years of running gerb and the epp in bulgaria, who have these businessmen corrupted? i hope we will finally see an answer in the next report on bulgaria.
member of the commission. – mr president, information and knowledge about reproductive and sexual health must be accurate and comprehensive if the policies and actions we pursue are to work. your report does an excellent job of pinpointing gaps in information and room for improvement in policies. the commission takes note of the wide range of recommendations for member states in areas that are their exclusive responsibility. all commission services will closely examine your recommendations to see where we can include them in our policies. we thank the european parliament for its continued strong support for women’s rights, including on a matter as fundamental as their bodily integrity. together, we can counter the current backsliding on women’s rights and promote full enjoyment of sexual and reproductive health and rights by all. backsliding is not an option. the only viable option is to continue championing a healthier and fairer europe. this is the road we will continue to pursue. (applause)
the european commission has already announced that it will be launching a new european high performance computing joint undertaking (eurohpc) with a budget of eur 8 billion for the period 21-23 to equip europe with the best supercomputer network in the world. the report goes hand in hand with this objective, but also and above all aims to ensure that eurohpc will serve all member states, whether or not they have been selected to host supercomputers, and that it will also serve individuals, businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises, research institutions, universities and public administrations. ultimately, we want to ensure that this important infrastructure, which we will be investing in, will be a true driver of transformation aligned with the european union's key development and sustainability goals, helping us to combat climate change, to modernize our industries, our cities and our transportation, to study the origins and evolution and solutions to pandemics, and to develop new medicines, new vaccines that save lives. the report is based on the principle that the first way to measure the success of this partnership will be the level of involvement, access and awareness it is able to generate among potential users. this means giving access to infrastructure, services and data, with openness, transparency and simplification as cornerstones, paying particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups, avoiding high usage fees and other barriers to access that can be discouraging, cultivating a proactive attitude on the part of those who will manage this infrastructure to disseminate the services provided as well as access to data, and actively involving stakeholders in decision-making processes, which is why we propose the creation of a user forum with an advisory role. in order to take full advantage of this investment, an ecosystem of excellence will have to be created and strengthened, accessible to all stakeholders and independent of the region of origin or its size. to achieve this, it will be necessary to increase the capacities of many of the actors. therefore, the creation of synergies and complementarity with other european union programmes, in particular the regional funds, inveseu, the recovery and resilience fund, will have to happen, but in a simple, practical and effective way. the creation of the ecosystem around this supercomputer network will also involve encouraging scientific research and innovation activities, particularly in the area of hardware, with a focus on microprocessors. we need to re-establish the production culture in europe, especially in emerging technologies such as digital technologies. research on quantum computing should also be given relevance. to benefit fully from these capabilities, the european union will also need to develop skills and competences, paying particular attention to increasing the participation of women and promoting a broad dissemination and awareness of opportunities to improve digital skills. eurohpc should also ensure the visibility of its activities to citizens. respect for environmentally responsible practices in the operation of these supercomputers and their network is the other major challenge. as we know, supercomputers consume a lot of energy, so it is essential to adopt energy efficiency and clean energy strategies wherever possible. i would like to conclude by thanking the various political groups for their strong support for this report. to my colleagues, to all those involved in the work of this report, my sincere thanks. the merit of this acceptance lies in the project itself and its ambition. we all agree on the fundamental importance, the strategic importance of this investment for our future, for the future of the union.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i thank, also on behalf of executive vice—president vestager, the rapporteur ms carvalho and the european parliament for their hard work on this proposal. the report on which you will vote tomorrow recognises the importance of european high performance computing (hpc) for europe’s digital sovereignty and its undoubted added value for european research and innovation. the europe hpc joint undertaking will be a cornerstone of the digital decade. the digital transformation of europe cannot be achieved without secure, performant and sustainable digital infrastructures. here, supercomputing, infrastructure and services are key. the new regulation will allow to draw from the new eu financial programmes and encourage co—investment between member states and the eu. europe will soon become one of the most advanced regions in high performance computing and quantum computing. next generation supercomputers will be reaching end—scale performance capable of more than one trillion operations per second. we will have supercomputers adapted to the most pressing industrial needs developed, and we expect to develop our first quantum computers. the joint investments and activities will ensure the interconnection of these world class supercomputing infrastructure to a large number of public and private users from anywhere in europe. the europe hpc will also support the development of ambitious novel scientific and industrial applications in various areas. in addition, the development and mastering of low—consumption high—end processors is crucial for a wide range of markets, from supercomputers to edge and cloud computers, autonomous cars and smartphones. finally, our strategy would be incomplete without considering how to widen the use of high—performance computing and address the skills dimension. we will therefore attract and train a large number of smes and public users to profit from our supercomputing investments. we will also co—invest with industry in the acquisition of dedicated systems and in the development of large—scale industrial applications. we will ensure that the eu supercomputing infrastructure supports the new ai applications, provides cloud—based services to a wide range of users, and effectively links with the future public data spaces. these are all key elements of our broader digital strategy. we established the first europe hpc joint undertaking almost three years ago, with an ambition to make europe a leading supercomputing power. now the vision is becoming a reality. it shows that when europe has ambitions, it can deliver and achieve them, and this is the path on which we will continue with the new joint undertaking.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the pandemic has demonstrated the need for a pan-european strategic approach in high performance computing. it was these leading-edge technologies that allowed the rapid development of covid-19 vaccines. ensuring the union's strategic autonomy, in particular with regard to critical infrastructure components, is a prerequisite for the success of the joint undertaking. the second key condition is to ensure the security of the supply chain of the purchased technologies and systems and to meet high cybersecurity standards. the interoperability between supercomputers and ai-based technologies must also be ensured if we are to unlock the full potential of the pharmaceutical sector and bring about improvements in healthcare. high performance computing technologies will boost the data-driven economy, while providing incentives for innovation to small and medium-sized enterprises, which need easy access to supercomputers. i believe that in order to make the joint undertaking a success, we need to focus our efforts in several directions. first, a balanced geographical distribution of supercomputers within the union is necessary. secondly, particular attention should be paid to the so-called 'skills extension pillar'. the lack of sufficient staff with appropriate digital skills was identified as one of the main weaknesses in the work of the joint undertaking. so as we build capacity, we should invest in developing and retaining talent. the joint undertaking will also be able to use its existing capacity to develop and implement new technologies and services, to support the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work, and to support the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work. thank you for your attention.
i have to say, madam president, everything we needed to know to take action and avert climate catastrophe was already in the first report of the un climate panel in the summer of 1990. but over the past 30 years, we have shown time and time again that we cannot, will not, or dare do what is necessary to save our beautiful planet. the climate law we are about to vote on has several of the improvements that we greens have fought hard for. but it still doesn't live up to what we know it needs to. and the climate is not a negotiating partner. i'm the grandmother of eight children and for the sake of the future, i have to vote no. our ambitions must match the demands of science. the best thing that has happened in many years for the climate is still greta thunberg and her mobilization of so many, especially young people. and let me say, as she said to the leaders of the world, how dare you! how dare you!
madam president, i think that the climate law is not an absolute indicator of the current state of the european union. that means the situation is more than worrisome. fellas, in your attempt to deal with these mythical climate changes, you've jumped from one extreme to another. the commission quickly gave in to the marxist majority in parliament. it seems that here, the ambition to protect nature has turned into hatred of man. but remember, humans are part of the biodiversity. i am very pleased that the sophisticated proposals of one of my colleagues here have been eliminated in the negotiations with the council. unfortunately, that's not enough. the climate law as it stands is not just an ambitious package of conservation measures. it is a direct attack on many member states and european citizens. fellas, it doesn't matter what kind of foundation you're planning to create. if this bill is passed, you will destroy the livelihoods of millions of europeans, depopulate entire regions and create a generation of unemployed second-hand workers.
madam president, today is a great day for the eu, today is a great day for the world, as we are writing into law the goal for europe to be climate neutral by 2050. now climate change policies are ingrained in virtually every aspect of our work, be that legislation or funding. the moment of change has come. it is now time to start achieving real results, and it is incumbent on every citizen and every lawmaker at every level to help make this happen. a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 is a very ambitious target. to quote mr timmermans in a previous debate, ‘damn hard to achieve’. but without ambition there would be no incentive to invest, no certainty for industry to make necessary changes. tracking progress on an annual basis, especially at member state level, will be vital for success. the european commission has to do this. and where there are blockages such as regulatory red tape, planning permission delays, lack of investment, the commission must tell the member state, sort it out and sort it out now. the days of prevarication and excuses are over. there is no time for delay. ar aghaidh linn go cróga agus go tapaidh. is iontach an lá é seo don aontas agus don phláinéad.
madam president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur jutta gütteland for the excellent work he has done on this very important piece of legislation. at one time, climate change may have seemed to us like a dubious prediction of an uncertain future. but today, they are a scientifically proven threat to the entire world, and it is dangerous and irresponsible to deny the reality. europe has set itself a clear target of being climate neutral by 2050, but to achieve this goal, it must undergo a complete change in the economic model to which we are accustomed and make rational use of renewable energy sources. this will not only allow us to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions, but it will also create new opportunities, including new jobs, because the traditional economic model based on exhaustible energy sources puts us in debt to future generations. and if we continue to invest in fossil fuels, we may have more energy today, but our grandchildren will have less. renewable energy is a constantly growing resource. the more we use them, the more we have, the more we invest today, the more we will gain tomorrow.
madam president, the agreement reached is a success that we should undoubtedly support. it is an opportunity for europe to really contribute to overcoming the climate and environmental crisis that we all feel very clearly every day. but more importantly, climate law is an opportunity for europe to take its rightful place as the economic, industrial and energy leader of the 21st century. european citizens, the people of europe, to be leaders in education, in technology, in the scientific breakthroughs that will make possible a successful market economy that preserves nature, preserves the living environment for the development and survival of our societies. climate law should not be seen as a set of constraints and barriers to the economy. such legislation would have a negative impact on citizens and businesses, and would set a bad example for those societies that follow europe in the fight against climate change. on the contrary, climate law should be an example of a technological leadership effort and the imposition of a market-based economic model that improves people's lives and gives new opportunities to businesses.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, statistics show that the population of the union is living longer and in better health. that's a great accomplishment. however, it is worrying that the natural population growth has been negative over the last 10 years, leading to an ageing population and rapid depopulation of certain regions - a trend which is unfortunately also strong in my country - bulgaria. we can't afford to delay any longer. a long-term strategy and plan should be drawn up to overcome the negative consequences that this trend may have, such as the depopulation of entire areas, the severe strain on national pension and health systems, the decline in the union's competitiveness and labour shortages. the needs of citizens must be addressed first and foremost, and social and health systems must be prepared to respond. it is essential to eradicate any form of age discrimination, which unfortunately still exists, for example in employment. the conditions for active ageing in good health should also be created and the social inclusion of citizens should be promoted. the union and the member states should pursue a consistent and targeted policy and develop tools that create more opportunities for young people to achieve, to ensure access to quality services for all citizens including those living in rural areas. in this report, we propose concrete policies and measures to be developed and implemented with the participation of civil society and local authorities. this should also take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitalisation for the provision of services and the creation of employment opportunities in a number of sectors.
madam president, i wish to make an argument for the extension of our sanctions regime to crimes of corruption and fraud. in april the uk extended its sanctions regime to 14 russian nationals, the same 14 russian nationals who were uncovered by sergei magnitsky himself. the same 14 russian nationals were subjected to no sanctions here in the eu. they’re not even on the eu consolidated financial sanctions list. and by creating a differentiated sanctions regime between the us, the uk and the eu, we open ourselves to a form of sanctions arbitrage and we open ourselves to the possibility of a compliance burden on multinationals that work across the jurisdictions of the eu, us and the uk. i would like to also say that as a representative of a smaller member state, i support the idea of qualified majority voting in this area. i support it because if not in genocide, if not in torture, if not in crimes against humanity, then when? the space for impunity is shrinking, so let us complete the heroic work of sergei magnitsky.
madam chairman, i support mr mcallister's arguments, but it is important how the sanctions regime will be implemented. one example: a bulgarian oligarch who is on the run from justice in dubai and who has 18 indictments against him, actively supported last year's civil protests against the government and the attorney general. the media has been promoting him for a year. it then became known that he and his associated companies were included in the list of sanctions under the magnitsky act, and the paradox is that this oligarch registers a political party and is currently a candidate for mp. that is why it is important to fight corruption, to protect citizens who are fighting this fight, but also to have a mechanism to reveal the connection of some civil society organizations, as well as politicians, media and parties, with persons involved in the magnitsky act, because the medal always has two sides.
madam president, i welcome the proposal for a regulation on a strengthened role for the european medicines agency. the covid-19 pandemic has clearly highlighted the need for a coordinated approach to the provision of medical devices and medicines in crisis situations. i strongly support and call on the rapporteur, mr nicolas gonzalez casares, for the need for an appropriate regulatory framework to ensure the provision of high quality health services in emergency situations. the lack of a european-wide legal framework has proved to be the major problem in containing the pandemic. the main challenges were the lack of a mechanism for the collection and analysis of data from member states and the absence of a risk assessment of drug shortages. the extension of the agency's mandate will create the conditions for the development of therapies and tailor-made strategies to deal with public health emergencies. on the other hand, however, the granting of wider powers without an impact assessment is not without its risks. the impact on the health systems of individual member states in terms of financial, administrative and human resources is not clear to date. the health crisis should not be used as an excuse to relax the regime for the protection of personal health data. the cyber attack on the fda last november exposed the vulnerability of our security systems. the protection of the digital infrastructure is a priority. last but not least, the lack of transparency in drug pricing erodes public confidence. patients are not the casual users of the scales of the marketplace, they are the suffering people, the needy people. the public is entitled to require socially responsible pricing principles from pharmaceutical companies.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this general debate on european health policy, the main political issue is how far the national powers extend and where the union's powers begin. does the principle of subsidiarity allow the european institutions to engage with health problems in individual member states? the overall vaccine order, despite the initial delay, is an undeniable success. today, the european union has the highest vaccination rates, the best prices and the best safety guarantees in the world, but does this exhaust the union's ability to influence health policy? my answer is a resounding no. much more is needed, because the principle of subsidiarity allows, but also requires, intervention when a country fails to deal with a crisis that threatens the health and lives of its citizens, and across our open borders, of all europeans. and i'll give you a specific example that concerns me deeply, that affects my loved ones, colleagues and neighbors. the second government and third parliament in bulgaria have failed to organize a vaccination campaign, to stop the anti-science propaganda that has led us to the shameful result of about 20% vaccinated at 70% average for the union, to implement policies that promote vaccination and protect citizens. they fail because the political crisis and the constant election campaign make them hostages to a cowardly populism. a few days ago, all the other parties rejected the proposal of democratic bulgaria to include in the budget funds for a public vaccination campaign. but the victims of this failure are not the politicians, the victims are the elderly, the sick, the weak, the victims are small and family businesses, the self-employed, those who have been vaccinated to protect others but today are shutting down their businesses, the victims are children, again threatened by distance learning. so the answer is that europe's powers go only as far as they need to go if national governments fail to protect our citizens.
before we continue the debate, i shall open today's voting. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 6.30 p.m. to 7.45 p.m. the same voting procedure as at the previous partsession shall apply. the immunity issue will be voted on by secret ballot. members vote in the conventional way, but the ballot paper they must receive and sign does not indicate how they voted, only that they voted. all other votes are by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote may not exceed 400 words. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 7.45 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly uses of energy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in these difficult months of the pandemic, we have finally made one thing clear: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. the citizens are asking us to let europe handle the big issues of public health and sanitation. the citizens do not understand how it is possible that in a continent now interconnected in all respects, there are today such great disparities and inequalities in such a delicate and decisive area of people's lives. the reports under discussion today are therefore a good thing, since they give new impetus to european competence, with a greater role of responsibility for the european centre for disease prevention and control and a stronger coordination of the fight against crossborder threats. it's two more pieces to the final goal: a european health union guaranteeing minimum rights and benefits for all european citizens. a europe that guarantees a quality public health system for all.
mr. chairman, the pandemic has dramatically eroded trust between citizens and countries in the health sector. millions of europeans are concerned that health is not a reason for permanent restrictions. we all ask ourselves where health care ends and the abuse of fear begins, because disease is a cost to social systems, but it's also a lucrative business for corporations. the european health union is called upon to introduce mechanisms for coherence and solidarity in crisis prevention and management. health solidarity means that citizens, rich and poor, in any country of the union can rely on satisfactory health care. i strongly support equal access to treatment as the guiding principle in the regulation of serious cross-border health threats. the new normal is not the mask, lockdown, and vaccine doses. this is news, but it's not normal. the new normal must be based on transparent drug policy and pricing, sound scientific information, health literacy, informed personal responsibility and solidarity.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i do generally support the idea of this report, and yet i see risks that i would like to share with you, especially vis-à-vis the legislative work that we will have at the end of this year and the beginning of the next. of course, we are all committed to improving working conditions. we are all looking forward to quality employment and fair incomes on our continent. we share the same concerns that more and more of our younger citizens are sometimes working in insecurity and often even falling out of the social security and health systems, which is a great risk both for them and for the solidarity model as a whole. and yet we could not and we should not fight the achievements of digital technology through outmoded regulations. we have to see the risk that this parliament might try to impose 19th-century metrics over 21st-century social relations. what is really most important for us is that we must accept the realities of the 21st-century labour market and then adjust our regulations to life rather than doing it the other way around.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, sylvie bruney. i am very keen to support the report on fair working conditions, rights and social protection for platform workers because it provides the current challenges and opportunities for this kind of work and the need to ensure improved and transparent working conditions for workers. the work through the platform covers different realities and is characterised by a high degree and diversity in the activities carried out. covid-19 has presented us with many challenges, one of which was to retain as many businesses as possible and create opportunities for them to more easily, quickly and successfully adapt to pandemic and post-pandemic conditions. the commission has also identified a number of other measures that could be considered as part of the 'closing down' of the digital economy. i believe that the work on the platform affects a huge proportion of the workers. a significant portion of the people who lost their jobs switched to employment through various platforms. others who had temporary or part-time employment have also been able to take advantage of the choice and unprecedented flexibility that this type of employment offers. of course, no less remarkable is the fact that working across platforms offers advantages for learners, for those who want to combine learning and work. at a time when young people were particularly affected and one in six young people had lost their jobs due to the pandemic, this type of employment created opportunities for them. unfortunately, workers through platforms are usually defined as formally employed or self-employed, regardless of their actual employment status. as a result, many workers do not enjoy equivalent social protection, labour rights or health and safety provisions. in the context of the ongoing digital transition, it is essential to ensure that new forms of work remain sustainable, transparent and fair, and that work through the platform is guided by union values and a human-centred approach. my delegation has always supported promising and innovative policies for the future that present new opportunities for social inclusion for all people with a working capacity without any discrimination. we will continue to work to create even more opportunities for new working conditions and forms of work, while respecting social and labour rights.
mr president, with the ‘fit for 55’ package, we now stand over the largest single batch of legislation to tackle climate change proposed by any government anywhere. after years of discussing climate change as a problem for the future, it has now slowly crept upon us with increases in devastating wildfires, floods and storms, as well as severe consequences to the natural world and the flora and fauna it houses. i firmly believe that an orderly transition across the energy sector is pivotal for the cohesiveness of the eu, especially in the medium term. this includes ensuring the security of fuel and electricity supplies, minimising stranded assets and making sure ambition is married with practicality and sustainable economic viability. this will require an innovation-centric approach, promoting and developing and, most importantly, investing in the technologies that bring us closer towards a decarbonised economy. the creation of a more circular economy will reduce pressure on natural resources and would create sustainable growth and jobs. as rapporteur for the implementation report on the energy performance of buildings directive, it has been made abundantly clear to me that reaching our climate targets without decarbonising our living and working spaces is frankly impossible. buildings are responsible for 36% of greenhouse gas emissions and 40% of the energy consumption in the eu. we cannot reach our targets without tackling this as well.
mr president, a new report by experts on climate change has been published this summer, and it contains a wealth of scientific evidence. but we have also, unfortunately, experienced natural disasters that no longer happen far from our homes, but in our homes: floods in germany, in belgium, terrible third-generation fires in my country. so there is no alternative, no plan b: we have to act to decarbonise our society, our economy. in that sense, the package which the commission is presenting to us is a good package, a good guide. but i want to reiterate: we cannot allow the cost of this ecological transition to fall on the final consumer and on the poorest, the workers, because they are also paying a double bill - the bill of our political incapacity for not having acted earlier is also present in those electricity tariffs that are unacceptable to the most vulnerable - and they cannot afford the cost of a necessary ecological transition. that is why social change for the climate is fundamental, commissioner.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, i would like to welcome you. climate change is a reality. of course, action is needed. we all know that. but i would point out that these measures must be realistic, reasonable and of a nature to encourage citizens to take action. i'll give you one example: i live in a rural area where we have our own forest. we're cleaning it up. because of the storms, the glacier has a lot of fallen wood. of course, we burn this wood, we warm ourselves with it. we're using new technology: better furnaces, insulation and so on. and i wonder, will i be punished for this in the future because i'm still using this wood as fuel? this is just one example. there's probably a lot more of them, life-long. these measures must therefore be such as to actually encourage and motivate citizens to call us not brussels bureaucrats but those who take reasonable action.
mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of europe are daily witnesses to global warming and increasingly aware of the urgency of action. this legislative package has the merit of taking a holistic approach, from emissions to energy efficiency to renewables, and commits us to taking concrete decisions by turning the challenge of climate change into an opportunity. that's why i think we need vision, not ideological approaches. we cannot afford to lose entire industrial sectors and the jobs associated with them, which risk unfair competition from non-european countries. we need to bet on clean energy, but we also need to have costs and mechanisms, such as adjusting the price of carbon at frontiers, to ensure the competitiveness of the industrial system. we will only win the bet with a balanced and concrete transition, which puts research, innovation and the development of technologies at the heart of what makes europe a global leader. managing a transition is complex, doing it quickly, well and leaving no one behind is a duty.
mr president, mr president of the council, vice-president of the commission, colleagues, the climate is changing and we must change to mitigate the damage and ensure the survival of our own children. the proposal 'readiness for objective 55' is the beginning of a radical economic transformation. economic, because the main culprit for the state of the climate is the market as we know it today, namely overproduction, overconsumption, oversupply, which has led to fatal consequences, and the proof of this is the failure of the current economic model, and unfortunately, the price of this failure is paid by the common man. in germany, the floods cost 30 billion euros, in greece, the fires cost 500 million euros, and dozens of people paid the price with their lives. we need to support the commission in this room in its efforts to reduce emissions, but we also need to reach out to our own governments, especially those that have no desire or strategy to change, because otherwise -- and i'll finish -- inequality will crush us.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. afghanistan must not become a hotbed of international terrorism again! there can never be another 9/11! the situation in afghanistan is tragic. so hungary did what was its moral duty: evacuated hungarians and other nato citizens and afghans who were helping the hungarian contingent. in addition to the failure in afghanistan, we must now avoid another failure: a repeat of the 2015 migrant crisis. let's get humanitarian aid there instead of creating new false illusions and irresponsibly encouraging the evacuation, the distribution of millions of afghans, because we would be leaving in droves, even those who obviously don't pass our security checks. at the same time, we must support the protection of the borders of turkey and the western balkans. the further we get from stopping illegal migration from europe, the better. that's why we need to get help into the area.
madam president, the recent developments in afghanistan must be a wake—up call for us to reflect about our common foreign and security policy. it is clear that we have to go beyond just expressing our concerns. first, of course it is about providing immediate humanitarian assistance for all those people in need in afghanistan in order to stabilise the whole region and to prevent a migration crisis. second, we need to identify a coherent strategy and develop a united approach at eu level, together with our international partners, on how to deal with the de facto rulers in kabul, the taliban. third, international cooperation with our allies and partners is necessary to ensure regional stability and global security. the risk of resurgence of radical islamist forces in afghanistan is real. as europeans, i strongly believe we have to draw serious lessons learned for the nature and mandate of future military interventions. we need to strengthen our own defence cooperation and military capabilities, such as our intelligence and strategic airlift capacities. doing this should always go hand—in—hand with close transatlantic cooperation. in this regard, i welcome the recent initiative of the high representative and vice—president.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the taliban are searching people house to house, targeted executions are on the horizon, people in kabul are terrified, everyone is trying to escape. this is the cry of alarm from afghan ambassador to the un ghulam isaczai, in the wake of the taliban militia's capture of the capital. it's only been a month since then, but the spotlight already seems to be starting to turn off on a humanitarian catastrophe with few precedents. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states and the european union on the issue of the afghan refugee crisis. if we do not want our ambitions to become a credible international actor, which bases its work on respect for human rights, to remain just an abstract concept, if we do not want the highest price to be paid by those who collaborated with our western staff, women, children, every fragile subject, we need consistency, we need courage and now we need to make time run fast and run against us. humanitarian corridors now!
madam president, we have all rightly been deeply moved by the images of the tragedy in kabul in recent weeks, and even more moved, of course, by the thought of the afghan civilian victims, but also of all the young western soldiers, especially european ones, who have fallen by the thousands for 20 years in afghanistan in an attempt to make that country more democratic, more free. but emotion is one thing, and we must learn from it today. i hear a lot of bad conscience complaints about our mistakes, about our cowardice, about what we didn't do, about what we should have done. we must, of course, list these errors. there are many, many more reasons to be stated here in a minute, the biggest of which was probably the illusion that we could transform such a different country in such a short time and with almost exclusively military effort. but another mistake was more concrete and must lead us to find solutions today; it was a mistake to think that once there was an announced us withdrawal and once there was a political agreement for the taliban to return to power, even partially, that everything would not fall back into the hands of the taliban. it may have happened faster than expected, but the shock and surprise are still a good excuse for not seeing that we have not been lucid, vigilant and farsighted enough in the last few weeks. and there was no consultation between allies, not enough. so, mr high representative, i hear you today proposing things to improve european autonomy, which is not a bad word. i think you're probably right about ambition. i think that in practice we must first be able to analyse situations, to assess situations before acting autonomously. today we are not able to do that. progress must therefore be made, but it must be made in a realistic way so that the 'wake-up call' everyone is talking about does not remain another event without a response from the european union.
madam president, after twenty years of war in afghanistan, we are faced with many mistakes that we have made. we must have an effective european union foreign policy. firstly, we must not allow afghanistan to be used as a base for all kinds of terrorist organisations targeting europe. we need to monitor the threats ourselves and have our own sources of information. we will also need to strengthen our cooperation with countries in the region and with partners on the ground, including russia and china, to have a much greater influence on the taliban. secondly, the taliban have sources of funding such as opium production and trade and we need to find a way to reduce them. the negative impact of opium is well known in europe. the number of people who die each year from heroin overdose in nato countries is ten times the total number of nato soldiers killed in afghanistan - ten times the total! last but not least, we must ensure that the return of the taliban does not lead to a large-scale migration movement towards europe. we need humanitarian corridors, we need humanitarian visas. our asylum systems must be ready. my member state, bulgaria, will be one of the first to face the newcomers and i urge the council to start focusing on how to work together as a union, based on shared values and solidarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr kobylus on his report. it presents a long-term strategy for our relations with the russian federation. it is particularly important that it distinguishes between the regime in the kremlin and russian citizens. the recommendations made to the commission and the council in the report are also important. there is no greater threat to european security and values today than the putin regime. my bulgaria, for example, has long been the target of a russian hybrid attack. that's why the country is in a political crisis, destabilization and chaos. the president and his caretaker government impose methods of governance that are typical of the kremlin regime. we're about to have our third parliamentary election in just six months. ladies and gentlemen, i call on you to support this report to prove that we are responsible to our union, to the present and future generations of europe and russia.
mr president, we should welcome and support this long—awaited legislation, and i thank all the teams that made it possible. it is paramount for the eu to become, once again, the most attractive labour market in the world. we want to sustain and develop our social model. we want to build the first carbon—neutral economy in the world and to become leaders in new technology and green innovation. human capital is the only key to achieve it. the economy of the 21st century is all about people and knowledge. the blue card is essential, but not enough for us to be the best labour market and the most competitive economy. we also need to adapt our labour market to the realities of the 21st century in order to become the innovation hub of the next decade, which, by the way, is the only way to fulfil our climate and social objectives.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of a marathon. in the six short months following our proposal on christmas day last year for the brexit adjustment reserve, we have had intensive negotiations between the co-legislators, followed by political agreement achieved in record time through just one political trilogue. my thanks to the european parliament for your constructive approach throughout this very intense process. my special thanks to mr pascal arimont, to pierre larrouturou, to all the shadow rapporteurs. together, we have created a strong and convincing instrument, and this timely adoption means that the first pre-payments can still go out this year. our text today is a balanced compromise, carefully crafted as a concrete expression of european unity and solidarity when it comes to the adverse consequences of brexit. we are sending a strong signal to european firms and workers who are affected most strongly by brexit. europe stands by them. our work here is part of our broad commitment that no region should be left behind, that no european shall be feeling forgotten, not because of brexit, not because of covid, not because of the green transition, not because of the digital transition. we have got to be careful to bring everybody on board. there is one area where we must still do better. the commission is committed to protecting european money against fraud, irregularities and conflicts of interest. this is true for the brexit adjustment reserve, as much as for the cohesion funds or any other support from the european budget. we need appropriate mechanisms to ensure such protection fits for the digital age. i call for swift adoption of the current compromise text. equally important is to put money where our mouth is, which is why the approval of the relevant budgetary resources, and mr larrouturou’s report is so important, so that much needed pre-financing can start flowing to member states. member states are already preparing projects to be supported under the reserve and we are working with them. so there is not a moment to lose in adopting this text. this is our hope and thank you very much once again.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, pascal arimont, has just said it very well: brexit will have many negative social and economic effects on people, on businesses and also on public administrations. i very much welcome this 5 billion euro reserve for adjustment to brexit, because it is important for the regions of europe which are particularly affected by the consequences of brexit. the aim is to help businesses adapt to new border, customs and control regimes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. many companies have had to make heavy, sometimes unforeseen losses. the fishing industry is the most affected sector in relation to the rest of the economy. this is of course a consequence of the reduced fishing rights in the english channel, the north sea and the north atlantic. it is also important for the fisheries sector and for the cuxhaven and bremerhaven areas in my northern german homeland that these funds arrive quickly and without bureaucracy.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i would like to start first by thanking mr arimont and all of my fellow shadow colleagues who worked hard on this file. during the short but tough negotiations, we did experience first-hand just how big an impact brexit is having on the european economy. we saw that the negative effects and the commercial disruptions are unevenly distributed, even among the member states. all of us involved in the negotiations knew from the very beginning that the eur 5 billion would not be sufficient to cover and to compensate for the incurred costs, damages and trade profit losses following the uk’s withdrawal. however, we did manage to find the difficult balance that could help the most severely affected regions and sectors. first, we understood that it was important for the eu citizens to have a longer eligibility period for the funds, and thus we extended it starting from 1 january 2020 to 31 december 2023. second, i’m glad that we managed to agree on the mechanism for compensating the fisheries sector, which was the first one to experience the new reality of the changed borders. finally, the funds of the bar (brexit adjustment reserve) are intended to support eu smes and the self-employed. we managed to include stronger involvement of the local and regional authorities in the management of these funds. despite the reached trade agreement, it is now time for the national governments of the member states to implement support measures locally. we should all adapt to the change with a long-term vision, but the brexit adjustment reserve can provide adequate short—term relief that we all need now.
madam president, we cannot keep using security and fighting terrorism as a regular excuse for surveillance. twenty years ago, after 9/11, the whole world was scared and terrified and was in desperate need to feel safe and secure again. but the revelations in the last year, of which the pegasus scandal is only the most recent one, show us once again the ugly consequences of this. journalists, ngo activists and politicians are being placed illegally under surveillance. not only are democracies at risk, but also our personal freedom, because anyone in this room could fall victim. very soon, we will have a similar debate about the use of ai for security reasons, and there will be again people who will say that we need this tool because we will fight for security reasons or fight with terrorism, or another noble goal. let’s face the reality: it is not being used for these purposes; it is used for undermining democracy, targeting people who do not agree with the government and scaring journalists, and we must never let that happen again.
mr president, agriculture, like the whole food chain, is a strategic sector for the prosperity of the union and for a successful green transition. unfortunately, food systems face a number of challenges today, especially farmers, and the problems are transnational and cannot be solved by one country. we at 'new europe' welcome the union's efforts to be a leader in the process of transforming the world's food systems. it is true that we are far from achieving the objectives, but i would like to stress that a number of farmers are already making serious efforts in this direction. it is important to strike the right balance between ambitions, objectives, measures to support and maintain the viability of the agricultural sector and to ensure fair competition between farmers in the union and beyond. global food demand will increase in the future. it's not enough to simply increase productivity in a sustainable way, we also need to move to a circular economy, which requires a change in our norms and habits. collective change through joint efforts at local, national, european and international levels. the union has already taken an important step in this direction towards sustainable development with the cap reform and the measures outlined in the green transition. i invite the commission to step up its dialogue with international partners to commit and step up efforts to achieve the objectives. i want to see a fair distribution of responsibility so that the agricultural and processing sectors are not put at a disadvantage to other countries. i believe that appropriate support will be provided to the sector to achieve the objectives.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, covid-19 has brought us into a truly new, different reality. the rapid and massive shock of the coronavirus and the measures to contain it have led to a severe contraction of the global economy. the pandemic has become a challenge to preserve the livelihoods and lifestyles of citizens. the crisis has had a negative impact on many sectors of activity, but one of the most significant impacts has been on the labour market. during this health crisis, the priority of the union as a whole was to ensure adequate protection of jobs and workers and their rights. nearly a year and a half after the outbreak of this phenomenon, we still have many questions. how will we help women, who represent 75% of the eu's carers? women are also a majority in other sectors that have remained open during the pandemic, such as retail and childcare. according to eurostat, around 84% of working women are employed in the service sector, which has been hit hard by the crisis. what additional measures will be taken for the thousands of young people who have lost their jobs or are just starting to look for them? commissioner, i sincerely hope that we can also improve the situation of other vulnerable groups, such as the disabled, the elderly and those working in precarious conditions. the sure instrument, through which bulgaria received eur 511 million, was made available to the parties to combat the negative economic and social consequences of the pandemic. was the funds used to good effect? in the context of the green digital transition, many jobs will be affected. we need to make sure that we prepare properly and in time for new forms of work and working conditions. i look forward to your answers.
mr. president, the pandemic has been and is a tragedy that has turned our lives upside down, paralyzed our health and crippled our economy. the consequences will be seen for years if we do not act correctly. some people have been hit harder by the pandemic: children and young people, women, the elderly, people with chronic illnesses and disabilities, seasonal workers, small business owners. it's not enough to give record amounts of money to investments, we have to fight corruption. it's not enough to give money from the union budget if we don't fight the fake news phenomenon. it's not enough to give local authorities funds if we don't tell them how to access them. in short, to combat the danger that lies with poverty and deepening inequalities: the rise of extremism and social conflict, the drift away from european values and the updating of distrust of the union. i ask the commission to act vigorously, with all european citizens in mind. i would point out to the commission that all those who vote in the union want facts, not european bureaucracy, they want concrete aid, not functional programmes. they want to feel better in the european union, not hear speeches. they want proof that we're strong together. we can't just do this from a comfortable office, looking at papers, we have to listen to people, because they carry the burden of the day and know best what they need. we have a duty and a responsibility to help them.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first i want to thank you for this very inspiring debate. i think what we have discussed this evening is about the concrete situations of millions of european citizens, about their pains, about their suffering, about their difficulties and the effort the european union has made to mitigate these difficulties and these pains. although we should not forget that this pandemic has taken away thousands of lives, it’s not the lockdown that took people’s lives, it’s the virus. i want to say – and this has been said by the president very clearly this morning – there is only one way out, and that’s vaccination. the european union has made tremendous efforts to make sure that vaccines are available for everyone and that vaccination is accessible for everybody. we must unfortunately note that very often there is also inequality at that level in our countries. we have to fight for getting as many people vaccinated as possible. we are not yet there. we are good in some countries and we are not good in others. there is a necessity for all of us to make this effort, otherwise we will have to deal with remaining economic, but also social, problems and really also problems of families, which will be plunged into grief, into suffering. i cannot go into detail on all the questions. yes, this has been also a crisis of psychology. that’s right. especially the young have been affected and remain affected. again, we have to help them now to find a new stability, a job. when we talk about a ‘year for the young’ it’s not just a nice formula, but we have to come up with very concrete solutions. everybody has to take the responsibility that the recovery is the recovery for all, and especially also a recovery for the young generation. that’s the meaning of the year 2020, the year of the young or of youth. certainly it’s about people, it’s not about money. but money nevertheless is important, and i just want to mention that one of the first decisions which was taken, on a proposal by the commission, was finally to suspend the stability and growth pact. imagine for one second if this had not been done. by the way, we also introduced very high flexibility in the funds and the use of the funds, the crii 1 and 2, and parliament was very helpful to pass these measures very, very rapidly. so this was also a very important measure to give countries the money to act rapidly and to target the immediate consequences of this pandemic, which was an event nobody could really foresee and expect. fead was increased, for the most vulnerable and the most deprived – and suddenly many people became deprived, even those who never, never expected to be deprived, were deprived. one word on companies. yes, i agree there are also small companies, certain sectors, suffering a lot. but here also measures were taken. all member states were encouraged to support self—employed people, and sure was not excluding the self—employed. some countries did it by the way, and also for small companies to allow them to survive. yes, we will come up with a recommendation on the directive on minimum income next year, 2022, and the idea of a permanent sure is still under study and has not been abandoned.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the hungarian economy is successfully restarting and is able to return to its previous growth trajectory more quickly. the union's economic growth forecast puts hungary at the forefront, with only three eu countries forecast to grow more this year. after the economic downturn caused by the epidemic, already in the second half of this year, the hungarian economy could reach the level of the end of 2019, and by the end of the year it could even exceed it. the number of people in work in hungary today is over 4.5 million, and this is only 50 thousand less than in the same period of 2019. in order to provide a basis for the post-pandemic relaunch, the hungarian government has adopted a budget for both this year and next year that provides the resources to enable the relaunch. the budget provides for both investment and family support, pension increases and social or wage costs. there is no social group in hungary that has gone bankrupt: we have helped families and businesses. in fact, if we can achieve a gdp growth of 5.5 percent, then we will give back to parents raising children in 2022 the tax they paid in the budget in 2021.
the meeting is adjourned and will resume at 9.00 a.m. tomorrow, thursday, 16 september 2021, with the announcement of the results of the second round of voting held today. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
author. – madam president, it is my privilege to present and raise before you this oral question addressed to the commission. on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i chair, the situation goes like this. background in summary: on 2 june 2021, the us administration announced that its department of treasury had sanctioned three individuals and their networks in bulgaria, three bulgarian citizens, on the grounds of engaging in corruption. of course it is a fact that corruption poses a serious risk and challenge to the whole rule of law framework that we have set forth, to economic growth, to the credibility of democratic institutions and human rights for one thing. these sanctions stem from the global magnitsky human rights accountability act, which is in force in the united states, adopted by the us congress, bearing the name, as you are aware, of sergei magnitsky, a tax expert who came up with the exposure of a network of corruption and gross and massive violation of human rights in russia. allegedly arrested on unlawful grounds, in an infamous prison facility, beaten to death in a year. that means that ever since sergei magnitsky was reported dead in 2009, the united states decided to come up with this new us legislation bearing the name of sergei magnitsky, the global magnitsky human rights accountability act, in order to impose sanctions for corruption and gross or massive violation of human rights everywhere, wherever in the world, and it happens that this time it is making an impact on eu citizens, eu individuals, citizens of bulgaria, and thus citizens of the european union. also on the same date, another three former public officials, bulgarian public officials, were designated – that is the term – by the us department of state according to executive order 13818 of the united states, which entails that they cannot enter the united states. of course all of the assets are to be frozen and a number of sanctions entailed with these measures. that is why the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), and in particular the monitoring group on democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights, raised concerns over the consequences of such a us sanctions scheme on the eu approach in the fields of democracy, rule of law, fundamental rights and the fight against corruption which is, yes, a higher priority for all of us. as a follow-up an oral question has been addressed by the libe committee to the commission and that is why we are here, to bring explanations to the following concerns. first, how does the commission view the fact that a third country, namely the united states, considered an ally of the european union for sure, acts on corruption in the eu and its member states? second, how does this change the assessment by the commission of its current approach and in particular of an evaluation of its own actions so far in this matter in the fight against corruption? third, what actions are planned by the commission or what does the commission envisage for a robust approach against corruption at state level? will the commission be more proactive in acting on corruption and threats to the rule of law across the member states? let’s remember that we have put in place nothing less than the rule of law conditionality and the recovery of funds linked to full compliance, of course the values of article 2, rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, but also the fight against corruption, in written debates on resolutions adopted and libe concerns have been raised concerning the fact that the commission no longer publishes this so-called corruption report. i can remind you that your predecessor, cecilia malmström, being home commissioner, set in motion a mapping of corruption across the european union and its member states. yes, that was an achievement, but no continuation, there has not been a follow-up, so our question also touches upon whether the commission would reinforce the corruption monitoring and drawing conclusions and including recommendations in several rule of law reports against corruption? finally, the role of the european public prosecutor’s office, eppo – finally in place, finally there, acting against fraud, corruption, misappropriation, these kinds of cross-border serious crimes, combating corruption – it’s also important that this is further clarified given the need for a coherent eu approach in all in this context. would the commission envisage developing also a common anti-corruption strategy in the eu? are you, commissioner, developing that strategy? are you catching up? i look forward to hearing the commission’s feedback on these issues, important not only for the fight against corruption in itself, but also for upholding union values within the eu, on which we dwell in every plenary of this european parliament.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, mr lópez aguilar, the fight against corruption is our top priority, a priority of this house and of the commission, as president von der leyen made perfectly clear once again yesterday in her state of the union speech here in this plenary. she said that investments that enable our children to have a better future must not be allowed to seep away into dark channels, and she said: corruption is not just taxpayers’ money stolen, it is investors scared off, big favours bought by big money and democracy undermined by the powerful. i could not agree more. as commissioner responsible for home affairs, i might add that corruption enables organised crime. when criminals buy people and buy politicians, they buy power. for all these reasons, we are fighting corruption, tooth and nail. to come to your first question, the united states share our commitment to fight corruption. at the recent eu—us summit on 15 june 2021, both sides confirmed their commitment to defend universal human rights, prevent democratic backsliding and fight corruption. regarding us sanctions against corruption in any eu member state, let me say this. the eu does have strong concerns about the us imposing sanctions against eu nationals, especially without prior consultation. it is for the eu member states to carry out criminal investigations against those responsible for corruption. the eu and us have strengthened their cooperation on sanctions and can discuss potential concerns in the framework of this dialogue. the second part of your question has regard to the fight against corruption. to start with, we are fighting corruption as a criminal threat. as europol’s serious and organised crime threat assessment shows, 60% of criminal networks engage in corruption. as decided by the council in may, fighting criminal networks that spread corruption will get special emphasis under the european multidisciplinary platform against criminal threats (empact), the instrument for eu internal security cooperation. the fight against corruption is also a key priority under the commission’s new eu strategy to tackle organised crime. we are protecting those who expose corruption. by the end of this year, member states must implement the whistleblower directive. this directive protects whistleblowers in both the public and the private sector across the eu. the commission supports member states in their fight to root out corruption. we have set up a new rule of law mechanism. we are closely monitoring the fight against corruption in an intensive dialogue with member states. the commission has already adopted two eu rule of law reports, annual reports that address systematic threats to the rule of law, including corruption. as president von der leyen announced yesterday, we will introduce specific recommendations to member states in next year’s rule of law report, which will make the mechanism stronger and sharper. the country chapter on bulgaria in this year’s report highlights the us sanctions under the us global magnitsky act, targeting certain bulgarian citizens for committing acts of corruption, including a former member of parliament. next year’s rule of law report will follow up on this issue as appropriate. since 2007, the commission has been monitoring bulgaria under the cooperation and verification mechanism. that is the instrument to assist bulgaria in judicial reform and the fight against organised crime and corruption. bulgaria is making progress but will need to turn commitments into actions. any decision on ending the cooperation and verification mechanism will take into account the position of the council and of this house. president von der leyen also made clear yesterday that the commission will leave no stone unturned to protect eu taxpayers’ money. the commission will make full use of the new conditionality regime. we can, and will, impose measures on member states for breaches of the rule of law that undermine the eu budget. every single euro of the recovery and resilience facility must go to the recovery of our member states, to the economy and health care, and not a cent must end up in criminal pockets. the commission will prevent misuse of recovery funds by checking if member states’ internal control systems are up to the task, and we will fight abuse of recovery funds by carrying out risk—based controls and audits. the european public prosecutor’s office is up and running and can investigate and prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences affecting the union’s budget, including corruption. when the commission assesses potential breaches of the rule of law in the member states, we will take effective and timely cooperation with the european public prosecutor’s office into account. the european public prosecutor’s office will also cooperate with authorities of third countries. in fact, it already has established communications channels with us counterparts. the commission will do what it can to support this cooperation. yesterday’s state of the union speech once again made clear that the fight against corruption is at the top of our agenda, and i know i can count on you to join us in this fight.
for the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, the united states is the solution to corruption in europe. apart from the fact that this is somewhat unusual coming from a close ally, what does this say about the ability of the european union and its member states to fight corruption effectively? is the european union failing in this area? i listened carefully to what the commissioner said and i am very pleased with her speech. we've done an awful lot in the area of, of course, the prosecution, the establishment of the office of the prosecutor, the strategy. i believe that we should go further, for example by creating a genuine european police structure in the sense of europol as an organisation that will be managed and thus fully enabled to operate in the member states of the european union. and can the european union with corruption also effectively tackle not just the small fish but the big ones? the problem of the czech republic, but not only the czech republic and a number of other states, is the conflict of interests not only of the czech prime minister, but also of other persons who, as a result of the abuse of their position, receive a large amount of not only national but also european funds. conflict of interest is, at its core, institutionalized corruption. i am concerned that the european commission, in a situation like this, where corruption is at the highest level, is able to fight it effectively. it sends a kind of unfortunate signal, when nothing is resolved for a long time, that the law, or if you want to say regulation, only applies to some. there's a saying that a small net catches only small fish, the big ones break it. i'm very happy about what the commissioner said. i hope that the european commission will do its utmost to ensure that the rules apply to everyone and that corruption cases do not have to be dealt with from the outside, as in this case by the united states.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, at the beginning of june, one member state, bulgaria, was shaken by sanctions imposed by the us administration on several bulgarian citizens for corruption and influence peddling. bulgaria this year became the country with the largest sanctions imposed in one day under the magnitsky act. bulgarian citizens are very aware of the problems of corruption in the country. bulgarian citizens protested against the takeover of the country's judicial system, against rigged public procurement and corruption, and when they did, they were beaten and humiliated, threatened and dragged through courtrooms. today, commissioner, on behalf of all bulgarian citizens who are waiting for answers from europe, i would like to ask you the following: bulgaria is being monitored in the field of justice and home affairs and despite the availability of all the instruments, no report has so far found the things that the us authorities are talking about. why would you do that? the commission's report is a report on the implementation of the single act. critics, however, are overly cautious as the us openly speaks of systematic bribery of high-ranking officials, including a sitting political leader. who is this political leader, commissioner? let me be clear, i am not calling for european sanctions, but for efficiency in your actions so that we can identify problems and help member states like bulgaria to overcome them. so my second question is: did the european commission have information similar to that which the us administration has released? if no, what action has been taken by the european commission to establish the facts? because if the information given by the american authorities is correct, then we have a serious problem with the rule of law in the european union. not just because of the situation in bulgaria, but because it seems that our tools are not effective. but if what the us side has said is not true, how should we respond to protect the image of the european union and the leading role of the member states in this field internationally?
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, your efforts and desire to put the issues of waste of european funds and corruption in european countries at the forefront of the agenda are commendable. but what's a little bit more puzzling to me is that you're finding this kind of corruption all the time these days, only in countries, or mostly in countries, whose governments you don't like or whose policies you don't like. these are the eternal conquered bulgaria, hungary, poland, slovakia. they're the bad guys, they're the corrupt guys, everyone else isn't, they're clean as a whistle and they've never smelled anything corrupt. is that so? of course it's not. your honor, is there anyone in this room who thinks there could be corruption with european funds at the local level? that here those who are appointed and elected by you, commissioners and inspectors, have no idea what is happening in the member states and there are just bad people stealing the money without us knowing? is that so? it's not because either you've appointed the most inept, the most incompetent, the most helpless people in the world, or those people close their eyes when it comes to the corruption of friendly governments that implement federalist policies, policies to protect the various communities that are being invented every day, and so on, and so on, and so on. suddenly, it turns out that corruption only exists in bad countries, not in good ones. mrs. weld, you said you were coming to bulgaria. you're always welcome to come. we'd love to see you there, but to learn about corruption in bulgaria, you don't need to come to bulgaria. what you need to do is ask your own group a few questions. ask, for example, what does the expression "i distribute the portions, i distribute the portions" mean. and find out who said it, mrs. in't weld. it'll help you a lot to understand these processes. as for the american state, yes, the americans have a right to let or not to let anyone they want on their territory, but i will remind you all, however, that even the european convention on human rights in its article 6, paragraph 2, if i am not mistaken, says the following thing: "everyone accused of a criminal offence is innocent until proven guilty by a conviction that has entered into force". so be careful with the lists, because today one person makes them, tomorrow another one makes them, and then things can get bad. corruption is proven in court with a final verdict.
madam president, dear colleagues, the credibility of the fight against corruption can only be preserved if it’s not misused for political purposes. yes, corruption is an existing problem in our member states, and yes, all member states should step up action against it with all available means. but this should never become the tool of political power games. it is hard not to see how the us all of a sudden felt the need, just before the bulgarian elections, to intensify its fight against corruption there. how interesting. let me underline that this house should never use the fight against corruption as a weapon in politically motivated rule of law debates. to the members who like to pose in this house as rule-of-law warriors let me say: if in a democratic election, your opponent wins that’s not corruption – it’s democracy. this house in particular should refrain from using actions against corruption to interfere in democratic elections, because the moment this happens, it will no longer be about the upholding of the law. on the contrary, it will diminish public trust in the democratic process, and it will diminish the credibility of the fight as a whole against corruption.
madam president, commissioner, these individuals were sanctioned by the us government on grounds of engaging in corruption. and this is a dire testimony for the complete failure of the bulgarian state in fighting corruption over the last 12 years. and since we are talking about a eu member state, this failure is also a european one. even more worrying is the fact that bulgaria has been under direct monitoring by the commission since its accession in 2007 with regard to the fight with the corruption and organised crime, and just two years ago the commission concluded optimistically that bulgaria has been successfully fighting corruption and has shown real progress on all the benchmarks in the cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm). now, one of these simply cannot be true. either the us treasury is terribly misinformed about the real situation in bulgaria, or the commission has kept its eyes wide closed for many years now. and there is no doubt that the bulgarian citizens know the truth about what is happening in bulgaria. for years, the commission has published joyful reports filled with bureaucratic clichés about the state of the rule of law and corruption in bulgaria, and this has caused two things. firstly, it cemented the corrupt borissov’s government in power, as he kept bragging about the great support he had in brussels, how close he was with important people here, and how much money brussels was giving to his government. but also, it fuelled the desperation and the euroscepticism of the bulgarian citizens, because they kept asking themselves: why is brussels silent? don’t they see what is happening here? the oligarchy is getting richer and fatter with the european money. how could the commission let that happen? so my question is: how can the corruption be spotted all the way from washington but somehow be missed from brussels? and how can we claim that the eu is a global player if we cannot clean our own house?
in writing. – the sanctions under the global magnitsky act, imposed by the us authorities (ofac) on several bulgarian persons, are unprecedented in the history of our union. they clearly show that the anti-corruption mechanisms in bulgaria are inefficient at best. what is more troubling, they are a clear reminder that the eu mechanisms for guaranteeing the rule of law are not effective. bulgaria is subject to two monitoring mechanisms by the european commission and one by the council of europe. yet, the central problem with the failure of the prosecutor general and his office to fight political corruption persists. judiciary reforms are stalled at the 2015 level. the overall deterioration of the institutional framework is ongoing. the persons sanctioned by the us authorities seem untouchable in bulgaria. all 14 investigations against ex-mp delyan peevski have been dropped; no investigation against zhelyazkov has ever started; none of the charges retained against vassil bozhkov is for corruption. colleagues, we all know and agree, that us sanctions have no legal force in the eu whatsoever. but hundreds of thousands of bulgarians, protesting corruption and for judicial reforms, rightfully wonder why the eu is so silent about problems clearly visible from across the ocean.
mr president, the questions raised by the committee are all very pertinent, and we will be very curious – i’ll be very curious, of course – to hear all the answers to them. because the requests for more transparency, for access to the full details of vaccine contracts, do not stem from some conspiracy or scepticism. transparency is vital for public trust. in this age in which disinformation and propaganda is flooding social media, the only antidote is clear information and transparency. people have the right to information, especially when it comes to sensitive topics like health. without this access, there can be no accountability and, without this, we have fertile ground for misinformation and even lies. not long ago, we were debating in this room the difficult start of the eu vaccination campaign, when a certain company was failing to deliver the doses it said it would provide in its contract. those doses never arrived. the commission went to court for them. and while we’re all relaxed now, because it seems that the eu has more vaccines than it needs, we were not so relaxed some months ago. it may be easy to forget that we are still missing some of these doses, even though they have already been paid for with eu citizens’ money. we need to learn our lesson from this very unfortunate contract. what happened? did someone make a mistake? what went wrong? why was there a problem with this contract and not with the others? because it’s clear that there was a problem with this contract, and it was not as tight and clear as it should have been. the commission had to reach a settlement with the company. nevertheless, the joint public procurement of the vaccines undoubtedly turned out to be a success, as the eu managed to provide enough doses to its citizens. if we want to repeat that success in the future, we need to learn our lessons now, and this can only happen if the commission is open about its work and the contracts it signs. trade secrets cannot be an excuse.
the agenda includes the report by petar vitanov, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on artificial intelligence in criminal law and its use by police and judicial authorities in criminal matters (2020/2016 (ini)) (a9-0232/2021).
rapporteur. – mr president, the eu regulatory framework needs to catch up with the technical developments. the use of ai has been growing exponentially and this brings the question as to what we, as co-legislators, are doing to safeguard the fundamental rights of european citizens. ai is not a product in itself, but it’s a method, it’s a tool, and, as such, it needs to be conditioned to the overarching goal of improving the well-being of our citizens. the technology holds great promise if it’s developed and used in an ethical and trustworthy manner, but at the same time, it implies considerable risks for fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law. as co-legislators, we bear enormous responsibility towards european citizens. we need to draw clear red lines for ai—based systems that violate fundamental rights. if we are serious about safeguarding people’s safety and well-being, we need to include in the future legislation that can possibly ban or prohibit applications of ai that are incompatible with fundamental rights. technical progress should never come at the expense of people’s fundamental rights. it’s not a question of whether the ai systems have the potential to result in racially biased and discriminatory outcomes. we actually know for sure that this is the case. we see the confirmation of this in the data provided by multiple ngos. we saw it during the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) mission to washington last year, and, just a couple of weeks ago, we heard it from the un high commissioner for human rights. and no, ai is not dangerous only when used by autocratic governments. where the technology is flawed, it is flawed no matter who uses it and for what purposes. the good intention does not justify the means. there have been numerous cases of people being treated unjustly because of ai, such as being denied social security benefits because of faulty ai tools, or even being arrested because of flawed facial recognition, and somehow i’m not surprised that the victims are always the poor, the immigrants, the coloured or the eastern europeans. the american civil liberties union demonstrated to the us congress in may 2019 that the error rate with facial recognition of coloured people is higher, basically leading to de facto discrimination. they described facial recognition technology as unregulated, dangerous, racially biased and often untested. using facial recognition in public areas may interfere with a person’s freedom of opinion and expression simply because of the fact that the protection of group anonymity no longer exists if everyone in the group could potentially be recognised. this could lead to those individuals changing their behaviour, for example by no longer participating in peaceful strikes or demonstrations. predictive, profiling and risk-assessment ai and ultimate decision—making systems target individuals and profile them as criminals, resulting in serious criminal justice and civil outcomes and punishments before they have carried out the alleged action for which they are being profiled. i always thought that this could only happen in the movies! in essence, the very purpose of the systems is to undermine the fundamental right to be presumed innocent. colleagues, i really hope that we can have a serious debate and i’m looking forward to it, but i’m pretty confident that we will place fundamental rights before technological progress, and even before security, because there cannot be any security without freedom.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the police and judicial sectors are not exempt from technological developments, and among these, artificial intelligence is a new and powerful technology. the use of this tool has proved to be a real asset in certain criminal investigations, the fight against terrorism or border control. for example, in the horrific case of the paris attacks on november 13, 2015, it was in part thanks to this ai and facial recognition technique that investigators were able to identify, locate and arrest the alleged terrorists. however, its use must of course be subject to strict control. the use of such equipment should be limited and proportionate, and should always be subject to human supervision. there must be real transparency in the technologies used, and democratic and above all judicial control in their use, to avoid any bias and to ensure respect for fundamental rights. ladies and gentlemen, the use of artificial intelligence in criminal cases can be an asset for criminal investigations and for european justice. let us not deprive ourselves of this, while respecting fundamental freedoms.
mr president, thank you, commissioner johansson. i have to go. it was necessary for parliament to consider the application of artificial intelligence in criminal law and in criminal matters, even though this is a sensitive issue. we need to seek the balance between security and freedom when social or technological circumstances change, and the fact is, they have changed. there are no magic solutions for complex cases, but the police or the judiciary must be able to use technologies that avoid some of the impunity of the most sophisticated cybercrime or terrorism when it has very serious objectives and has enormous resources. because impunity would also be a degradation of the right to justice that society and, very specifically, the victims have. now, the technology is so powerful, so powerful, that the enabling of certain measures, such as facial recognition, should only be done under strict judicial oversight. it is essential that the privacy of individuals be preserved in a general sense and even some other safeguards. i personally have doubts about the moratorium on paragraph 27, but i have no doubt that we have to continue to work on the basis of this report, which will shape our political position, and that the aim must be to have very fine-tuned rules, with a large, strong consensus, a very large majority in this house.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear honourable members, i would like to thank you very much for this debate. many of you have raised serious concerns on important aspects of artificial intelligence, and i have listened very carefully to your interventions. i will try to answer some of the issues that have been raised in this debate. first, on mass surveillance. i said it already in the beginning, and i completely agree with all of you that have raised this: there’s no room for mass surveillance in the eu and in our societies. and we have already strong safeguards in place, and the ai proposal from the commission will add additional ones. eu data protection rules prohibit, in principle, the processing of biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, except under very specific conditions. the conditions are clearly laid out in our acquis, the gdpr and the law enforcement directive. this ensures that the use is proportionate and respects the right to data protection and provides for fundamental rights. further, the ai act includes the prohibition of real-time remote biometric identification in publicly-accessible places by law enforcement authorities, with very narrow expectations and strong safeguards. the ai act follows a risk—based approach: the higher the risk, the stricter the rules are. the majority of ai applications are used for purely administrative purposes like translation systems or workflows and do not pose any concerns and require no regulation intervention, while other-use cases, for example the profiling systems used to detect or investigate a crime, or to identify a person remotely, are qualified as high-risk. many of you have also raised the concerns of facial recognition. facial recognition is of outstanding importance for law enforcement to identify perpetrators of victims of crime, not just in publicly-accessible spaces but also in the online environment. such systems are in operation, and they save lives. i have to note that the accuracy of ai technologies is 10 times higher than non-ai technologies, and the overall accuracy of such systems has significantly increased in the last years. in addition, we should not forget that each potential match must be confirmed by the experts before action is taken. let me be clear: artificial intelligence is not allowed to make decisions to break into a person’s home or to arrest a person. of course not. ai is a necessary tool to help human beings in law enforcement to make the right and timely decision. it’s necessary with safeguards: the more intrusive effects, the stronger safeguards are necessary. i’m very glad that we all agree that we need a european approach and a common european regulation based on our values. finally, i would like to say don’t put the protection of fundamental rights in contradiction of protecting human beings and protecting societies. it’s simply not true that we have to choose. we are capable of doing both. to be able to do so, to find the right balance, we need this kind of open, free democratic debate like we have this evening here in parliament. let’s continue that debate together to protect both societies, lives and fundamental rights.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am also happy with this debate, because we agree on two things: the benefits of ai in law enforcement on one hand, and, of course, every single colleague here mentioned human rights, fundamental rights. well, of course, there are divisions. there are definitely two groups. the first one, to which i belong, says that we keep fundamental rights by not letting the use of the unreliable application of ai in order to keep the fundamental rights, and the other group says, and they are convincing us about the conditions of the use of the same unreliable applications in their intentions to protect the unconditional human rights. of course, it’s a political choice. my choice is simple. i urge you not to reject all of the amendments tabled, because they will significantly alter the spirit of this report. but of course, if you prefer the second option, please try to convince that single mother that works 12 hours a day in a poor neighbourhood because she cannot afford to live in a better neighbourhood, in a fancy neighbourhood, raising her own children, that her children are potential criminals, or try to convince the poor, the coloured, the immigrants, the foreigners that they are potential criminals only because the ai says so. is this the world that we want to live in? is this the world that we want for our children? will we be able to sleep freely at night? to be honest, i cannot.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, as rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs opinion on this very important report, i will use the opportunity to very briefly present the most important among our long list of suggestions. if i am to put it in one sentence, it would be: make lifelong education accessible and affordable, open the labour market, and provide for independent living. most people with disabilities are full members of our societies, not only by virtue of their equal rights, but also by virtue of their same abilities to learn, to work, to develop and to provide for themselves, their families and their communities. the only thing they need is an equal chance for development through independent living, and i’m afraid here is where we fail as member states, societies and the union, or at least that’s what their petitions show us.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. after the election of joe biden, there were high expectations that the transatlantic relationship would improve quickly and efficiently. but unfortunately, these expectations have not been met so far: aukus, uncoordinated withdrawal from afghanistan, no progress in reducing tariffs. it is true that the united states is our most important strategic partner. but partnership requires trust. and i think both the european union and the united states are called upon to do so. we have common interests and we should focus on them, particularly in the context of cooperation within the newly created technology and trade council. for example, in semiconductor manufacturing, we have gaps in supply chains. i think it's very, very important that we work together here to close the gaps in the supply chain, to ramp up production. for example, digitisation: creating new rules together for ai, for the platform economy and so on. and of course our relationship with china: i think we need to work much more closely together strategically there too. last but not least, mr sikorski has spoken about it. i think the time is now, the time to work on a common european defence union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the election of mr biden the united states has turned the page, abandoning unilateralism and bringing the debate back to the multilateral level, albeit with a non-uniform attitude, let us think for example of the afghan situation, which re-launches the need for european strategic autonomy and defence. but there are many issues on which we can work together. i am thinking of climate neutrality by 2050, a key point on which to re-establish our transatlantic relationship. i think of the issue of rights, the recent anti-abortion law passed in the state of texas, which represents a step backwards for women's freedom, an issue on which we in europe are also continuing to work and fight. i am thinking of the digital issue, the regulation of artificial intelligence and the transatlantic flow of data, a really crucial and complex issue. well, we have a lot, a lot to do, and i hope that the european parliament and the american congress can work together to design a more sustainable and fairer future for our planet.
mr. president, today is a good day for europe, because we are discussing a strategy for our relationship with the united states of america. the future of the free world does not presuppose the existence of strategic autonomy within it. we and the united states must continue to be strategically dependent on each other and expand and deepen that dependence. that's what bothers our opponents the most. the strategic unity between the european union and the united states is for the good of human civilization. we need to increase nato's role as the foundation of our collective defence. only with a common strategy and coordinated policies can we protect global democracy and fight against authoritarian and dictatorial regimes.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, open borders, free movement and free trade are our strength and the foundation of our prosperity, but they also pose serious health risks, as we have all seen in the current pandemic. but these risks have been there before. it's enough to track the movement of hepatitis, the rise of tuberculosis, new unknown viruses and bacteria, or the ever-increasing infections with antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which we talked about in our last session. and last but not least, the link between these infections and cancer and cardiovascular disease. separately, health risks related to pollution, accidents and natural disasters also do not recognise national borders. all these risks are common to the union and are beyond the capabilities of individual national health systems, irrespective of national competence in the field of health. the new health emergency response body hera should work in close coordination with the civil protection mechanism and the ecdc, as well as, of course, with national health authorities. above all, we must also take into account its ability to aggregate a unique database of the problems of half a billion european citizens and thus contribute to the prevention of cross-border threats, but also to scientific and technological breakthroughs on a global scale in the fight against not only infectious diseases but also cancer and cardiovascular disease.
madam president, when the volcano continues to roar with force and the lava rivers continue, it is difficult to talk about anything other than survival and recovery. and recovery is what the island of la palma needs in all areas, including tourism. the canary islands as a whole need the certainty that the european union must guarantee and la palma in particular urgently needs, in addition to funds, a genuine recovery and tourism promotion plan. we are talking about the end of the summer season and the balance of the actions of the union in relation to the covid certificate and the resumption of flights during the summer season. but we also have to talk about the winter season, because for regions like mine, the canary islands, the autumn/winter season is the real high season for tourism. when the cold comes to the rest of europe, temperatures in the archipelago do not drop below twenty degrees. the canary islands are a region which, with over two million inhabitants, received 15 million tourists each year. covid-19 has destroyed the sector and we are far from being able to recover its pre-pandemic figures. we can't afford the slightest uncertainty right now. the canary islands are a privileged and safe destination. and tourism, an industry that powers all the other industries. just as the european institutions have been criticised for their inability to manage and support and renew their industrial and tourist modes, we should welcome the creation of a european tourism agency, whose headquarters would be no better located than the canary islands. i hope that, with the efforts of all, tourism will continue to be the real economic engine of the canary islands, and in la palma in particular, a guarantee of survival.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, tourism is a very important issue for the european union, because it accounts for more than 10% of the union's gross domestic product and is a major source of income for almost every member country, and the damage that the tourism sector has suffered in the face of the pandemic is unprecedented in nature and scale and cannot yet be compensated for. the european digital certificate has made travel within the european union somewhat easier and has helped to overcome the initial chaos caused and provoked by the various unilateral decisions of the member states, but it cannot solve all the problems. i therefore believe that it is time for a serious assessment and analysis of the measures taken so far by the commission. we need to know what we've accomplished so far so that we can develop the right policies to recover and to fully overcome the consequences and insure against future risks. each member state should make a similar assessment. only then will we know how effective we have been in our measures to facilitate travel and financial support for smes and those employed in the sector, because we need to know where we are going and where we can go.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. what's most surprising about this debate is the surprise that energy prices are rising rapidly. how can they not grow? it would be a miracle if they didn't grow. of course, the unpredictable weather, speculation in ets emission allowances, dependence on russian gas supplies, which is used as a political tool, all contribute to this. but the most important reason is our politics. it has long been clear that climate and energy policies will lead to higher prices. the goal of this policy is to increase the price of energy from fossil fuels, so it's going up. we can congratulate ourselves that it's starting to work.
madam president, bulgaria closed four nuclear reactors under pressure from brussels - that was a condition for joining the union. today the commission is asking us to close our coal plants, to do so in the midst of the price crisis in the energy market that is just beginning: a request that we cannot fulfil without condemning people to poverty and businesses to bankruptcy. the current crisis in electricity prices is the result of an ideological approach to the economy. he's shutting down nuclear power as dangerous, he's crossed out coal as a polluter, he doesn't like gas because it makes us dependent, but he doesn't offer a sustainable alternative. the green deal seeks to compensate for years of neglect of nature with unrealistic timelines for transforming societies and economies. i strongly support the idea of a european set of instruments to control price rises without breaking the rules of the single market. as a staunch advocate of green transition, i would say that it will only happen if it is realistic, flexible and social, otherwise it risks being a door to the abyss and a drug for the enemies of democracy.
- what? the chair, madam commissioner, colleagues, soaring energy prices have shocked businesses and made many families wonder if they'll be able to pay their bills this winter. this is turning them into energy slaves, and the european union cannot guarantee its citizens one of the most basic and important public services at an affordable price. and this is especially true in my country, bulgaria, where people have had serious difficulties paying their bills, and energy poverty is five times higher than the european average. it is obvious that the market is not in a position to regulate itself. in the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy, such shocks will be more than expected. the energy transition requires an institutional and common energy policy of the union to ensure a level playing field in the conclusion of contracts with third countries. but above all, the european union needs to change its attitude towards nuclear energy and to see it as a green base power contributing to its energy independence.
i think i was a little careless myself, and my colleague got a lot more talking time than he did. i apologize for not paying attention. i didn't mean to.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, you have printed two trillion euros to rebuild the european economy. i think you did this as a form of blackmail. you're trying to impose the green deal economic model on us, and it's actually so insane that it caused an incredible spike in electricity prices. but let's not forget that the commission is demanding that we close the mines and the power plants. at present, they produce almost 50% of bulgaria's energy. isn't it strange that you talk about recovery, but at the same time insist on destroying our economy, raising people's bills and threatening our energy security? in fact, the social effect would be just as tragic. i've said it before, the miners won't become ballerinas, they'll just become unemployed. that's why i urge you to forget the learned phrases of the pseudo-protectors of nature and think about the needs of people and business. bulgaria needs rapid development of infrastructure to support small and medium-sized enterprises, business modernisation and digitalisation of administration. these are the measures that are needed.
madam president, commissioner, the poorest country in europe, my country, bulgaria, which is also the most affected by covid-19, has not yet submitted its recovery and resilience plan. three successive governments and three parliaments, blocked by electoral panic, even refuse to clearly inform citizens what the reason for this delay is, to explain where the problem with decarbonization measures is, to explain what measures they dare not inform citizens that they should take in the field of judicial reform and the rule of law. but the recovery and resilience plan is not for governments, it's not for parliament, it's for citizens, it's for businesses, it's for those affected by the pandemic, it's for industries that need support in the process of upgrading to a green economy and green energy. the lack of such openness on the part of the government, including after the deposit of the plan and during the negotiations on it, can only be compensated by you, mr commissioner, only by the commission. it should speak to the people and explain what governments are hiding from them. it should inform the people who really expect support and need support from this plan, what the reason is that it cannot even be submitted with a six-month delay.
mr president, mr minister, i listened very carefully to your speech and i must say that i am not convinced of the reasons why the council is postponing this decision or why it has completely blocked the discussion of such a necessary regulation. we are talking about real problems with the use of european funds. i am also the chairman of the national association of municipalities in the czech republic and i have to tell you that these are real problems faced by those who are supposed to benefit from european support and european money. i'm very sorry that we found the tool, and the council blocked it, and it has no justification for doing so. so please really acknowledge that this is a real, real problem that's affecting counties, communities, businesses, all of those who live in those border regions. and it is these border regions that should be the model for our european support to improve their quality of life. so i'm asking you, minister, to move this issue forward. i don't know what the council is so protective of. why she's so incompetent or why she's incapable of moving on. and i would very much like you to launch this regulation, because it is really in the interest of the european citizens.
mr president, you have the last word, but i think you have seen very clearly the unanimous and unanimous call from all the political groups and all the member states that we expect the blockade to be lifted and that we can enter into constructive talks in the interests of the border regions. we look forward to your summary statement.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, i fully agree with you about the importance of the cross-border cooperation and removing the administrative burdens for the cooperation of bordering regions. there were, let’s say, words that the council did nothing for the two years or even more. let me just refresh the memory. examination of the ecbm regulation by the working party on structural measures started with an orientation debate in october 2018 and due to the complexity of the nature of the file, the austrian presidency requested the council legal service to further scrutinise the dossier. the council legal service opinion was delivered under the croatian presidency in march 2020 and the legal opinion was critical towards the commission proposal. then the german presidency organised the follow up discussion on the legal opinion of the council legal service, where the delegation was asked for clarification and questions of the various issues touched upon in the opinion. the german presidency also held an in-depth and inconclusive discussion on possible ways forward on the ecbm proposal. during the portuguese presidency an assessment of the possible way forward was presented to the delegation, including whether the legislative work on the commission proposal should continue and, on 10 may, the structural measures working party decided that the council would not continue to work on ecbm proposals. so, discussion took place during six consecutive presidencies and the final decision was taken, so the slovenian presidency inherited this decision. there was a statement that the legal service of the council issued an opinion that is debatable. since the legal service opinion is publicly available on the council’s public register i will not go into the technical details and only highlight the key elements, but allow me as well to remind you that the legal service of the parliament also adopted its opinion and the opinion tackles the same points as the council’s legal service opinion. let me just outline several important issues of the council legal service opinion. first, the mechanism, as proposed by the commission, would confer bilateral agreements concluded among certain authorities of the member states, the legal effects which are specific to european law. this would place the autonomy of the eu legal order in jeopardy, since those agreements would be taken away from the control of the eu legislator or the court of justice. second, the material scope of the proposal is not defined in a sufficiently precise manner and, as a consequence, risks undermining the exercise of other competences and policies of the union. this would affect the institutional balance as laid down in the treaties. then the scope of application of the proposal also generated problems regarding cross-border cooperation with third countries since it would impinge on the way member states negotiate and conclude agreements with third countries in matters that are not of exclusive eu content. last, but not least, the possibility of voluntary participation in the way it is currently laid down in the proposal, is not compatible with the treaties. no opt-outs are allowed from cohesion policy under the treaties. any instrument based on the third subparagraph of article 175 should apply uniformly to all member states. this is from the legal opinion. the interreg community is a very active community, always exchanging best practices and common challenges to find the best solution. in that sense, i can reassure you that member states are very aware of the analyses and studies available on cross-border obstacles. and yes, the slovenian presidency is fully aware of the importance of cross-border cooperation. therefore, we are carefully analysing the special reports of the european court of auditors. we are currently examining and preparing council conclusions on eca special report 14/2021 on interreg cooperation. the potential of the european union cross border regions has not yet been fully unlocked. the council conclusions should be available by the end of this month. – gospod predsednik. spoštovane poslanke, spoštovani poslanci. najlepša hvala za vaše pripombe in enotno stališče evropskega parlamenta v zvezi z interregionalnim sodelovanjem. dotaknili ste se zelo pomembnih vprašanj. teritorialno sodelovanje je eden od najbolj prepoznavnih rezultatov evropskega povezovanja in morali bi ga nadgrajevati. ključno je poiskati pravo ravnotežje med pristopi od spodaj navzgor in spoštovanjem nacionalne suverenosti. vso pozornost in podporo moramo nameniti lajšanju vsakodnevnega življenja državljanov in državljank evropske unije na obmejnih območjih. prav tako se globoko strinjam, da je med pandemijo covid-19 postalo očitno, kako soodvisne so države članice in regije evropske unije. dejansko je pandemija nesorazmerno prizadela ravno obmejna območja. v celoti gledano pa me veseli, da imamo skupen cilj – okrepiti potencial obmejnih regij evropske unije. to bo lažje že zaradi regulativnega okvira za programsko obdobje 2021–2027, saj je posebni cilj v okviru programa interreg za boljše upravljanje sodelovanja izboljšanje možnosti, da bodo v okviru programov interreg za čezmejno sodelovanje dejavno obravnavane posebne obmejne ovire. prav tako ne smemo pozabiti, da je skupna zavzetost najmočnejše orodje za premagovanje ovir. kadar lokalni organi na obeh straneh meje delijo politično voljo za premagovanje upravnih in pravnih ovir, je vedno mogoče najti rešitev. že brez evropskega čezmejnega mehanizma so bili pripravljeni zelo zanimivi projekti, ki ste jih sami v današnji razpravi večkrat omenili. uporabimo torej vse naše izkušnje in poskušajmo na podlagi dela, ki so ga opravile institucije, ugotoviti, kako lahko prispevamo k izboljšanju razmer v obmejnih regijah in umaknemo administrativne ovire, s katerimi se tovrstni projekti srečujejo. hvala za pozornost.
mr minister, thank you very much. i expect and - if i may make a final request - i would ask you to convey the unanimous opinion in this debate to the relevant council working party. we are not going to stop at the question of crossborder cooperation and its improvement, and we must do everything we can to improve it. i therefore ask you to convey this basic sentiment, which was expressed in all the speeches, to the working party and to find a way of resolving the issues raised, even if it is with a new proposal that addresses the concerns of the legal services. the debate is closed.
the sitting will be closed at 9.45 p.m. today, not now, with the end of the second round of voting, and will resume at 9 a.m. tomorrow, 7 october, with the announcement of the results of today's round of voting. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. i wish you all a good evening.
the next item is the debate on the report by elena yoncheva, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for asylum and repealing regulation (eu) no 439/2010 (com (2016) 0271 - c8-0174/2016- 2016/0131 (cod)) (a9-0392/2021). i would remind members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words or acceptance of blue cards in any of the debates of this session. as in the past, there will also be secondments from the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. the proposal was submitted in may 2016 as part of the legislative acts to reform the common european asylum system in depth. however, despite intensive negotiations under the previous parliament, the work was not finalised. the draft regulation was submitted to the new parliament and negotiations resumed under the mandate of the old parliament. after a series of negotiations at the end of june, we reached agreement with the council at a political level on the entire text. this agreement marked a historic moment in the reform of the common european asylum system, laying the first cornerstone of the new system. with this agreement we have succeeded in proving that reform itself is possible. this is very important, because over the years we have heard many sceptical voices trying to prevent reform and condemning solidarity. the common european asylum reform is indeed possible. the negotiations have not always been easy, but we have continued to explore new legal possibilities and new compromises. and most importantly, we focused more on what unites us. i would like to stress a few very important points in the context of the compromise text. the 2017 agreement has been fully preserved. asylum liaison officers will be deployed in each member state to assist the national authorities on the ground and monitor the situation on the ground, in order to ensure that eu assistance is delivered in time. the agency's expert assistance will also be taken to a new level and the agency will be able to deploy asylum support teams. the agency will also have a reserve of 500 experts at its disposal. this will ensure that there are no further delays in the provision of the necessary support. the agency will carry out tasks to support relocation and resettlement. the new regulation takes the protection of fundamental rights to a higher level. there will also be a human rights officer and strategy, and a constitutive forum with civil society. but more importantly, there will be a brand new complaints mechanism so that any reports of fundamental rights violations will be sent directly to the agency. cooperation with the united nations high commissioner for refugees and civil society will be strengthened. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the agreement reached guarantees the establishment of a strong european asylum agency, capable of providing adequate support. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their passion and constructive work. i would like to thank the last three presidencies, in particular the portuguese and german presidencies, for their leading role in the council. and of course, a word of appreciation to commissioner johansson, whose personal dedication has been of the utmost importance. we, the three institutions, have succeeded together.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking an important step forward with this agreement on a new european asylum agency. the signal we're sending with this establishment is not to be misunderstood. we are showing solidarity with the member states on the front line, but we are also showing solidarity with those who need protection. the epp remains committed to the creation of a sustainable, fair and harmonised asylum system for europe. the european asylum agency is an important first building block in this process and will make a tangible difference for member states, both under normal conditions and when under pressure, in four ways: the first. a large pool of experts will enable member states to rely on increased operational support and technical assistance to make faster and fairer asylum decisions; the second. it will also effectively improve the protection of persons seeking international protection by enabling more efficient asylum procedures to be applied; the third. it will close the gaps between member states and bring about greater convergence in reception standards. this will alleviate the disproportionate pressure on some eu countries; 4. other finally, the agency will also play a crucial role in improving european asylum and migration management by facilitating the exchange of information on migration movements. in a nutshell, the agency will strengthen cooperation between member states and third countries, thereby also contributing to solidarity between member states and the overall external dimension of the eu. the compromise on the eu-asia agency also gives me hope because we can finally make progress in the negotiations on the migration pact. the european parliament will continue to urge member states to negotiate constructively this reform package for a stronger and more efficient eu migration policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. flight and migration will remain at the top of our agenda for the coming years, not in spite of corona and climate change, but primarily because of corona, because of climate change, because of increasing violence, because of increased conflict readiness on our planet. we are still struggling as the european union to achieve a new, genuine common asylum and migration plan. this is a disgrace! and we still do not have a common foreign, security, defence and development policy. today, however, we can rejoice in a small step of improvement. the european support office will become a full-fledged agency for asylum issues. it offers legal, operational and practical support to all member states, from training for faster and better asylum procedures to cooperation on resettlement, and indeed on joint control and monitoring. but there is still much to be done. we must not lose sight of the big picture and of our values. there can and must be no two-way street in the european debate on refugees. we need help on the ground, a secure external border, but above all we must guarantee the right of asylum to those who are fleeing persecution, terror and violence. the agency for asylum issues is an important building block. let's use this opportunity to finally eliminate the other construction sites and contribute to solutions. europe finally needs a new, common, determined asylum and migration policy, which is firm and based on our common european values and on full compliance with international and european law.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for today’s fruitful exchange, and again i want to thank the rapporteur and the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies for this achievement. during the ten years since its establishment, the european asylum support office has developed into a true centre of expertise and is a key actor in the field of asylum in europe. the adoption of the eu asylum agency regulation will considerably reinforce its mandate and give the agency a solid legal base to provide the technical and operational support to member states. this guidance and support are needed much more in a situation where political instability, economic hardship and climate change continue to trigger major displacements worldwide and migration towards europe. this is another key step forward on delivering the pact, and it shows that the eu can compromise on migration and asylum. let this inspire us.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this constructive debate. this agreement took ten presidencies of the council, but it has become a reality today. i look forward to the vote at one of our next sessions. this agreement is a first step, but we also need to ensure that the new mandate is implemented as soon as possible and that all new opportunities are used to the maximum. i am convinced that with the agreement we are responding very effectively to the ever-growing expectations of support on the ground. i am confident that with its enhanced function and new mandate, the asylum agency will become a leading agency, taking asylum support to a new level. today we must ensure that the agency receives the human and financial resources it needs to comply with its new legal framework, because we need a really strong agency, and we need it now. once again, thank you for your support and trust. today, ladies and gentlemen, we are laying the foundations of solidarity in europe, because the countries at the front line, such as bulgaria, greece, italy, malta and spain, cannot shoulder all the responsibility on their own. i hope that we will soon see similar agreements on other asylum-related issues and that by the end of this parliamentary term we will have fully reformed the european asylum system, a system of asylum that we deserve.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the 'farm to fork' strategy is a very important tool that has the potential to completely transform the model of food production, processing, supply and consumption in europe, making it more sustainable. we cannot help but notice that this change is causing anxiety among farmers. i am speaking from this platform to the commission with the requests and concerns that the bulgarian farmers have shared with me. they want to be part of the green transition, but they need clear rules, reduced red tape, adequate funding and more information to plan their activities and investments. i call for all measures and future initiatives related to this strategy to be based on a preliminary comprehensive impact assessment covering economic, social and environmental sustainability. particular attention should be paid to cumulative effects, including possible undesirable effects. the green transition must be fair to farmers and not jeopardise their competitiveness.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i have said many times that the culture sector has been hit the hardest by the pandemic. theaters, concert halls, and all the rest of them closed first and opened last. hundreds of thousands of artists and industry workers were left without jobs, and aid came in spades. that is why i was very pleased that we had started this report on our own initiative. i don't think we've talked enough about the problems of culture, though. i thank the rapporteur, mrs semedo, and my colleagues in the shadows for their work. together we have been able to reflect on many of the issues that surround culture and the arts. i'm so glad you paid special attention to copyright, thank god. to be recognized and protected, i think, is a sign that we care about artists. they were a supplemental source at the time. but to my great regret, certain left-wing policies have crept into the report that have no place in culture and the arts. i refuse to support a text, however good, if it only favors certain groups based on race, gender and sexual orientation. art is art, excuse me, but he only cares about the creative element. let us not forget, colleagues, which political regimes dictated these things in the beginning and only complied with them. and that's why i've brought in an alternative text that is balanced in favor of everyone in culture and art, without gender and affiliation, no matter what it is.
mr president, madam president, mr prime minister, i do not recognise poland, which joined the european union in 2004 and which i had the honour of welcoming as mayor of strasbourg. poland, which aspired to freedom and democracy, and which you have splendidly recalled, madam president ursula von der leyen. mr prime minister, your country joined the union voluntarily and democratically and ratified the treaty of lisbon in 2008. the constitutional tribunal's judgment is not a court decision. many said it was a political act of your party. to dissociate yourself from the judgments of the european court of justice which prevent you from continuing to put judges, free media and your opponents on the bench. i invite you, mr prime minister, to listen to your people, who are demonstrating throughout the country to express their attachment to europe; the european parliament has been asked to hear the 22 former judges of the constitutional tribunal and the ombudsman marcin wiącek, who have condemned the decision. the poles are a great european people whose values and aspirations cannot be betrayed by a populist government. my group and i will continue to campaign for this without end.
president, madam president, mr prime minister, by declaring articles of the eu treaty incompatible with the polish constitution, poland was set on the path to a polexit. that is not just an attack on the poles, it is a threat to europe as a whole. european subsidies should not and cannot flow to countries whose governments mock the rules of the club and even openly deny them, as you do here today, prime minister morawiecki. it is not fair to the other member states and it is certainly not fair to the poles who do not want it themselves. the debate on the respect for the rule of law in europe is at a standstill. the question is: what's next? i remain convinced that we must continue to call on the european commission to use all the instruments at its disposal: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but political differences cannot be resolved by lawsuits alone. that is why i am also opposed to the european parliament taking the european commission to the court of justice. a dispute between institutions would weaken the political pressure we can now exert jointly. today we are sending a clear signal to the polish people that europe is behind them. 88% of poles want to stay in the eu. more than a hundred thousand people took to the streets last week to show their support for a european poland. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of moldova. but it is also up to our european leaders to cut this difficult political knot.
mr president, madam president of the commission, mr prime minister, mr morawiecki, you have launched an attack on europe, an attack on the very foundation, on the values of the european union: equality, freedom, human dignity. you consider that it is possible to abolish democracy while remaining in our european family. there's only one word to describe this situation, mr. morawiecki, and that's shame. yes, the european commission can deprive poland of important funds from the european budget. but europe is not just a source of financial flows. cooperation between states is based on mutual trust. authoritarian regimes are already emerging in europe, based on the judiciary they control. the european commission can no longer remain silent. it has lost valuable time because it has failed to detect the warning signs of these authoritarian governments: the slogan of national sovereignty, the takeover of the media and companies, the destruction of civil society... poland and hungary are on that track. in bulgaria, the former prime minister has established an authoritarian regime, the consequences of which will be difficult to bear. we, the citizens of europe, do not deserve this. we must act, madam president, and we must act now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's been almost six years since the world's nations made a landmark climate agreement. that's when they met in paris. now they'll meet again soon in glasgow. i'd like to remind them of something, because how much can you forget in six years? for example, the agreement was that we would put a global price on co2. we haven't done that yet. it was also the agreement that we would give 100 billion dollars a year to the green transition of the developing countries. we're only up to 80. it was also the agreement that we should stick to a temperature increase of one and a half degrees. we are also meeting our climate targets in the eu. if the world's leaders have been losing their memories since 2015, then research teams have been reminding them regularly that we need to do something now. and i hope that, especially the most polluting countries in the g20, are ready to take important steps towards that in glasgow. for example, they would do well to set a date for when all fossil fuels - including natural gas - should be completely out of the picture. we can't stand here in six years and wonder why we didn't do something when we had the chance.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, cop26 is another milestone in the race against time to combat climate change. the european union is a benchmark in glasgow for what it has done and for the strategy it has defined for its future. the horizon europe framework programme, in particular the new generation of partnerships with industry, is an example of this. several of the areas covered are of crucial importance for meeting the set targets: decarbonisation of industry, biodiversity and the circular economy, hydrogen, aviation and rail. we know that it's not enough to change behaviors or set goals. only with innovative solutions will we succeed, solutions that reconcile the green transition with job and wealth creation. but we also have to renew our ambitions. we need, for example, to make the full transition to clean and affordable energy, investing in new solutions and enhancing existing ones, in particular renewable energies. all of this requires increasingly heavy investment in science, technological development and innovation.
mr president, i read somewhere that climate change is the biggest crisis multiplier: raising the thermometer arrow leads not only to more natural disasters, but also to more inequality, more emigration, political instability. it is clear that the european union must set an example not only with its climate neutrality goals, but also with the social cost of achieving them. but the real fight against climate can only come when global security issues are resolved. because nobody thinks about climate and pollution when they're waging war or preparing for war. did you know that a military plane uses 10,000 liters of kerosene in one hour, the same as the entire life cycle of a family car? or did you know that 10 to 15% of america's emissions during the cold war were due to the military? so let's not be hypocrites in front of cop 26. the european union can help in the fight against climate change by actively participating in the de-escalation of tensions between the united states, russia and china.
mr. chairman, in recent months we have witnessed alarming financial scandals. the sanctions against bulgarian citizens under the magnitsky act and the massive revelations of abuses in the pandora files, which include a number of european and bulgarian citizens, show that the problems are international in nature and that europe must act with a common effort. the new draft legislation proposed by the commission to combat money laundering and terrorist financing in the european union is an essential step. the creation of a single european supervision is essential, but it is also good to rely on the use of technology in actively combating these problems. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of consumers against money laundering. but my question is, shouldn't we be using technology more effectively in the fight against financial fraud, and how exactly do we do that?
mr president, ireland joined the eu in 1973, forever changing our country for the better, economically and socially. we have graduated from being a benefactor to a contributor and we are proud to do so, as the rising tide lifts all boats. having benefited hugely from being a part of this union, we embraced enlargement of the eu – provided, of course, that candidate countries share our values and meet the necessary conditions of membership. the eu was founded on respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. earlier this week, we debated the rule of law crisis with the polish prime minister. it should be clear to all that eu membership comes with not only far-reaching benefits, but also responsibilities. discussions with our close neighbours in the western balkans have been ongoing for some time now. i warmly welcome the slovenian presidency’s efforts to ensure these discussions progress in a meaningful way. progress is both in the interests of the citizens of the western balkans and in the strategic interest of the eu, and offers the perfect antidote to brexit. it is positive to see the western balkan countries renew their commitments at the western balkans summit, to carry out necessary reforms to closer align to eu standards. each is at a different stage of the journey, and it’s important that eu support and dialogue continues while tangible progress is being made. it was good to see the cooperation between the eu and the western balkans in the face of the covid-19 crisis. three million doses have been provided to the western balkans, with more to come. the eu is the region’s closest partner and principal donor, and i look forward to the strengthening of relations and, most importantly, the setting of a projected accession date for these countries of great potential.
(the beginning of the speech is not heard) ... to be resolved. but before we talk about the problems, i'll tell you where there are no problems. there are no problems with either the language or the identity of north macedonia, this issue is regulated in the 2018 good neighbourly agreement. there are problems with our shared history, with discrimination, with human rights, with the use of hate speech. to make you understand, i'll just say this: on both sides of the argument, there are two political parties with the same name, fighting to divide our common heritage. the only solution is a constructive, substantive and intensive dialogue between the two sides, without pressure from the european union, because it creates anti-european sentiments. we are quite clear that this dispute is damaging both to north macedonia, the region, the european union, but also to bulgaria.
mr president, i hear the cry of those who speak in the name of europe, as if it were their own, to better chastise the behaviour of each other. so let us be clear: yes, all eu member states, including poland, must respect the commitments and not deviate from the fundamental principles of the rule of law. when you sign a contract, you honor it. when you have the chance to belong to europe, you have the duty to preserve its values. but i say it with equal force: being a member of the european union does not mean giving up one's free will. in our countries we have a constitutional identity which gives us the legal, but also the political, authority to act in the interests of our peoples. especially when it comes, for example, to overcoming the shortcomings of the european union, which is clearly incapable of effectively protecting our borders. to try to make it seem that defending national interests would be contradictory to the european project is, frankly, to make fun of the world, to make fun of the peoples and to use europe for political purposes. let us never forget this truth: sovereignty, before it belongs to the nations, before it belongs perhaps only to europe for the federalists, it belongs to the people. let those who love to teach moral lessons never forget that. otherwise, tomorrow's awakening, and perhaps even ours, may be brutal.
mr president, commissioner, it is true that frontex is one of the most important agencies of the european union. its budget shows, as mrs bricmont said, a rise from 6 million in 2006 to 343 million in 2021. this shows the importance that the european union attaches to an agency such as this, but also shows an extension of its tasks, today, in the field of migration policy. so, quite simply, we are exercising our parliamentary role of budgetary control here, in connection with the legal obligations of such an important agency. why should we be lenient with this agency? any agency would be affected by such mismanagement and all of us here in this house would vote against the discharge. no... because it is frontex and because it is about politicizing the budget debate we have. and it's not the left that is politicizing this debate, it's the right and the far right that is politicizing this debate. frontex is an agency today, as has been said, which is out of control and we as parliamentarians cannot accept that. these failures were demonstrated by the libe committee in its report published in july. these malfunctions were confirmed by the court of auditors. these malfunctions are being investigated by olaf. what more does it take on the right to question what is happening today at frontex? developing a catalogue of good intentions, madam commissioner, is not enough. today we want real human rights guarantees and effective and transparent monitoring mechanisms in this agency. we're not there yet. these guarantees do not exist and we shall therefore vote against this discharge.
mr president, since 2014, 3 250 000 illegal persons have crossed the external borders of the european union illegally, not counting legal migrants. in 2019 and 2020 alone, 887,000 foreigners were ordered to leave the european union, but 675,000 of these were never carried out and new migration routes are opening up, including to the canary islands and from belarus. the only bulwark against this flood of migration at european level should be the frontex agency, but all your efforts are to denigrate it. to justify your immigration ideology, you invoke an alleged lack of transparency or violations of fundamental rights. but the most hypocritical thing is that you have the nerve to say that frontex's action is ineffective when you keep putting constraints on it. you're the one who refuses to fund the anti-migrant fences that 12 european countries are demanding. you are the ones who support, finance, invite, honor the ngo smugglers who go to the libyan coast to find illegal immigrants. it is you who spread, at every opportunity, an ideology without borders and it is you who prosecute all those who oppose your thought, calling them racists. in the face of your hypocritical obstruction, our proposals are simple and pragmatic. the expulsion of foreigners must be carried out systematically. asylum or residence applications must be processed outside the european union, in the consulates or embassies of the countries of origin. finally, we must provide financial, legal and moral support to frontex by massively developing semi-autonomous maritime surveillance and by accepting the financing of the construction of the barriers and therefore the borders that the states are demanding from you. the states, i remind you, must be free to choose who is allowed to return to their own territory and who is not.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you all for this debate and thank you for your interventions. i think this debate shows how important the debate about frontex is, but also shows the very important role of the european parliament. this debate has also shown that we have the same goal of a fully functioning and robust agency with a strong governance and fundamental rights framework. i’m very grateful for the extremely active role which the european parliament has played and is playing. there has been progress on the transparency register, on the fundamental right strategy, on the process for the appointment of the deputy directors – the management board is meeting today – and on the fundamental rights officers. but there are also clear gaps. the discharge decision is the responsibility of this house, and i look forward to your vote. we need a robust agency with strong governance that can help member states to protect the european union’s external borders and the european union’s fundamental rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the debate on the report by dita charanzová, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/103/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 16 september 2009 on insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and the enforcement of the obligation to insure against such liability (com (((2018) 0336 - c8-0211/2018 - 2018/0168 ((cod)) (a8-0035/2019).
rapporteur. – mr president, today we will take an important step, an important step towards making our roads safer, a better insurance system that protects victims of accidents, including when an insurance company goes bankrupt. today, we start the process to end discrimination – discrimination of eu car owners who move from one member state to another, so experienced drivers are no longer treated like they just turned 18 years again. today we end the uncertainty around our motorsports in europe, who will be able to keep racing. today, we prevent over-regulation that would have harmed the uptake of e-bikes and could have made even wheelchairs subject to a law designed for cars and trucks. overall, this is a good day for all vehicle users in europe and for anyone who unfortunately finds themselves injured in an accident. these are concrete examples of europe taking concrete actions for our citizens. on average, there is one car for two europeans. vehicles are a huge part of our lives and will continue to be. while our hope that our citizens never have to use their motor insurance, they should know that it will work if they need it. i’m proud to have been part of this effort. concretely, if you have an accident and your insurance company or the insurance company of the other person goes bankrupt, you are protected. every member state must have a compensation fund that will ensure compensation for injured parties as if your insurer was still active. the european parliament also made sure that you should receive your compensation as soon as possible, within weeks instead of years. soon, you will see also a harmonised claim history statement across europe. there will no longer be any excuse to discriminate against a driver coming from another member state. so if a czech driver moves to france, even if his or her statement is in czech, a harmonised form will ensure it is understandable. the boxes will be the same throughout europe. in addition, parliament also ensured that if an insurer offers a discount for good drivers that you are also entitled to the same discount – no matter your nationality. your clean driving record will be universally understood and valued across europe. we have also ended the dark cloud over our motor sports in europe. for years, it has been unclear what the insurance requirements for racing vehicles were. for many motor sports, especially amateur competitions, to require a full motor insurance would have been their demise as either no one would sell them the insurance or the price of that insurance would be beyond all reason. after today, it will be clear – while a competition must have insurance to cover spectators and other third parties, there is no european requirement to have full motor insurance on each racing vehicle. this means the viewing public can keep going to the race track on fridays in our cities and towns across europe and have a good time. they will be protected and motorsports will stay legal in europe. lastly, citizens can feel free to go out and buy e-bikes. there is no european requirement for motor insurance on e-bikes. while many should take out voluntary insurance, others can continue to be covered by other types of house or family insurance. but you can feel safe that buying an e-bike will be easier than buying a car or truck. these and many other items within the directive are examples of the european parliament applying common sense, common sense to our motor insurance rules. we listened to our citizens and what they wanted and we delivered. however, citizens should know that a european directive can only do so much. how these reforms are now implemented is in the hands of the member states. so, i can only hope that member states will use the tools we have given them in the law to make sure that the common sense parliament has shown is mirrored also, at national level. just because you can require insurance on anything with an engine or wheels, doesn’t mean you should. let me end by thanking everyone who had a hand in this process and in this success from the european commission, especially commissioner mcguinness, to the croatian, german and especially portuguese presidencies who worked with us over some very technical details of this file and found this good and very successful compromise. let me also thank all my shadows, their assistants, but also the imco secretariat who kept this file alive and a special thanks to my assistant, andrew hillman, who was vital at every stage of this negotiation and who lived this file with me during the last more than two years.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, firstly, my deep appreciation for the work of vice-president charanzová and all of her shadows. and can i say i really appreciate your common sense approach. and indeed, if you look back on the history of the motor insurance directive, the first one was adopted in 1972, and for nearly 50 years it has enabled vehicles and motorists to travel freely across the european union using the same compulsory insurance. but above all, the directive protects the victims of accidents. we have made a number of improvements to the directive over the past five years, and the text we agreed at the end of june is another important step towards improving the rules. the negotiations were long, in part because of the pandemic, but i believe we have reached a good compromise, which will have significant benefits for the people you represent in this house. it means that citizens will be protected if their insurer becomes insolvent. policyholders that move to another member state will have their claims history assessed in the same way as residents of that member state. in other words, people can take their no-claims track record with them if they move to another eu country. and most importantly, european citizens who are victims of an accident will receive timely compensation for injuries or damages. finally, clarifying the scope will improve legal certainty for victims and policyholders. colleagues, i wish you all the best for the vote today, and i hope for the adoption of this revision of the motor insurance directive.
for the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to also comment briefly on the compromise reached on the revision of the motor insurance directive. it is four years since the commission presented this initiative to parliament, and i must say as shadow rapporteur, having followed and participated in the whole process, that it was an extremely difficult process. and i want to say - and i stress this - in no way formally, but very strongly - thank the rapporteur, mrs charanz. the situation was not easy. we really went back to different points many times. she has done it with great nobility and bravery and therefore she deserves a great thank you, not just a social, formal thank you, but a real thank you. if it weren't for her work, i'm afraid the compromises that were involved wouldn't have been of such high quality. i also anticipate our position as a political group, as the european people's party. we are very pleased with the compromises that have been reached after such difficult negotiations over many years. we are convinced, as the rapporteur has already said, that the new form of the directive will make life much easier for european citizens and motor vehicle owners who simply use their vehicle cross-border or move to another european country. that means there are clear benefits. on the other hand, at the end of the negotiations, there is a compromise that is not too bureaucratic and does not unnecessarily burden or bully european citizens. it was said that there is or was a group of small motor vehicles which were eventually excluded from compulsory insurance. i think that is the very common sense that the rapporteur was talking about. the same rules have been made clear in sport, motor sport, insurance insolvencies. all of this has been described and i very much welcome the final form and recommend its approval.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear ms charanzová, first of all, i would like to thank you for the hard work and also to thank all the fellow shadow rapporteurs who’ve been working hard on this file and our respective teams. in may 2018, the european commission proposed to amend the motor insurance directive in five main areas. the first one was the insolvency of the issuer, where it was proposed to create a mechanism ensuring compensation of injured parties in case of insolvency. the second area was the right of the policyholder to obtain the statement of their claims issued in the past five years. the third was to introduce checks against insured drivers. the fourth was to set up an obligatory minimum amount of the cover provided by the insurance policies, where the member states could add up and require a higher amount on a national level. and the final area was the clarification of the scope of the directive in line with the recent court of justice of the european union rulings. the negotiations on the file were marked by the covid—19 pandemic and lasted almost two years. however, i believe that together with my colleagues, we did manage to achieve several important changes in the interests of all the eu citizens. we, as s&d, did manage to deliver on several key priorities. the first one i would like to mention is that compensation to road accident victims is guaranteed even in case of the insolvency of the insurance company. this will ensure that we would not allow legal chaos to happen, even in the case of bankruptcy of any given insurance company. each member state is required to set up a body to compensate the insured injured parties for damage caused by vehicles when there is insolvency of the insurer. a second s&d priority that we fought very hard for was to exclude the new forms of sustainable transportation solutions like e—bikes and scooters from the scope of the directive. we believe that only by using such innovative solutions can we reduce the greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the carbon footprint. therefore, we need to encourage by all means necessary, the usage of such alternative transportation solutions, and they shouldn’t be in the scope of that directive. finally, another important aspect for us was the claim history statement. insurers should not treat their policy-holders in any discriminatory manner based on their nationality or based on their previous member states’ residency. we don’t believe that this should be tolerated or find any place in the directive, and we managed to achieve that. in that matter, i would like to urge you to vote in favour of the outcome of the trilogue because the eu consumers deserve a well—functioning single market that does not discriminate them but provides fair compensation for all.
mr president, what we see today is the true face of the putin dictatorship and the true face of his friendship with mr erdoğan, whose puppet in this situation – only a puppet – is mr lukashenko. and i hope that the self-proclaimed european patriots and the guardians of christian values see the true face of their idol mr putin today, because i see the name of lukashenko mentioned, i hear the name of erdoğan, but i hear a big silence from the far right when mr putin has to be mentioned too. of course we see a human tragedy today, but we see a human tragedy deliberately and cold-bloodedly provoked by two tyrants: a tragedy we need to face together with compassion to the baltic states and poland, and with compassion to the victims on the frontier, of course.
in writing. – the analysis in the commission’s action plan on intellectual property highlights the importance of intangible assets such as trademarks, designs, patents and data in today’s knowledge-based economy, especially with regard to job creation, economic growth and the higher remuneration of employees. creators’ and inventors’ remuneration should be protected from ‘buy-out’ contracts by big platforms, while not blocking innovation. this is why the european parliament calls for the strengthening of intellectual property rights in a way that contributes to the social and sustainable development of the eu. better employment, better salaries, more stability and resilience, especially for smes seizing on the potential of their intellectual property, represents an important link between intellectual property rights and social policy. we need to create an eu toolbox against piracy and counterfeiting in order to ensure coordinated action between intellectual property rights’ owners, intermediaries and public authorities. the action plan on intellectual property also needs to ensure proper and equitable access to medicines and medical treatments, including during health crises by resorting to voluntary or mandatory licensing in use of the wto’s trips agreement.
in writing. the report we are considering is extremely important for the eu's economic recovery and resilience, but this report is not about that alone. i would remind you that i am the author of an opinion of the committee on culture and education in which i tried to contribute to a more holistic approach to intellectual property rights. as an artist with many years of experience, i am well aware of the problems that people in the sector face on a daily basis and that intellectual property rights continue to be one of the most serious unresolved issues in europe. unfortunately, culture is only present in two places in the report. it noted that artists are heavily affected by the covid-19 crisis, and in paragraph 38 expressed regret that illegal content is being broadcast on the internet. the added value that intellectual property has for the european economy cannot be underestimated. we have to make it clear that the overwhelming majority of workers in the cultural and creative sectors somehow own intellectual property rights, or something like that. i think that the report presented in this way has not paid enough attention to them, has not pointed out the weaknesses, has not acknowledged the needs of artists and cultural workers. something that, as a member of the artists' guild, is unacceptable to me.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure).
mr president, those who survive cancer must not be punished twice. insurance companies or banks should not deny cancer survivors who have beaten the disease access to financial services such as mortgages, or ask for additional and higher insurance premiums. cancer survivors deserve the right to be forgotten. we must ensure that the right to be forgotten for cancer survivors is embedded into eu legislation to prevent discrimination and to improve the access of cancer survivors to financial services. it is time for europe to act on this issue and resolve it once and for all so that european cancer survivors, no matter their postcode, are not discriminated against.
mr. chairman, on sunday the bulgarians will vote for president and parliament. seven million european citizens hope to close the page on corruption, lawlessness and authoritarianism. the sad fact is that the borisov regime, which has marked the last 12 years, was made possible by the uncritical patronage of the european people's party and the condescending attitude of the commission to his sins. the bulgarian media was anesthetized with european money, and european leaders were helpfully playing the role of extras in the bulgarian autocrat's photo shoots. for 12 years, the commission has been blind and deaf to corruption scandals and electoral manipulation. the mechanism of judicial review and control has become a tool of a political support situation that has even deepened the rule of law crisis. today bulgaria restarts its transition from autocracy to democracy. i hope the european commission will reconsider its errors and this time show empathy for the citizens.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank once again both co—rapporteurs for this report, which is a very important contribution for the commission at the final stage of the preparation of the electoral package. as i said before, we are now working on the package to finalise it for adoption on 23 november. so, i can confirm again that i see very broad common ground, which will be reflected in our proposal. common ground with the report which we are discussing today, and i want also to thank all the members of the house who contributed to this debate. so, i am looking forward to the adoption of the report and to discussing this file further with this house once the college adopts the proposal.
the rapporteur. madam president, just a few remarks on the reflections that have just been made by the speakers who have preceded me to this podium. firstly, i think we can all agree that it is important to avoid abuse and to do everything we can to prevent it. the authority in place will monitor the grain and, where appropriate, national courts and the european court of justice will be able to rule in the event of disagreement. secondly, i have heard someone here say that this is an attempt to put the eurosceptic parties on a pedestal. let us be very clear: if a party does not agree with the decisions taken by the majority of the european legislator, that is to say the council and the european parliament, it is its most basic right. this is not a reason for excluding party funding. thirdly, if someone says that the co-rapporteurs and the commissioner are not very funny and that they are the gravediggers of democracy. this is not very pleasant either, but it is not a reason for excluding party funding either. the parties must tolerate a great deal in order to contribute to a democracy that is as pluralistic as possible, but there are certain limits. and i would like to invite the speaker who said that we are prepared to put the eurosceptic parties to the test to consider the following. if there is a party which tolerates within its ranks nazis who openly profess this ideology, who incite hatred against minorities, do you not think that at that time the authority responsible for allocating financial aid to parties should be alerted and face its responsibilities? and again, if a decision were to be taken which was not in accordance with the wishes and expectations of the complainants, it would still be possible to appeal to the national courts and the european court of justice for a decision. one last word. this report is not a report which could advocate transnational lists - personally, i am in favour of them and i am very much in favour of them, i am a federalist - but this report does not impose federalism or full respect for the principle of establishing a transnational list. it is the european parliament, together with the council, which will decide on this issue later and our colleague domènec ruiz devesa is responsible for this report in the committee. i thank you for allowing me to make these few corrections and thank you, of course, for all the constructive contributions that have just been made in the context of this debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have had a very astonishing debate: approval in principle, but on a central point - the honourable member mr goerens has just touched on this - on a central point all the speakers in the debate have been playing around - namely on the subject of abuse, grab and run, which is only possible thanks to the current funding of political parties by members of parliament. and it is quite astonishing that mr lacapelle, who then left the chamber and did not listen to what was being debated here, mentioned one member who upholds the importance of democracy, but that it is precisely those members who, if we were to draw up a ranking of those from whom parliament has most to recover funds for abuse, would be those members he mentioned, those former members, at the top. and that's why i'm advocating for a voice-based approach in the future. that's the only major disagreement we have. it may not work in this paper now. but i also want to announce for my group that the opposite is true, that we give more leeway to the parties, that we have less control over the silent approach, that we reduce own resources from 10 to 5%, that this is already a package for us and that i cannot yet guarantee in a corresponding legislation that the epp group will also participate in the other part of the consideration if one part of the consideration is dropped.
in writing. we must recognise that european political parties and foundations have a long way to go before they become more than a vague concept for european citizens. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the union's policy on the protection of the environment. the commission, which will draw up a new regulation, must take into account that the rules on the eligibility of expenditure are too strict and that european parties should be able to finance a wider range of activities. for example, european parties should be able to get involved in campaigning for referenda in member states on eu-related issues. brexit is a painful lesson that we need to learn from. cooperation with national parties and political groups in the european parliament should also be encouraged as a way of getting closer to citizens. moreover, citizens should have access to information on the financial situation of parties, including donations, to the greatest extent possible and in an easy-to-use manner.
we now move to the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting for a stronger european union, for a union which remains united in the face of challenges and difficulties. your support for the new european asylum agency is support for a more efficient, supportive and united europe. the new regulation will mark the beginning of the reform, if necessary, of the common european asylum system. today's vote ensures that a european asylum agency is in place that can provide adequate support and is equipped to meet the challenges on the ground. ladies and gentlemen, we have spent many hours debating how to solve the problem of migration, how to update our legislation, how to guarantee a future asylum system. after all this debate, we can't just talk. today we must act and finally contribute to real reform. thank you for your support. together - i am sure - we can achieve a new asylum system. let's do it today.
mr president, commissioner, millions of european union citizens are constantly travelling, changing jobs and conditions in order to earn a living and feed their families. very often they work simultaneously in different countries, for different employers, for different working hours. very often they combine work as self-employed persons or as owners of micro-firms with work as employees in commercial companies - employers. very often, in tens of thousands of cases a year, because of the chaos of different laws and regulations in the different countries of our union, these people lose their pension and social rights or at least the rights associated with part of their working life. the draft european social security number largely answered these questions. i'm afraid the project that's being presented to us now is perhaps a good start, but a very, very small step in the right direction, far from the good start that was made with the project for a universal social security number years ago.
madam president, thank you to the commissioner for being here. we are in the middle of the economic and social crisis now, and i don’t think we speak enough about the european smes, which are the driving force of the european economy because they represent about more than 60% of the eu gdp and more than 100 million jobs. so they’re responsible for our economic and social integrity. the current crisis is still not over, and the european small businesses need immediate measures in order to prevent any further negative effects happening to our economy. any future legislative proposal should focus on reducing administrative burden and providing liquidity and better financing. and, last but not least, we have to help the eu smes from all over the member states to work together and to cooperate, in order to cope with upcoming changes and still to remain competitive on the global economic market.
mr president, commissioner, i believe we have achieved a great deal. we have agreed on a new model of cap based on results and implementation. the structural modernisation of the cap successfully and in a balanced way combines economic, social and environmental ambitions and objectives. a 'new europe' has done much to shape new, more efficient eco-schemes, and has fought to protect farmers' opportunities for decent incomes and to ensure better control of spending. i am pleased that some of the main priorities of my spd party are included in the new cap, namely a fairer distribution of direct payments to small and young farmers, more funds for organic farming and the preservation of transitional national aid. now national governments need to do their job well and take advantage of the flexibility we have given them to develop measures and target funds according to the specific needs of the sector. i am concerned about the lack of transparency and dialogue in the process of developing bulgaria's national strategic plan. the future of agriculture in this country depends on this plan. the deadline is approaching, and farmers still don't know exactly what's in it. it is important to launch the new cap and avoid uncertainty for the sector. farmers need to be involved in the planning process, informed and prepared to make a successful 'green transition'. fellas, let's take the next big step, let's support the agreement to give the sector the stability it needs.
mr president, commissioner, the glasgow climate pact is progress in achieving the union's objectives to combat climate change. however, i am disappointed that not all countries share this sense of urgency and shared responsibility. climate change and its negative consequences are not a european problem, but a global one. i certainly support the high ambitions we have set, but that cannot happen if other countries do not follow. moreover, i am concerned that the differences in climate ambition between countries inevitably have an impact on the conditions of competition and, consequently, on business and citizens. policies, actions and measures should be based on the latest scientific research and best practices. they should be adequately budgeted, specifically designed to be inclusive and ensure that citizens and businesses are not the ones paying the price.
mr president, the deal agreed in glasgow is not perfect. compromises never are, but it is a positive step forward, so much better than no deal, and the next cop27 will bring further opportunities. the targeted reduction in fossil fuel usage and increased funding for developing countries are really welcome, and to quote alok sharma, the president of cop, we have action on ‘coal, cash, cars and trees’. it kept the paris climate agreement alive, and we now have a pathway to reducing climate impact and keeping global warming to less than 1.5 degrees; that is, to protect the lives and the livelihoods of those that are on the frontline of climate change. there won’t be immediate changes, but we will influence how government action will transfer into real changes and we do need to change. standing still is not an option. we will see fundamental changes in how we live, how we operate and how we consume. and we need to bring people with us. communication is going to be so important on this journey and we need to listen. otherwise, there will be difficult times ahead for us in implementing the challenges of reducing our climate impact on our economies and our lives and on our livelihoods.
mr president, that is correct. after the cop in glasgow, we can say that the 1.5 degree ceiling has been maintained and is still the global ambition. but at the same time we must admit that we still have a lot of work to do in terms of the commitments, the measures and the decisive policy that should have been agreed. that means - and that is an important message i want to give today - that we need to take our own responsibility more than ever and that the 'fit for 55' package must not only stay afloat but, above all, become even more ambitious. i have heard too many times, including in this house, that there are doubts about this package. i don't think we can afford that. solidarity must be at the heart of our group's policy, and that means solidarity at the international level in our trade policy, and not just setting a good example, but also sharing our technology, for example, and ensuring that there is sufficient international funding to make that policy a reality. i think that's a very important task that we have to do.
mr. chairman, mr. vice president, glasgow will go down in history as the first meeting where there was open discussion about the harm of fossil fuels and that they should no longer be subsidized. over 100 countries, national governments, cities, states and major car companies have signed the declaration for zero-emission cars and vans. and india, china and russia, the biggest polluters, have all pledged to go carbon neutral. but the fight against climate change cannot be effective as long as we allow the richest to pollute the most and the poorest to pay the bill. the problem of inequality can and should be addressed through environmental policies. change should not happen on both sides of the divide between developing and developed countries. critical financial support for vulnerable countries was lost in the final hours of the glasgow negotiations, and without it, 'green' policies will once again divide the world into the privileged and the disenfranchised.
mr president, due to the efforts of the late president of poland, lech kaczyński, the principle of solidarity and energy security has been enshrined in the treaties, confirmed by the ruling of the european court of justice on the opal pipeline. it is a mutual obligation provided in the association agreement with ukraine as well. yet nord stream 2 violates all of those obligations, further emboldening russia to blackmail us with energy prices and to mount armaments on ukraine’s borders. we have to remain firm and stand together in fulfilling the six calls of the european parliament to halt this project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures provided by the commissioner are figures which, on the one hand, represent a major victory, namely the significant increase in electricity produced from renewable sources, by 38%, which for the first time produces a greater result than fossil fuels, at 37%. but there is another fact which we must not forget, namely the fact of dependence on energy produced outside europe. the highest figure in the last 30 years, 61% of energy used in europe but imported from outside. this means that we cannot have the illusion that the increase in renewable energy production coincides with greater autonomy. the figures show the exact opposite, and so we must always consider, in our energy mix, not only the energy produced locally, but also the energy we import from abroad. that is why it is crucial that our energy strategy includes a strong storage strategy. the first thing that storage means is to put an end to the religious war against gas, so that, in line with environmental objectives, a transition with pragmatic ambitions is possible. pragmatic ambition does not mean reducing these ambitions, but it means shifting the focus of these ambitions from the commission's offices to the production sites of our enterprises, that is to say to those who use that energy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. energy policy is climate policy, and i am therefore very pleased that we are talking today about the energy union, which is often forgotten in climate policy. but we need to do better in energy cooperation, internationally and in the energy industry, because here we are lagging behind: in 2019, 73 percent of europe's energy was still fossil and we see energy prices skyrocketing. it is a serious situation, and the most remarkable thing about this report that we are discussing here today, about the state of the energy union, is that the eu is still subsidizing fossil fuels. it's not a small amount of money that could go from fossil to renewable. we are subsidizing them with 520 billion swedish kronor, the equivalent of 17 000 wind turbines that could have been built with that money. this is completely unacceptable. fossil fuel subsidies have no place in our energy system and that is why we must not forget the energy union. we need to make the energy union sexy again.
mr president, i would like to thank you. last year, renewables became the single largest source of energy in europe. for the first time. it was historic, but we have to do so much more to reach our goal of zero emissions. we are now entering the moment of truth for europe's climate transition, and our most important tool is the eu emissions trading system. emissions trading in its current form has led to the closure of one coal-fired power plant after another. but if we're going to get to 100 percent renewable, the price of carbon credits has to keep going up. nine member states have already phased out coal, but we need to get to 27. then we have to tighten up the emissions trading a lot, sell hundreds of millions of allowances on a board and increase the pace of emissions reduction. we also need to close all the loopholes that still allow fossil fuel subsidies to keep coal-fired power plants going. the only way to solve this is to change the climate.
mr president, energy union, in my view, is one of the most important and functional policies of the european union. we are step by step introducing efficient rules for market functioning and reducing the threat linked to energy imports. but we must look into the future. so what would be on my agenda? first of all, we must keep developing and enforcing the rules promoting market efficiency, for everyone, everywhere. secondly, natural gas will play a very important role in the future. to reduce the risk of the market volatility that we have seen just weeks ago, we must develop better storage and especially better management of this storage. so we need better rules for that. a better network for transition of electricity is important and necessary for better use of renewable sources of energy. as we know, some renewable energy sources are the cheapest sources of electricity for the time being. that is how the investment and energy union can contribute to more extensive use of these resources and, at the same time, decarbonisation and also lower prices for energy for households and firms within the eu. i hope the energy union will deliver all these goals.
mr president, commissioner, the state of the energy union is clearer than ever today. we're in a state of need. the need for more strategic autonomy, which can only be achieved through continued investment in renewable energy and storage technologies. the need for a wider and more transparent market, whose prices are not determined by fossil fuels and whose flows are not strangled by a lack of interconnections. the need to make a strong commitment to distributed production and consumption models, with diversified clean sources and involving territories and communities in their sustainability. finally, the need to combat energy poverty and promote a just transition, the dignity and quality of life of europeans. this goal is within our reach. in the green transition, the european union has expanded its capacity for global leadership. in a state of need, we need vision, decision and action. vision, decision and action at the right time, and the right time is now.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think this energy union progress report is very helpful and contains good news. firstly, we have reduced our co2 emissions by 31% since 1990 and this has been achieved by a very efficient instrument, namely the trading of emission allowances. the report also emphasizes that we have chosen the right instrument, a market-based instrument. we should develop that too. secondly, the positive is that there is more renewable energy in the whole european energy mix than ever before - that's also good news. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. our dependence on energy imports remains extremely high, at 60.6%, the highest level in over 30 years. this means that if we are to achieve the objectives of the green deal, it is also important to tackle this high level of dependency. we need to increase renewable energy massively, of course, but i think it is just as important to rely on bridging technologies like gas as a transitional option. gas infrastructure also plays an important role. and of course we have to make the hydrogen usable. and again, i would like to argue that we should not just look at green hydrogen, but we should look at hydrogen of any color. to build up the market, we need not only green, but also turquoise and other hydrogen. we have decided that in our hydrogen strategy as the european parliament.
mrs. simpson, i can't tell you enough about the need for an energy transition. i will also continue to advocate that the different starting positions of the member states should be taken into account in this transition. we can't have the most vulnerable carrying the greatest burden. every social system is only as strong as its weakest link. after the phasing out of coal-fired power plants, we'll need a stable base capacity. nuclear energy needs to be developed in the union in order to ensure low prices for end-users. we must also guarantee the livelihood and retraining of those working in the coal sector for the future. to this end, we must make effective use of the new european funds and financial mechanisms. with that in mind, i would like to ask you what stage the evaluation of energy projects is at in the bulgarian recovery and resilience plan. his broadcast was delayed because of the need for changes in this area.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm not trying to be a bitch and complain, but just convince us about the european public prosecutor's office. it has only been operational for five months, mr commissioner, and it has already opened 400 investigations, and the cases represent damage of the order of 5 billion euros. slovenia has joined the prosecution service, while other countries have not. the appointment process may not have been happy and it may not have been right. i hope the prosecutors who have been named are indeed the permanent partners and that the matter is settled. but what still bothers me is that there are some who are not participating, and that includes countries like sweden, which are not participating. we must be careful not to delay the debate too much: countries like hungary and poland are simply making their choice, but i do not think it is wise. because when i consider that we can do five billion euros worth of damage in five months alone in cross-border investigations, i call on all countries to join the eppo. i urge everyone to appoint their prosecutors quickly. i call on the national prosecutors to cooperate closely. because what the eppo has already done in a short amount of time means that the eppo is actually going to end up doing a lot more than it ever costs or we can get in with national prosecutors today. that's what this is really about. we must work together to advance the european public prosecutor's office. slovenia is now doing the same. as i said, i found the procedure extremely unfortunate. but i hope we're on the right track now. and now it has to be about getting everyone else involved who is not doing it at the moment.
mr president, this is not the first time we have discussed slovenia. since prime minister janša took office, we have seen a gradual and systematic deterioration in many areas, from media freedom to judicial independence. the government in ljubljana did not even have the time or the will to appoint european prosecutors. but these little tricks designed to disrupt the work of the european institutions to protect the money of the european union will not succeed. my question to the commission is very simple. how long will you tolerate such behaviour on the part of the member states? is it not time that you put rule of law issues at the top of your priorities? if someone does not care enough about the protection of the european union, they probably do not need their money. i have many questions for the council. but i do not think that the slovenian presidency has the credibility to respond to it. i can only hope that the next presidency will dare to make a difference in the field of the rule of law.
in writing. rare diseases are often chronic, progressive and have a devastating impact on the well-being, quality of life and ability to carry out everyday activities of those affected. i also found several petitions in the committee on petitions from people with this condition. they often require innovative and expensive treatment that is not financially viable, but it is essential to support their recovery at eu and member state level. i also asked the european commission about this in the spring of 2020. reducing inequalities in patients' access to diagnosis, information and care. member states need help to increase the awareness and visibility of these diseases. research and innovation should be supported to improve the understanding of such diseases. diagnostics and therapeutic approaches need to be improved. the majority of persons with rare diseases have mobility problems and face severe inequalities in employability and social inclusion, and it is therefore important that they receive the same level of protection under the un crpd as those whose disability is not linked to a rare disease. eu legislation protecting persons with disabilities against discrimination in employment and the 17th principle of the european pillar of social rights also apply to people with rare diseases.
the next item is the presentation of the court of auditors’ annual report 2020 (2021/2929(rsp)).
president of the court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i am delighted to be able to take part in today's plenary session of the european parliament. i'm accompanied by my colleague tony murphy. as you know, he is the member of the court responsible for the annual report and the dean of our chamber v. according to the treaty, the court of auditors' duties include auditing the accounts of all the union's revenue and expenditure and providing a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i would like to briefly present the results of this for the 2020 financial year to you this evening. as we have done for many years, we have issued full audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts and on the revenue. in the case of expenditure, on the other hand, we again identified a significant error rate for 2020 based on the 728 expenditure operations we selected. however, a closer look at the different types of expenditure and the associated risks showed that the low-risk expenditure did not actually have a significant error rate. on the other hand, high-risk expenditure - such as expenditure for which beneficiaries have to submit applications for reimbursement of eligible costs incurred and often have to comply with complex rules - again showed a significant error rate. the share of these high-risk expenditures is now well over half, 59% of our audit population in 2020. this is largely due to the increase in cohesion expenditure. for this reason, as we did last year, we issued an unsuccessful audit opinion on eu expenditure as a whole, a so-called adverse opinion. the most common errors identified by our auditors included cost statements, ineligible projects, activities or beneficiaries, errors in public procurement and state aid, and lack of evidence. for the competitiveness sub-heading, we estimate an overall error rate of 3.9%. the errors we identified were mainly related to research and innovation expenditure, and in particular to personnel costs reported by smes. our estimated error rate for cohesion is 3.5%. it has already been reduced to take account of corrections made before the start of our examination. we found that most errors were due to ineligible costs and projects and we also analysed the findings already made by national audit authorities before our audit. as we identified additional errors that had not been detected at national level or by the commission, we conclude - and this is not the first time - that the residual error rates reported at national level are not always reliable. our examination of the heading 'natural resources' gave an estimated error rate of 2%, which is just below the materiality threshold. there is a clear division here. on the one hand, direct payments, which account for 69% of this heading, do not have a significant error rate. the other part of the heading, which is rural development programmes, market measures, fisheries, environment and climate policy, has been shown to have significantly more irregularities. in the area of 'security and citizenship', one third of our 27 sample operations were affected by errors, four of which also had budgetary implications. a similar picture emerges for the heading 'europe in the world'. here, 17 quantifiable errors were identified in the 75 operations examined. in the administrative area, and this is always a positive thing, the error rate was below the materiality threshold. this was the case throughout the whole period of the last mip. so much for the individual mfr headings. let me now address six horizontal points that concern us all. the first is geographical information. we are often asked by you to provide a more precise breakdown of the test results by member state. although our approach is not designed to provide such information, i would point out that the quantified errors we have identified for the areas of cohesion and natural resources are listed in our annual report by member state and when we give specific examples we also mention the member state concerned. the second point is the withdrawals. for 2020, we looked more closely at the commission's reporting on financial corrections and write-offs in the annual management report and found that they were complex and not always clear. we also found that they go back a long way. the financial corrections also covered the 1994 to 1999 programming period. we will continue our work with a special report planned for 2022. the third point concerns fraud. the court referred to olaf six cases of suspected fraud which it had detected in the course of its investigation. in all these cases investigations were initiated. this year, the court entered into an agreement with the new european public prosecutor's office and therefore now addresses either olaf or the eppo, depending on their respective areas of competence. the fourth point is the subject of inspection visits, which we discussed at length in the committee on budgetary control a month ago. as you know, our auditors normally travel long distances to carry out on-the-spot audits, to obtain original documents, to interview personnel from the audited bodies on the spot and to verify the operations we have selected to ensure that the eu-funded outputs actually exist. we discussed the pandemic travel restrictions that our employees have been facing for many months. we are aware that this can of course increase the so-called risk of detection. for 2020, we were nevertheless able to complete our audit work and also draw the necessary conclusions based on the audit evidence we obtained. for future audits, we hope that, if this crisis should eventually come to an end, we will be able to carry out physical checks in the member states on a sufficient scale, but at the same time we will also be able to take advantage of videoconferencing for routine meetings. the fifth point, which i consider to be the most important, is the digitisation of reporting, monitoring and auditing. when i look at the day-to-day work of our auditors, there is no doubt that the entire audit chain needs to be digitized more. in other words, the lack of digitisation and interoperability means additional work for the auditors, more work steps for the commission to follow up on transactions, less transparency for the final beneficiaries and, of course, less acceptance. in the 21st century, the fact that there are several hundred different reporting systems for eu funds is not an expression of subsidiarity but of inefficiency. i am therefore very pleased that parliament has put this issue at the centre of its attention. in your resolution, based on a report with a legislative initiative drawn up by mrs grapini and voted on this week, you call for an update of the financial regulation and present the actual text at once. we all know that it will take time and money to establish such a harmonised reporting system. but we really must do everything now to avoid any further delays. i would therefore like to invite all those involved to focus on digitising the management of eu programmes, beyond the digitisation of reporting, i.e. those programme-related activities of the commission and the member states that take place before reporting, such as the allocation of funds or communication with beneficiaries. we as the court of auditors will of course do our homework on digitalisation. the sixth point is nextgenerationeu. as you know, the payments from the development fund will be based on meeting milestones and targets, unlike the current system where costs are reimbursed. obviously, this will affect what constitutes a mistake, and perhaps our findings and our reporting of them will change accordingly. the court is very grateful to the parliament for its strong support for its request for additional audit posts, which it made specifically for the nextgenerationeu debate on the 2022 budget. i am particularly grateful that parliament was able to include this item in the final budget, which was agreed last week in the conciliation procedure. i would like to express to you, madam president of the committee on budgetary control, mrs hohlmeier, and to your colleague, mr van overtveldt, chairman of the committee on budgets, and to the rapporteur responsible, mr boeselager, my express appreciation of the court's commitment to this matter. finally, it is about having the necessary human resources to give you insights and findings on nextgenerationeu that you do not have otherwise.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, thank you for the invitation to this meeting today and for giving the commission the opportunity to comment on the european court of auditors’ annual report. let me start by thanking president lehne and his colleagues for their work in preparing the 2020 annual report. we are very proud of the achievements of the eu budget in 2020. we have put together, in a mere few weeks, a comprehensive response to the unprecedented challenges brought about by the covid pandemic, providing flexibility to the union’s budget to redirect every single euro available to this effort. and in spite of the challenges caused by the pandemic, we have also continued to deliver on the goals of our programmes and on the overarching horizontal priorities, such as the green and digital transitions. lastly, we have continued to protect the eu budget against fraud and misuse, despite the new challenges. now, on the court’s report, let me first say that i am pleased that the eu accounts have received a clean opinion. for the 14th year in a row, the court has concluded that our figures are reliable. likewise, i am happy that the court concludes, like last year, that the revenue side of the eu budget and administrative spending are free from material error. for expenditure, the european court of auditors’ overall level of error remains at 2.7%, the same level as last year – despite, as we all know, the extremely difficult pandemic circumstances. some years ago, we were discussing a much higher level of error. since then, the commission has made significant improvements, so that now, more than 97% of eu expenditure is estimated to be error free. while the report provides a snapshot at a specific point in time, many of the controls and corrections are still to be made. at the closure of our multiannual programmes, our aim is to be below the materiality threshold. as you have heard from president lehne, the court has maintained its adverse opinion on expenditure. while we respect the opinion and methodology of the european court of auditors, i would like to underline that the implementation of the european union budget is not homogeneous across countries, across regions and programmes, or even types of measures. this is why the commission carries out a very detailed assessment of the functioning of its systems and those of the member states and implementing partners. we identify where the risks and weaknesses are, and we take tailor—made actions to address these. on this basis, as well as on the basis of the court’s conclusions – which rightly identify a certain number of remaining challenges – we will continue our efforts: on simplifying rules (this remains the best way to prevent errors); on strengthening our control systems to make them more effective (i do not mean here more controls, i mean better controls); on accompanying, supporting and guiding beneficiaries, national authorities and other partners in the day—to—day management of eu funds. i want to thank you once again for your attention and i look forward to our discussion today.
madam president, commissioner, mr president, i would like to focus on one of the themes that is being raised here, and that is cooperation. in the committee on budgetary control, we constantly find one thing the lack of and lax cooperation between the institutions of the european union and the member states. the european union, in its solidarity, will offer funds, programmes, platforms to support and strengthen our policies. member states agree to those conditions and then suddenly they don't comply. it is totally unacceptable that this report describes in a number of cases in relation to the european development fund and the global europe programme that some international organisations are questioning the very mandate of the european court of auditors and thus seeking to prevent cooperation. it is unacceptable that some non-profit organisations provide documents with only limited access, making it impossible to obtain copies of documents, or extending and extending the deadlines for providing documents. this is a sabotage of this partnership. in doing so, the treaty on the functioning of the european union gives the european court of auditors the right to access those documents and information it needs to carry out its audits. i therefore call on the european commission to articulate this condition properly, specifically to the directorate-general responsible for budget implementation in the global europe and european development fund areas. if not, the european commission should consider what action it will take next.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, 2020 was a difficult year, which affected europe’s society and economy in an unprecedented way. it did, of course, affect the implementation of the eu funds in eu programmes. in this context, it is positive to note that the report concludes that the revenues for 2020 are regular, legal and free of material error. of course, it is good that the estimated error in expenditure remained the same as last year, at 2.7%. i would like to mention that there are certain positive developments in significant areas of eu spending, including cohesion, where we see a decrease in the error rate this year compared to the previous year. the current crisis is not over. eu support must reach people and small businesses swiftly and without unnecessary bureaucratic burden. digital and large—scale investments must offer a balanced and effective recovery, and this parliament needs assurances on the achievements and the milestones of the targets we set so we can achieve the goals we have ahead of us.
in writing. it is an undeniable fact that gender-based violence remains a horrifying reality for too many eu citizens. despite the high targets set by the commission, there are still no satisfactory concrete results. many abused women keep silent because they believe their abusers will change. in fact, statistics show that 33% of women in the eu have been subjected to physical and/or sexual violence, and 55% have been sexually harassed. so now, we, clearly and loudly must talk about this problem. hundreds of lives could have been saved if we had only taken the appropriate measures and implemented strong policies on domestic and gender-based violence. we must ensure the safety of women worldwide by eliminating gender-based violence in its many forms in order to achieve gender equality. violence is not inevitable. there's a way out. the istanbul convention is an effective tool in the fight against violence against women. unfortunately, bulgaria is still one of the countries that has not ratified it. the spd is the only party that has expressed support for the convention from the outset. i sincerely believe that ratification of the convention will be a key step in eradicating violence against women and ensuring full gender equality.
in writing. i support the report on combating gender-based violence with a focus on cyber-violence because it is very timely. with the advancement of technology and digitization, there are many digital spaces for people to communicate, which have changed the way we interact. gender-based cyber violence is carried out through the use of a wide range of online communication tools, including social media, discussion sites, dating sites and in-game chats. it is worrying that women and girls are affected by this type of violence to the highest degree. according to unicef, girls are twice as likely to be bullied as boys. the means of protection against attacks include the introduction of a common gender-based definition of cyber-violence, effective access to justice and specialised support services in all member states, and its criminalisation as a crime with a cross-border dimension under the tfeu. the dps has always stood for gender equality and the protection of women's rights. we strongly condemn all forms of violence in all their diversity and demand the ratification of the istanbul convention. we will continue to work to raise awareness and education about violence, to provide opportunities to protect victims through reporting, better monitoring and prosecution.
mr president, i like this initiative of the commission. too often we decide for the young what problems they have and how they should be solved. and it's really time to ask them. and not just ask, but hear them. i don't agree with the budget cuts. i don't know how we're going to get activities in all the member states for one year for 10 million. it is not the member states that should be blamed for everything. the european union must show young people that it is prepared to allocate money for them from the european budget. i am very concerned, however, about certain trends that are increasingly creeping into european politics. i'm talking about the deliberate separation of people based on ethnicity, race, sexuality. it is absolutely unacceptable to give special attention and importance only to the problems of minorities at the expense of everyone else. you're only creating division and hatred. all young people should have an equal chance, no matter who they are or where they come from. otherwise, we're just creating young people who hate each other. you're against radicalization, but you're actually encouraging that process.
mr president, personal histories have been rewritten by the consequences of this disease. we still don’t know how and when this terrible episode will be over. i had my speech prepared, but listening to this intervention, i just wanted to say one thing on bosnia and herzegovina. in 2002, on christmas night, a croatian family in herzegovina – because it’s not just bosnia – was slaughtered by a muslim radical who said he had been inspired by the killing by serbs of a muslim family. a few days ago, in sarajevo, another catholic croat family was attacked. a note was left on the door to stop putting up christmas decorations or they would be slaughtered. there was no condemnation by the mayor of sarajevo, just a remark: it’s because somebody from the other side is fighting for your rights. so, i don’t know how this personal history will end, but i just call on you, on christmas night, to think about croat catholics who are fearing for their lives because somebody here, 50 years after the fall of yugoslavia and the bloody war that we had, still hasn’t learned the lesson that you cannot kill christmas. you cannot kill the people. we just have to start listening. as with this pandemic. you have to listen to all sides of the story.
mr president, i would like to thank you. even before the omicron alert, estimates were that 700,000 europeans could lose their lives to covid-19 before the summer. the eu must therefore coordinate better and ensure that vaccination coverage does not vary as it does today between 92 and 29%. it's not sustainable. it is evident that vaccines protect against the spread of infection and save lives. at the same time, we must have proportionate measures, not counterproductive vaccine requirements. it is crucial that the inclusion of third doses in the digital covid certificates now takes place quickly. it is also crucial that we rapidly develop new vaccines adapted to the mutated variants. but the most important thing in the fight against omicron is that we go and get that third dose as soon as possible.
mr president, when you look at a map of europe, you see an east-west vaccination divide with central and eastern member states far behind. while denmark has an 82% vaccination rate, bulgaria is at 26%. while you talk of booster shots in some parts of europe, other parts of europe are still working on their first shots. one of the causes of this is clearly disinformation. however, disinformation is not an east-west problem, but an eu-wide problem, which we need to address at eu level. this is just another example of the need to do more against disinformation campaigns. the digital services act will only do so much; we need to find other additional measures to counter this: tools to help our citizens know what is real and what is not. this european summit should address this.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the cold has arrived and many families and smes are still suffering the consequences of the increase in the price of electricity and gas when they are just recovering from the pandemic. it is important that the european council endorses the commission's proposals on 'joint purchasing, strategic energy storage and the promotion of renewable energies', but there is also an urgent need to adopt a reform of the wholesale electricity market. the member states must also tackle the migration challenge without further delay with an approach based on solidarity and respect for human dignity; it is unacceptable that the council cannot reach an agreement while migrants continue to die at the borders or at sea: with or without a pact, those member states which are prepared to move forward together must do so now, we must act now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago i visited the border area between poland and belarus, an intolerable situation in a climate of terror for migrants and those who try to help them, and this is what i found. the lives of thousands of people, including many women and children, are being squeezed between the grip of the cold and that of politics because of lukashenko's shameful action, but also because of the inadequate response of the european union, which has a legal and moral duty to help those people. walls are being erected instead of protecting families in difficulty, and derogations from the right of asylum are being proposed, as the commission has recently done, to speed up return procedures instead of those of reception and solidarity. this is not good. in the face of the pandemic, the union has shown that it is capable of making the right and courageous choices that were unthinkable just a few months ago. the european leaders meeting in the council must therefore find a solution to the refugee crisis by overcoming the dublin system and creating a new model based on solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. we find our humanity, as europeans, abandoned at the frontiers of europe.
mr president, covid-19 has shown us all that we have vulnerabilities, but it has also shown us that together we can find answers and solutions, and that the solidarity we have shown at european level has been helpful to many member states, but also to countries outside the european union. it's been almost two years since we learned our lessons and coordinated for an adequate response, but we continue to be hit by the lack of prevention, the misinformation, that is putting pressure on health systems that are struggling to cope with this fourth wave and the new omicron variant. there are no health systems in the world that are designed to deal with this crisis effortlessly but the debate on the capacity and effectiveness of our health systems to deal with and better prepare for the future, this debate is not enough, but we must focus on global information campaigns, fight against misinformation and increase vaccination, prevention first and foremost and good coordination at european and global level to increase the vaccination rate and promote the booster, which are sorely needed. but we also have to accept that some citizens are choosing not to get vaccinated, or even those who have been vaccinated can be infected with new strains, and we've seen encouraging news in recent weeks about new oral antivirals that can prevent patients from ending up in the hospital or intensive care units. getting these drugs to patients is definitely going to be a challenge that we have to do together, and i believe that through public awareness campaigns, through fighting misinformation, we will be able to beat this pandemic.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is deeply worrying that we continue to see new corona variants causing health problems all over the world. no one is safe until everyone is safe. that is why we in the eu must do much more than we are doing today. we must make a huge effort in relation to the eu. we are not short of vaccines, but we must make a great effort to eliminate misinformation and scepticism about vaccines, because that is the problem with getting up and ensuring proper, good and wide coverage. it's about making an impact on social media. it's about creating more awareness. in the global context, we need both vaccines and help to combat misinformation, and i believe that the eu should play an even greater role than it does today. we need to get more vaccines to the world, and we need to help them get rolled out. we also need to work with them to combat misinformation and vaccine scepticism, which is global. no one is safe until everyone is safe!
mr president, vice-president sefcovic, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of high energy prices can only be tackled starting tomorrow by the european council, collectively, european and dynamically, and despite the fact that the energy mix is the responsibility of the member states. the european union must return to the lessons of the pandemic and proceed without further delay with voluntary joint gas orders so that we, the countries that are mainly facing the problem in the south, such as my country, greece, can strengthen our bargaining power with suppliers as part of the single market. it is also necessary for the european union to support the infrastructure that increases our strategic energy autonomy. stability and energy security in south-east europe go hand in hand with green energy transmission and storage infrastructure for the future that is coming. we have heard from the president of the commission, mr sefcovic - and it is a pity that mrs von der leyen is not always in the chamber until after the speeches of the members of the european parliament - that there is a possibility of decoupling the prices of natural gas from electricity, a choice which in principle implies high strategic common stocks. the debate must immediately lead to the necessary change in the legislative framework for the determination of electricity prices. the high energy prices, ladies and gentlemen, inflation, the precision of goods, are hitting the weakest of the weak. it is our responsibility to tackle energy poverty radically. the big social fund will be ready in 2026. until then, the european union's interventions must not leave any of our fellow citizens in the cold. menemen, mandra, neurokopi are watching and waiting for our intervention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. euco is faced with a whole range of problems. many of them are serious and urgent at the same time. it is time for the new german government to give a new impetus. one of these issues is the continued high and volatile energy prices. we now know from the european agencies that there appears to have been no market manipulation. but that actually increases the pressure on the council and the commission to act. i still lack an initiative for a new climate and energy foreign policy. the necessary strategy on the use of transition technologies to the widespread use of sustainably produced electricity and co2-free hydrogen is also lacking. if the commission presents the new gas market package today, it may be a new mosaic. this package must organise the beginning of the phase-out of fossil natural gas, even if we still need it for a transitional period. it must also set the framework for building the infrastructure for renewable gases, such as hydrogen. we want to prevent greenwashing, but we want to ensure that we can increase the production of hydrogen. the security of supply, energy efficiency and social compatibility must be guaranteed. this will put the socialist group at the centre.
mr president, mr commissioner, the unpredictability of the pandemic has forced us to learn from our own experience. we learn to be more empathetic, we learn that each for himself, no one has effective answers, but a doubt remains. was it a one-time learning in the face of circumstances or did we move to a new level in our collective relationship? the european council tomorrow will give decisive signals to clarify this question. if we prepare together the platform for responding to the next crises, if we empower the most vulnerable countries to also be able to respond to threats and at the same time develop their base of skills, knowledge and capacity to produce and distribute essential goods, if we change together the regulatory framework that allows speculation in energy prices, if we create more autonomy to defend ourselves with a stronger voice within nato, if we apply a humanistic and efficient framework in managing migration flows, then we can say: the change was structural. european citizens will have more reason to be proud of belonging to a humanistic and supportive partnership.
mr president, it’s been two years since covid—19 was discovered and if there is one single lesson that we should all have learned, it is that coordination is everything. we need coordination among us, as no country can handle this pandemic alone. some countries were hit at the beginning and others later on, but we all faced it. when we hear that healthcare is strictly a national competence, let us not forget how we transferred patients across borders when hospitals were overwhelmed. the joint procurement for vaccines proved to be a huge success, but the closing of internal borders proved to be a huge failure. the covid green pass was also an effective tool, as it gave additional motivation to people to get vaccinated and it was a prerequisite for the partial recovery of tourism and the economy. i hope that national authorities will not undermine it by putting additional restrictions on vaccinated people. this will only bring problems, especially on a long-term basis. finally, let us not forget that, while we are lucky to have vaccines and even boosters here, big developing countries have barely begun vaccinating their populations.
