madam president, mr borrell, the implementation of all european union policies must be based on the defence of human rights and democracy. it is the duty of the european union to protect children and women who are subjected to the greatest injustices; to strengthen freedom of expression and to defend journalists who are bullied and murdered worldwide; to protect those persecuted for their beliefs or religion or identity. we have a duty to defend human rights defenders all over the world. mr borrell, in turkey the authoritarian regime is illegally imprisoning dissidents, removing elected officials, suppressing basic civil liberties and provoking conflict with other countries. we call on you to defend the fundamental rights that are being trampled on by erdogan, both in turkey and in the neighbouring countries. we have an obligation as the european union to do so.
mr president, commissioner, in my country, cyprus, housing is a sacred institution. in 1974, hundreds of thousands of cypriots lost their homes because of the turkish invasion. in 2013, cypriot citizens 'turned their backs' on banks, losing some or all of their deposits. today, these same banks threaten to take away the homes of those who cannot pay their debts. today, and while the pandemic continues, it is unthinkable for any human being to lose their home. member states should introduce legal provisions on credit facilities and on protection of tenants against eviction. i repeat: no man should lose his home. we support the commission's policy, commissioner, on the renovation of housing. this policy will create jobs, help protect the environment and enable millions of european citizens to have access to affordable housing. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation of the homeless in the european union.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, it is well known that both youth and the sports sector have been badly hit by the covid pandemic, and we must show immediate support in practice. it is unacceptable that there are still young people that are deprived of their right to education because of a lack of technical infrastructure. it is also a sad situation that unemployment and low-paid jobs in the labour market are much higher among youngsters. it should be a matter of priority to stop these negative trends, which are having serious psychological effects on our young people. we need to provide young people with high-quality education, but also secure jobs with all labour rights and safeguards. in addition, i would like to underline that sport is one of the most important sectors that promote social inclusion, health and well-being. the eu must show solidarity also with grassroots sports and amateur clubs.
mr president, commissioner, today is the international day of the greek language and i honour my language. the pandemic was new to all of us. facing it is a constant battle on all levels. it has created enormous wounds and challenges both economically and socially. our fight is two-pronged. we are tackling the vaccine health crisis and the economic crisis collectively with direct financial support in the member states. europe has shown readiness and i am proud as a member of the european people's party to have been at the forefront of the creation of the recovery mechanism we are discussing today. this money will help millions of businesses and workers who have been affected by the pandemic get back on their feet. we are building the future for a smooth green and digital transition; for a better tomorrow with more opportunities for our young people. the european union is a great example of solidarity and solidarity in the face of such a major economic and humanitarian crisis, and we are proud of our european identity.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, dear stella, the pandemic has unfortunately offered europe an opportunity to regain some of its lost credibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the common policy on vaccination, which you have so well drawn up, is unfortunately being distorted by several member states. everyone goes their own way and eventually works their own salvation. we are already facing a vaccine nationalism. you gave billions of dollars of public money to big pharma, which is now privatizing both the vaccine and the patents and making unbridled profits. the european citizens have been left by the millions under very harsh restrictive measures. the dead are unfortunately piling up and approaching two and a half million. i would like to make a heartfelt plea to mrs von der leyen that she should put her life above blood-stained profits. you can ?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. social media must not become a platform for hatred, racism, disinformation and incitement. the free access to the internet, information and communication must be guaranteed for all and access to the internet must be a public good. so a free internet with democratically controlled platforms is the order of the day. this means: common eu rules, in particular strict antitrust or anti-trust control; active participation of the internet groups; the involvement of civil society. in addition, the various platforms must agree to general terms and conditions which are clearly defined. users must also have the right to take data and relationships from one social network to another. finally, it is high time for a fair taxation and distribution of the enormous profits of the internet giants. the rich are finally paying their bills.
the most brutal, deadliest, most insidious pandemic - perhaps even more so than the coronavirus - is violence against women. every day 137 women are murdered by a member of their family. last year, 243 million women were victims of sexual and physical violence. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. violence is unemployment, layoffs and wage cuts for women, as a result of the capitalist mode of development and its neoliberal policies. we have to say that violence against women has spiked during the pandemic, even though women are on the front lines of addressing it. today, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to talk about the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and the challenges ahead. but what future challenges, when the challenges of the past have not yet been met? the beijing declaration does indeed contain objectives and actions which, if implemented, will cover women's rights in an effective way. but they will not be realized unless the root of the evil is struck. commissioner, that is our duty to every woman, wherever she may be. this is our duty to humanity.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, as a cypriot, as a european and as a human being i am extremely sensitive to issues relating to human rights and the protection of human life and dignity and i would like to say a big thank you to my colleagues and especially to my colleague david lega for bringing this matter to the house today to be discussed. the situation in rwanda and the information coming from there cannot but cause us concern. after the hundreds of deaths caused by the civil war and despite the efforts to return the country to normalcy, it seems unfortunately that there is still a long way to go. the case of the arrest and disappearance of the human rights defender, paul rusesabagina, is another worrying development for which the european parliament is seeking specific explanations. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, who is a european citizen, an internationally recognised activist, whose story has been moving. we would remind you that the european union is a union of principles and values. so anyone who wants to have a relationship with us must respect these principles. we emphasize that his disappearance violates rwanda's obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights. we therefore demand his immediate release and that the authorities of the country holding him comply with the international obligations he has signed. and we demand that this be done immediately.
i am pleased to welcome two ladies today, on women's day. the rapporteur may not have succeeded in becoming a news anchor, but she has become a truth and life anchor and we thank her. one in six citizens in the european union is affected by some form of disability. we must fight the isolation that many people with disabilities experience. the integration of these people into the workforce is a fundamental right, but also an obligation. from the statistics we have available only 50% of people with disabilities are in employment at the moment. we must ensure an accessible and friendly working environment, not as a favor, but as an obligation to implement the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. these rights must be guaranteed, especially in these times of crisis, such as the one we are experiencing today. we must ensure that all programmes are understandable and accessible to all. so we make sure they get to them. these people don't ask; they demand their rights and with them, we too.
in writing. invest eu's main objective is to respond dynamically to the crisis with strategic investments and with substantial funds, which will be allocated free of charge to eu member states. these funds will move all productive sectors of the economy and bring employment, prosperity and real growth. the projects will not conflict with the social and environmental objectives set by the eu. total invest eu investment is expected to amount to eur 400 billion, allocated to sustainable investments and infrastructure (38%), research, innovation and digitalisation (25%), smes (26%) and social investments and skills (11%). after a long and hard struggle and consultation, we finally get the vote in favour in the european parliament, and that is of great importance for all citizens of the union. the exit from the socio-economic crisis brought on by the pandemic is very much dependent on this programme. this new development initiative will benefit the societies and economies of the union.
mr. president, dear stella, it is unfair to take personal responsibility for what is happening with the pandemic in europe. but since this is a matter of life and death, we must be honest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you started by pushing states to limit investment in health care and go for privatizations. we saw the results! the pandemic has found public hospitals understaffed and unprepared to deal with this evil that has found us. today, despite the huge number of cases and hospitalized and dead, you are again cutting funding for the notorious eu4health from 9.4 to 5.3 billion. i think it's a disgrace and a lack of respect for the dead. in addition, you are now calling for the health sector to be managed at european union level. but how can the public trust you when they see the vaccine mess, when they see you embezzling big pharmaceutical companies with public money at the same time as the dead pile up and pile up and exceed 2.5 million? we're doing very well on the talking. our nurses and doctors are heroes, but they need support. the strikers today in the hospitals of cyprus are sending a loud message. open our ears, listen to human suffering, support public health, because people's lives are not a joke.
the lessons of the pandemic are clear to all of us and have reached, or should reach, every corner of europe. only by uniting and working together can we tackle the great challenges in health. there are no, and there should be no, borders in the treatment of disease. there is no, and there should be no, inequality in the health care provided to every european citizen, to every human being. there must be no patient who cannot receive the treatment he needs, either because his country lacks the infrastructure or because he lacks the financial means. the european union has a very ambitious plan and has stepped forward, giving us all the possibility of hoping for better days. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, on your dedication and your fight to ensure that we all have better and more effective health services, whether we come from a large or a small country; thank you for your fight, our common fight, to stand by people suffering from cancer. we still have a long way to go in this area, to achieve equal access to treatments and innovative medicines. but if we all move towards the same common goal, we can succeed and then we can be proud of ourselves as europeans and as human beings.
the economic impact of the crisis we are experiencing, not only at national level but also at european level, is enormous and we are not yet at the end of the road. but i like to think that in every crisis we can find an opportunity. an opportunity to look ahead and use all that we have learned to the benefit of our citizens, businesses, investments and countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must also re-examine our strategy on where we should go in the area of skills. the coronavirus crisis has shown us the way, i think, commissioner. it has shown that adequate digital skills are critical for citizens to access information, education and even their jobs. today, about 40% of european citizens still do not even have the basic digital skills, and this is no longer acceptable if we want to talk about a safe environment, whether for businesses or for investments. this is where we need to turn with a focus on funding and developing digital skills across europe, using this tool to create thousands of jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the pillar of social rights, with its 20 basic principles, ensures equal opportunities, fair working conditions and social protection for european citizens. it promotes the struggle for equality and equal treatment. women and men have the right to equal pay for work of equal value. it is not acceptable for women to receive lower pay for equal work. this practice is offensive to us as europeans. it is also not acceptable that every young person, every citizen, should not have access to education. our aim is to provide education without exclusion and to provide opportunities for all to acquire the necessary skills. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one.
mr president, unfortunately, media freedom violations in the eu reached their highest in the past five years. it is unacceptable that in the member states journalists are intimidated, pressurised, attacked, both verbally and physically, and even killed. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union gives everyone the right to freedom of expression, to hold opinions and to receive and impart information and ideas without interference by public authority. nevertheless, we have been seeing attempts to silence media via censorship, lawsuits, state aid and taxes. especially, some right—wing conservative governments tend to ignore the fact that pluralism, freedom, democracy, equality and respect for human rights are the very values that define the union. in some member states, national media channels broadcast pro-government propaganda only, excluding opposition and minority groups. all this is unacceptable.
in writing. the green digital certificate aims to establish a common line and facilitate the free and safe movement of european citizens. the certificate will enable people to travel again, and is in itself a major step forward in giving a new perspective to the tourism sector and to citizens working in different countries. the tourism sector in my country, cyprus, is the lifeblood of the economy and has been irreparably damaged during this period. it is therefore urgent to relaunch this sector using a common strategy and taking initiatives such as the digital certificate, always respecting the personal data of citizens.
madam president, the turkish presidency wants to justify its withdrawal from the istanbul convention by claiming that it is incompatible with turkish traditional family values, and argues that women in turkey are already protected by turkish values and traditions. what values and traditions? laws or turkish patriarchy? in turkey on average everyday five women are killed. sixty-one per cent of women are subjected to physical violence by their partners, fathers or brothers. withdrawing from a convention which aims to prevent domestic violence against women in a country such as turkey, where murders of women have tripled in the past 10 years, is to leave the woman at the mercy of male domination. on top of that, turkey justifies the withdrawal by attacking the lgbti community: an open violation of sexual liberty. the european union should show zero tolerance to the turkish government, which day by day becomes more authoritarian and more and more disrespects fundamental human rights. we need to make all necessary steps in order to provide strong protection and promotion of the rights and freedoms of women and the lgbti community.
madam president, commissioner, allow me to begin by wishing a happy birthday to greece and the greek people, who are celebrating today the 200th anniversary of the greek revolution, which led to a free greek state. respect for european ideals and values is a basic prerequisite for a european state. we fully support serbia's european perspective and welcome the fact that it is a common strategic objective of the government and of all political forces in the country. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people. i would like to stress that we support the opening of more funds in the negotiations between the european union and serbia, which will give added momentum to the process and additional incentives and encouragement to the serbian citizens. the progress report shows the common will of all parties to speed up the negotiation process so that we can see serbia soon where it belongs, in the european union.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mrs von der leyen, mr michel, we have not come here to talk about mr erdoğan's couches or the strong words you say you used to address him. we have not heard them. unfortunately, we are back to the same old story. turkey is waving the whip for the carrots and europe is stepping on two boats: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you agree that it is of strategic importance for europe to develop and further strengthen relations with turkey to their mutual benefit. mutual benefit for whom? what turkey ? with a turkey which wears its fine costume a few days before the councils, but at the same time kills and imprisons women, imprisons its elected parliamentarians and politicians, mayors, kurds and others, as the previous ones have mentioned? threatening neighbors ? with mr erdoğan declaring that he will just as easily invade cyprus again? who creates artifacts in the sandhills? with turkey going to geneva tomorrow for the informal meeting, from which europe will be absent? i really wonder how you have accepted this insult: that europe is not just outside the chamber but outside the building! how will you ensure the council's commitment to europe being an active observer and to ensure the resumption of negotiations? mr erdoğan, unfortunately, has threateningly waved his whip in front of you, asking for many gifts, which i am very afraid you will give him. i am saying that there are limits to the concessions and flexibility that must be shown to turkey and others. but there are no limits when we negotiate principles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport sector is not affected by the pandemic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the rail transport services, including the introduction of a new system of public transport services. i would like to focus my intervention on the mobility of european citizens who have mobility problems. transport must be designed in such a way as to improve the daily lives of all of us, not to make them more difficult. i have repeatedly stressed that member states must fully guarantee the rights of people with disabilities and defend their right to live on an equal footing in society. this is also enshrined in the international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the new rules are taking some decisive steps. i note on the positive side the reduction in the time limit for requesting assistance for people with mobility problems who wish to travel, from 48 to 24 hours. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i insist on this point because without the right of access we are depriving our citizens with mobility problems of their right to mobility, to health, to work, to participate in society. we are depriving them of their right to life and that cannot be accepted.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as long as there are children who have no access to health care, as long as there are children who are abused, who have no access to a clean environment and face conditions of social exclusion, we have no right to rest easy. as long as there are children who cannot be educated because there is no infrastructure, as long as there are children who have no roof over their heads, we cannot talk about a europe of security, solidarity and social justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children of the victims of the holocaust are not subject to any discrimination. we have an obligation to fight here in this european parliament to ensure that. by investing in and protecting our children, we ensure a better future for all of us. as long as a child needs us, we owe it to ourselves to be there for him if we want to be called human.
mr president, commissioner, we are very pleased to have you with us. latin america is one of the regions most affected by the pandemic. the impact on health, employment, education and poverty is unprecedented. high levels of inequality, poverty and lack of social protection make the conditions more favourable for the spread of the pandemic, which mainly affects vulnerable groups. the european union, as a global stability actor, should further strengthen cooperation with latin american countries in the response to the pandemic. we have to implement the 2030 agenda and implement the sustainable development goals. the 'europe group' is one of the main contributors to the covax mechanism, with over €2.2 billion, and this is something that we are proud of. at this stage an action plan should be drawn up and presented in order to create an effective and integrated vaccination strategy in latin america with european contribution and assistance.
madam president, mrs johansson, there is a voice: we were lost and starving at sea for three weeks. we poured sea water on our shoes to quench our thirst. these were the first words spoken by 17-year-old aisha when she was circumcised. fifty-six people died on aisha's boat. this is not the first or the last story, unfortunately. behind every person who dies trying to reach the promised land - that's what the poor think europe is - is a father, a mother, a brother, friends who stay behind to pay off the smuggler, with the hope and the hope that their child's journey will not be fatal. five hundred migrants have drowned in the mediterranean this year trying to reach europe, 36,000 since 1993. cold numbers for some, as the prestige of humanity drowns in the mediterranean waters. stop building forts! stop building earth fortresses... the president takes the floor. )
on behalf of the left group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but what progress report is this, given that turkey is continually falling back on critical issues? it is not the first time that we have heard that turkey should demonstrate its relations and objectives vis-à-vis the union in practice. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but what positive agenda when turkey and mr erdogan are imprisoning their own citizens, not meeting the copenhagen criteria, threatening their neighbours? the attitude of turkey and the turkish cypriot leader in geneva towards the solution of the cyprus problem is a clear example of this attitude. the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the middle east, and it is the first to express its views on the situation in the middle east. the sanctions, commissioner, are certainly not the issue and the panacea. but carrots have to have an expiration date. we call on turkey to change course, but we also call on you to show turkey the need to respect european law and avoid provocations. the upgrading of the customs union with turkey should take account of the need to respect any previous agreements it had with europe. i would like to conclude by stressing that it is the summit, which is very crucial, that will determine the price and the credibility of the european union itself.
in writing. now is the time to send a loud message to turkey that the behavior of the pirate, bully and invader in the eastern mediterranean is not going to be tolerated any longer. i ask you to join forces to take drastic measures that will bring substantial costs to the erdogan regime. ankara must understand by deeds, not words, that any illegal action has consequences. the european union has therefore decided to withdraw its aid to turkey and to freeze the negotiations on its customs union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. what we need, and mr erdogan must understand this, is peace and cooperation, not gunners, rumours and a show of force. the european parliament has done its duty, it has prepared a catapult report against turkey and it calls on the council to do the same. enough, no more tolerance of erdogan's crimes, no more second chances that only succeed in further weakening turkey.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, mrs verheyen was right to refer to jean monnet, who was to start from culture for the second time. education and culture are indeed essential issues for the european union. it is the common public space of culture and the common principles of education that will unite the citizens of the union, not just economic interests. unfortunately, not everyone understands the importance of culture and education. we therefore regret that the european parliament's position on tripling the budget for erasmus+ has not been implemented. we hope that in the future we will all understand that investment in education, culture and young people is an investment in the future of the european union. however, i would like to welcome on behalf of the left group the conclusion of the negotiations on the erasmus+ programme for the period 2021-2027. erasmus+ is the european union's most iconic programme, embracing and giving opportunities, providing learning to young people from all over europe. that is why throughout this process we as the left insisted that the programme have a strong educational content, to promote the participation of the most vulnerable groups, of people with special needs, but also to include minorities, people with disabilities and young people from the poor camps. our vision is a europe in which education and culture are at the heart of european policies.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. because i hear so much unfair criticism of europe, i want to stress that there is no doubt that the european union has been working on this front since the first day of the pandemic. it has saved lives, invested billions in vaccine development and is one of the main donors to the covax mechanism. but this battle is not over. today we urgently need more vaccine production to save lives. global solidarity and coordination is needed, as the virus knows no borders. we must therefore give very serious consideration to what we are doing so that the production of vaccines is sufficiently increased worldwide and particularly in the countries which need it most. we must continue to put the health of people first. our goal should be to increase vaccine production under any circumstances, putting the public good above any self-interest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank my colleague, mr lukas mandl, for his excellent work. europe is about principles and values. we therefore welcome the proposal to amend the regulation on the european union agency for fundamental rights. it is a valuable step towards making it more effective. the pandemic that has struck and continues to strike the world has demonstrated in the most harsh way the inequalities and social exclusion faced by different groups of people. the agency should therefore urgently address these inequalities, with particular emphasis on cases of violence against women. the agency should also focus more on the protection of children's rights by ensuring the implementation by all member states of the united nations convention on the rights of the child. in addition, international cooperation with third countries is becoming increasingly necessary. this cooperation should ensure the adequate promotion, presence, protection and monitoring of rights, not only within europe but also beyond.
madam president, commissioner, when the war machine of aliyev and erdogan was razing the ruins of nagorno-karabakh with drones and mercilessly hitting armenians, even civilians, europe was absent. when the leaders of azerbaijan and turkey celebrated their crime, europe just watched. today, months later, dozens of armenians remain in aliyev's hands, with azerbaijan refusing to return them to their families. listen to this: in cyprus, when the turks invaded in 1974, they took thousands of prisoners, hundreds of them never returned. even today we pull the bones of our dead from wells and mass graves. so don't expect aliyev to return prisoners unless he's forced to do so. i call on you to save the dignity of europe. i call on you to stand, even now, with the armenian people who are demanding the return of prisoners. with all the strength of our souls let us declare that until every last armenian captive is returned to his family, we will not stop claiming it.
mr president, commissioner, 24 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe provide jobs for 100 million workers and form the backbone of our economy. however, today, due to the pandemic and the policies imposed, many of the smes are bleeding, dying and closing. the european union cannot whistle indifferently. even the european central bank admits that the proportion of small and mediumsized enterprises that will close will gradually increase dramatically. we call for immediate and effective measures to provide incentives for sustainable growth, increased emergency aid from the european union, support from the member states - provided that quality jobs are maintained. we are calling for an end to divestments, for assistance to be given to small and mediumsized enterprises, for access to european programmes and financing. without such measures, the viability of small and mediumsized enterprises is threatened and the consequences will be unbearable for the peoples of europe. is that what we want?
in writing. i welcome the agreement on the european social fund+ for the period 2021-2027. it is of paramount importance that an agreement is reached to repair the enormous social damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic in europe. the fund will allocate 88 billion for this purpose. we call on the member states to make full use of the key financial instrument for implementing the european pillar of social rights. this will help to support citizens who have lost their jobs and lost their income. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one. young people, children and people belonging to vulnerable groups will be among the main beneficiaries of the european social fund+. children are the future of this society and we should support them as much as we can. the eu's policies should be geared towards this.
madam president, as the left group, we welcome the adoption of the structural funds for cohesion, but also of european territorial cooperation, one of the main pillars of the eu's cohesion policy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. on the other hand, we welcome the restriction of the link between territorial cooperation and the conditions for structural reforms. this allows for a particular focus on health, climate change and the integration of migrants and refugees. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the greatest possible support is needed in local communities for social cohesion and support for all those programmes which are aimed at people in need, but also at small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. cyprus is currently experiencing its worst tragedy since the 1974 invasion. simultaneous fires resulted in casualties, dozens of homes and businesses were burned, and 35 miles [55 km] of forests and villages were reduced to ashes. i invite you to stand with us. we need our european family at this time. i shall be very clear on the matter at hand. no pedophile should be able to act unchecked online and harass our children. we have to protect them. one in five children in the european union has been a victim of some form of sexual violence. it's our duty to ensure a safe internet for our children. the commission and the member states should step up coordination and strengthen the legislative framework. no law and no personal data can act as a shield for pedophiles.
in writing. with the slovenian presidency, we hope to see a more united and united europe. a europe that will put words into action and not merely condemn those who threaten its member states and challenge their sovereignty. the increase in security and stability is one of the priorities of this presidency. the european union must not allow any further fragmentation of its neighbourhood. european values and the rule of law are the basis for a europe of solidarity in the fields of health, the economy, energy, climate and cyberspace.
mr president, commissioner, europe deserves a round of applause for what you have done. just three months after the proposal to create a digital covid certificate, we have managed to have a secure certification system for all member states without discrimination. the fundamental right of free movement has been restored to european citizens. the disease is better controlled and citizens have started to travel. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine for the european union. it is absolutely essential that the vaccination targets in all member states be reached as soon as possible. this can only be achieved by fighting misinformation about both vaccination and the virus. the certificate should be supported by all of us for the duration of the pandemic. member states should coordinate better and improve the functioning of the certificate in order to fully restore the right of free movement. we can't afford to waste any more time.
mr president, commissioner, i have heard a lot from colleagues that the pandemic has taught us a lot. it taught us the most important thing: only together and united can we face situations like this. we must not only monitor but anticipate and tackle serious health issues together. europe must be able to operate autonomously and be able to handle health issues. commissioner, we owe you a debt of gratitude. as a cypriot, i am proud of the collective, calm and effective way in which you have dealt with the pandemic. the fact that we have a vaccination program, that we have vaccines, is largely due to you. we must continue to work together, because health concerns us all and has no borders.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. there are no rules governing either the rights to compensation in the event of illness or accident or the social security of these people. we must and must establish a legal framework which ensures a level playing field for fair and equal treatment of workers in these new forms of work. we cannot talk about a smooth digital transition in europe without safeguarding the fundamental rights of these workers, who have the same rights as everyone else. "many words are poverty", we say in greek. the pandemic has accelerated the need for digital transition, and we must follow suit, but without burdening any workers.
mr president, unfortunately, this year, in the midst of the pandemic, we have seen images of biblical destruction across europe. the dangerous side effects of the climate crisis and austerity policies can no longer be ignored. it has been shown in practice that the rescue eu mechanism cannot respond adequately and that it perpetuates shortcomings between states by recycling the surplus funds. in my own country, cyprus, which has also been hit by deadly fires, there was no quick response. unfortunately, the european planes arrived after the fires had been extinguished. in the face of the dramatic increase in the number of major natural disasters, the european union must therefore strengthen its solidarity policies to deal with these phenomena. in this connection, we would like to stress that we are calling for the establishment of a european air firefighting base in cyprus. the commission must provide effective support to those affected and must also ensure that the conditions for the sustainability of the solidarity fund are adequate. commissioner, fires are not just burning the forests. the fires threaten to burn the credibility of the european union's policies as well.
madam president, mr borrell, i know you are tired, i am the last speaker, you told us we would be self-critical and that is what i will do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot afford to be without a coordinated common policy to deal with serious situations. the need for a common foreign policy and a common army is more evident than ever. we have once again left a bright field of glory for turkey to take action and come forward as the regulator of the situation. i remind you that turkey used the refugee crisis to demand billions, threatening us all. today he's asking to take over security at kabul airport. oh, what a drag! let us at least decide, at least temporarily, that this time we will face the new wave of refugees together, that this time we will not take the easy way out, we will not put it on the european frontline countries.
madam president, mr borrell, last year's explosion in lebanon was heard as far as my home country of cyprus and really shocked us. the neighbours and friends from lebanon are suffering and that hurts us. they are a people who have suffered a great deal and deserve better days. a year later, the country is in a state of emergency. food and basic necessities are in short supply. the drugs are rare and mostly on the black market. even cancer patients can't get their medication, and that is tragic. the european union should be a great supporter and help the country. in addition to financial aid, the european union should play a significant role in promoting political stability in lebanon. we really hope that the new government announced four days ago will live long. this is the great responsibility of the political leaders of the country, who must now show unity of mind. the european union has a duty to help lebanon, and we must do so as europeans.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the eu on the way it has managed the pandemic. although the pandemic did not start in europe, the eu was called upon to manage this situation and the way it has done so gives us a positive sign. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. we need a common foreign policy and a common army. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, in the greek language a journalist is called dimosiográfos, meaning someone who writes and informs people. democracy means dimoskratía: people’s rule. if a people or a community of citizens is not freely informed, we cannot talk of democracy. unfortunately, media freedom violations in the eu reached their highest in the past five years. it’s unacceptable that journalists are intimidated, pressurised, attacked verbally and physically and even killed. the world press freedom index shows the tragic fall of poland from 18th to number 64. polish national media channels broadcast pro-government propaganda only, excluding opposition and minority groups. the education system is equally problematic. nationalism and ressentiment are dominant concepts in the education system. my country – cyprus – is not any better. recently the minister of education in cyprus ordered to tear out a page from a book because he disliked it. madam president, we are not doing well. it is high time that we take all the necessary steps so that the member states respect fundamental values.
mr president, commissioner, what have we learned from the pandemic in terms of the rights of people with disabilities? the most important thing: we have for some time been experiencing what they are experiencing in their daily lives, the closure and the barriers to free access. i hope that we have learned our lesson and that we have finally taken up our duty to guarantee them the obvious: accessibility and the right to work. i have already said, and i will repeat it to you, commissioner, that we need to institutionalize and legally guarantee the right of those who wish to work remotely after the pandemic. member states should fully implement the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the disabled are not discriminated against, and that the disabled are not discriminated against in any way. and the way is very simple: our policies improve their quality of life.
in writing. madam president, this motion/debate identifies the unspoken need to protect our citizens in the future from a new health crisis. hera can actively contribute to the process of strengthening the eu's resilience to future cross-border health threats. the pandemic has taught us many things. the most important thing is that only together can we face such threats. that is why hera is an important weapon to help prevent and respond to such crises to protect civilians.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. millions of people in europe will not be able to heat their homes this coming winter. already 60% of the population suffers from energy poverty. in my country, cyprus, energy poverty affects one in five of our fellow citizens. energy market reform is needed to bring prices down drastically and permanently. the european union must prohibit the interruption of energy supplies to consumers. support low-income households and small businesses, financially support significant electricity interconnection projects and help states such as cyprus to achieve the european target of 15% electricity interconnection by 2030 and, finally, through state control and public investment, ensure the human right to energy with equal access to cheap energy as a public social good.
mr president, commissioner, open pandora's box, or rather pandora's box, and justify the title of a book i read: it's capitalism, you fool. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. but let cyprus not be the target. my place is not what it appears on the lists. my land, my island, is inhabited by honest men, of toil and wages, with their cares and anxieties. after all, the problem is systemic. corruption, tax evasion, money laundering, all threaten to drown us as a byproduct of a rotten system. who will wash away the shame of all these leaders who, with a wave of their fingers, drink the blood of their people and at the same time, illegally enrich themselves? the commission shall: he refuses to comment. let him do something! there's the rose, there's the fuck!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it contributes to the maintenance of democratic, sustainable and inclusive societies, and only such societies have a place in our european family. but all these ambitious and beautiful things can only be achieved in one way: if we succeed in turning the 'i' that unfortunately prevails in europe today into a 'we'. only we can take us forward. it is only by putting the 'i' aside that we can bring about those changes which will give us a better and more humane europe for all, whether we are talking about artists or society in general. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the artist are respected. we need to fund their work, their ideas, their creation. europe means culture and culture means europe. it's time to prove it in action.
in writing. the recent ruling of the polish constitutional court lacks a legal basis and has a very negative impact on polish citizens and businesses. union law shall prevail over national law, including constitutional provisions. we call on the institutions to protect the citizens of poland and the union. all member states should respect the judgments of the court of justice of the european union as they are binding on all member states' authorities and national courts. we urge the polish government to implement these decisions.
in writing. mr borrell, when you talk about dictators like lukashenko, we should all look at ourselves in the mirror. in order for there to be dictators like lukashenko, you have let dictators like erdoğan go unpunished. now you're paying for what you did. what you sow, you reap.
the committee on culture and education has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of children against the dangers arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs roberta metsola, who took seriously the recommendations of the opinion of the committee on education and culture, for which i was rapporteur. giorgos karaivas, daphne caruana galizia, irina slavina, are some of the names that will haunt us, that will give us strength to fight for the defence of freedom of expression and the protection of journalists. in 2020 alone, 60 journalists lost their lives. two of them in europe. the lawsuits against journalists aimed at their economic and psychological impoverishment must be dealt with by specific actions, by a specific mechanism. free journalism means democracy. without free journalists, no one in europe can feel free. we will defend journalists and their right to freedom of the press, because that is how we defend democracy.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work on the report. it is of the utmost importance to provide additional funding for sport. sport has a unique power to promote and transmit values across borders and to unite people regardless of age, gender, origin, religion or socioeconomic status. it is also a vehicle for inclusion for people with fewer opportunities and helps to combat obesity.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the elderly. thirty million people suffer from rare diseases in europe. i'm going to focus on the role of corporations. it's unacceptable that there are no drugs for children with rare cancers, because it's not in the financial interest of the big pharmaceutical companies to produce them. many of these diseases require chronic, expensive treatments. if we want to talk about a humane europe, we must focus on a single health policy. we must support these people. the health of 30 million people living with a rare disease cannot be left to chance or to the interests of large corporations that see patients as mere numbers. we must ensure access to treatment for all european citizens. commissioner, thank you for being with us. human life is not sacrificed on the altar of pharmaceutical companies' profits and we must put an end to this behaviour.
mr president, unfortunately, domestic violence remains a widespread phenomenon in europe. one in five women in a relationship have experienced physical and or sexual violence by a partner or ex-partner. in many countries, half of family murder victims are killed by a partner or a relative. despite all of these undeniable facts, some eu member states are refusing to ratify the istanbul convention. some go so far as to consider it as promoting destructive gender ideology or same sex marriage. this is virtual patriarchy, which is one of the main reasons for the victimisation of women. it is a fact that low-level gender equality is one of the causes of gender violence. so also is toxic masculinity. let’s ratify the istanbul convention, but be aware that patriarchal structures cannot be deconstructed only with legal measures. we need also deep-rooted changes in all levels of life. we need absolute gender equality. above all, we need to raise our voice against patriarchy.
in writing. violence against women, both online and offline, is a crime that we should all show zero tolerance for. these forms of cyberbullying and hate speech against women are part of the process of violence, which often starts offline and continues online or vice versa. the increase in gender-based violence during the pandemic is particularly worrying. to address this, the commission should develop a protocol on gender-based violence in crisis situations, including protection services for victims. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the internet. we call on the commission and the member states to make greater use of existing measures to combat this phenomenon, such as the general data protection regulation, the directive on electronic commerce, and the directive on victims' rights. in parallel, we should further develop awareness campaigns for women and girls about cyber violence, their legal rights and available support services.
madam president, madam commissioner, as a man i want to express my admiration and respect for women who are fighting for the obvious, for their rights, for what should be taken for granted. it would be hypocritical to claim that there is equality in the european union between men and women. let's start from the beginning. at work, a wage gap of 14.1%. harassment in the workplace: the evidence is depressing, really. internet: lack of legal framework to combat new forms of harassment, such as revenge pornography, which are being identified and have increased during the pandemic. education for women in 13 member states: the situation is worsening according to the data, while in the other countries the situation remains unchanged for women. all of the above makes our work and mission as guardians of principles and values even more important. the european union cannot exist or function without equality in all areas and aspects of life. we must act immediately.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, 2022 will be dedicated to european youth, which, during the last decade, has been affected both by the financial crisis and covid—19, and has really suffered a lot. now young people will be in our focus. the european year of youth is a genuine opportunity for young people so that they are at the centre of our policies. most importantly, i wish that they themselves will be involved in the decision—making process at every level – at local, regional, national and eu level. the youth should be part of the whole design. it must genuinely become a year from the youth to the youth. that would be the real benefit of the year. young people’s needs and desires are well known. engagement and political participation, connections and exchange of experiences, education and empowerment, and, of course, employment, are the basic demands of young people. what is at stake now is to find solutions to these problems, solutions which show the outcome of a direct involvement and participation of youth. that is the aim and the challenge of a european year of youth. let me finish with a concluding remark. for everything to be in place by the start of the year, everyone who was involved in this procedure had to work hard and under time pressure. i hope this was a one—time procedure and shall not be repeated in the future.
mr president, commissioner, i am the last to speak and i will be very brief. once, a young woman, a victim of systematic harassment by her boss, asked him: "why are you doing this?" his answer was too simple. "because i can, " he replied. who gives a man the right to verbally or physically attack another man because he considers him vulnerable? who gives a man the right to regard another human being as a sex object without his will? because he just thinks he can do it? my dear colleagues, our role is to stop him, to make him unable to do it, to make the consequences so severe that he can no longer do it. me, too! and so i and each of us must join our voices and our forces and protect in the most drastic way possible those we love and those who are seen as vulnerable in the eyes of some people. me too will say i care, it will say i react, it will say i protect the victims. it'll say that i don't tolerate any form of harassment. all men are not the same. but if we know and we don't act, we're complicit. (applause from the centre and the right)
