madam president, i’m very pleased that the european court of auditors (eca) finally started conducting a performance assessment of annual eu spending. this allows us to evaluate the real impact of eu investments. unfortunately, member states are still providing us with very unreliable data. they are way too optimistic on the true value for money spent on local projects. this is our main challenge and it is why i believe that the eca should conduct more of its own audits. the high level of error in cohesion policy is especially concerning. there are very different results depending on the data used. it seems that 10% of bank agencies for cohesion funds are showing errors, as we are seeing in slovakia with a large corruption scandal. even more problematic are the huge conglomerates in central europe, like the agrofert group, which belongs to the czech prime minister, which shows deficiencies in managing eu subsidies, with a 67% error rate in the latest audit report. so i’m asking what can the eca and the commission do to reduce this high error rate and guarantee eu money is being spent responsibly?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if this period has taught us anything, it is that nothing is taken for granted. this applies twice as much to culture and heritage. the year 2018 has been declared the year of cultural heritage. the events held during the year attracted almost 13 million participants. this only shows how important our cultural heritage is and how much interest it has in european citizens. but 2018 must not be the end of it. in order to achieve this goal and to continue this action, we need better coordination of policies and funding for cultural heritage. i would expect the european commission to be very attentive to culture here. it is therefore very unfortunate that the commission does not address culture in its 2021 work programme. first of all, digitisation has enormous potential for cultural heritage that we must exploit. especially in a period when physical visits to cultural institutions are not possible, it shows how important and beneficial digitisation is for all of us.
for the verts/ale group. ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying that the technical assistance facility is for me a perfect example of the scale of the small but possible impact of a major instrument of european investment policy. it is in the interest of all of us that our states become more robust, more efficient and more transparent through reforms. as we see painfully in the current crisis, public administration must be able to withstand shocks and crises. it must be able to provide quality services to citizens and have their full confidence. this is best achieved through transparency. it's not just time lost in office, but as we sadly see, lives can be lost as a result. investing in support for reforms is clearly worthwhile. i am also very pleased that we as a parliament have produced very good material. material to introduce broad transparency and publicity of results and studies produced under the technical assistance facility. i see this as a vital necessity for the instrument to support public administration reform. citizens have the right to know what data, with whom and why changes are taking place in their state. i must express my disappointment that the council has clearly opposed transparency in the trials. i find that very unfortunate even from the standpoint of nation states. please note that transparency of the state apparatus and the inclusion of citizens in decision-making are not a threat, but a way to manage public affairs more effectively.
vaccines are in short supply across the eu and the commission is under fire. i predicted it at christmas, and now it's coming to fruition as everyone sees the speed of vaccination in israel, britain, the arab gulf states, and even the chaotic united states. where did the ec go wrong? first, she was playing too cheap. israel and other eu countries overpaid, so they get priority delivery. they calculated that doubling the price of the vaccine was still more economical than two weeks of extra restrictions on the free movement of people. second, the ec refused to take legal responsibility for collateral health problems following vaccination. in the us, the uk and israel, the state and the insurance companies took over. third, the approval procedure at the ema is bureaucratic and time-consuming. finally, for the fourth time, the political balance prevailed in the ec. the french were pushing for the ec to sign a contract in september to buy 300 million doses from sanofi, despite the fact that it was clear that it was far behind schedule. on the contrary, the contracts with the us companies pfizer and moderna, which are the only ones approved for use so far, were concluded in small quantities and late, in the second half of november. these four reasons for delay show exactly where the eu is lagging behind the rest of the world. it is not able to react quickly, it is not able to take risks, bureaucracy complicates decision-making, the european powers pursue their own interests without regard for the others.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues very much for a very interesting discussion. once again, i want to thank you for the report you have worked on in parliament. i think we are very much aligned on contributing together, as policymakers, to have a very good report on the revision of the trans—european transport network (ten-t) guidelines. we will soon publish the results of our own evaluation of the current ten—t guidelines. we are launching simultaneously the impact assessment for the new ten—t regulation as of february. our legislative proposal for the revised ten—t regulation is planned for the autumn, but is part of a larger package for sustainable and smart mobility. we will present it together with a revision on the directive on intelligent transport systems, including a multimodal decoupling initiative, and also the rail corridor initiative, including the revision of the rail freight corridors regulation actions to boost passenger rail. i’m saying that because i noticed that a lot of you have highlighted the importance of policies to support the development of rail. thank you again for the promotion of our proposal. this year is the european year of rail and i encourage you to come forward with initiatives and support our work towards increasing the importance of rail in our transport policies at european level. a lot of you talked about rail, but also about multimodal transport. let me reassure you that it is also my vision that transport nodes and urban nodes - so ports, airports, ferry terminals, passenger hubs - need to be given increased attention given their vital role as enablers for efficient and sustainable multimodal transport. i also noticed the interest you have in the development of an alternative fuel infrastructure. it is something which is in our working programme and we are committed to increasing the deployment of such stations across europe. i also notice your concerns regarding the resilience of the infrastructure, the maintenance work, the delays, especially on cross-border projects, and of course on funding. you are right in all of them. these are also my concerns but we have decided to try to address all of this. i believe that, with all the financial instruments which will be available, including the resilience and recovery facility, we’ll have a better benefit in financing our projects. thank you again for your interest. i’m absolutely sure we will continue to have opportunities to exchange views on this. i count on your support and on your contribution to our proposal coming in the autumn.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today and the final vote tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the upcoming ten-t review should ultimately focus not only on addressing and completing the backlog of transport infrastructure expansion, modernisation and revitalisation and on completing the priority ten-t core network by 2030, but also on flexibly addressing the current route qualification within the complementary network and on including new projects in the core network. the eu's approach to the ten-t has so far been to develop east-west links, thus allowing delays in the development of connections and socioeconomic development of the regions in central and eastern europe. the ten-t review is an opportunity to make up for losses and to channel the flow of funding towards projects connecting northern and southern europe, and in particular towards investments in the countries of the central and eastern flanks. only this approach will allow the most important growth centres to be connected to the less dynamic areas and to be integrated into the european ten-t transport network. unfortunately, my regions warmia and mazury and podlasie still qualify as the least accessible regions, despite the fact that two ten-t core corridors run through them. the s7 expressway is part of the baltic-adriatic transport corridor, and the s61 road is part of the north sea-baltic corridor. sustainable development requires the simultaneous development of road and rail links. only this approach will help to revive the local economy, attract new investment to the region and translate into new job creation.
in writing. – i welcome the revision of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) regulation since it is an important opportunity to ensure necessary investments to roll out a smart, efficient, interoperable and sustainable multimodal transport infrastructure that will enhance not only the efficiency of the single european transport area but also bring a multitude of consequential benefits to the internal market. for example, it gives the commission the opportunity to assess whether to integrate the newly mapped out proposals to reduce bottlenecks at cross-border points. czech authorities have made proposals which would maximise the reduction in emissions and significantly improve conditions for passenger and freight transport in the czech republic. one such example is on newly projected aspects of the high speed line (hsl) on the berlin-prague-vienna corridor. the ten-t revision gives the commission the opportunity to support this by including it project within the ten-t core network and core network corridors. the ten-t revision will aid the implementation of a europe-wide network that will bring new opportunities for of all modes of transport, strengthening competitiveness and digitalisation, key components of smart and sustainable mobility.
madam president, let me make one thing clear: i condemn the recent attacks on the capitol as well as donald trump’s statements. however, i am also concerned about how much power dominant online platforms have, and by the fact that they have been taking over essential functions that belong to democratic institutions. deciding what is appropriate and denying people the right to speak by suspending their accounts without a court order is a dangerous practice. today it is donald trump, but whose account will be suspended tomorrow? this is not how democracy and justice should work. in a democratic society, only independent courts can decide what is illegal. we need to update our legislation. reform bills introduced via the american legislation regulating platforms have not been successful. now it’s time for europe to lead by example with the digital services act.
madam president, what does gender equality mean in the context of gender ideology and gender perspective? well, you don't know, because it's not consistent, because sometimes the concept of gender is used to refer to women. that's right, victimized. others, to dissociate the biological sex of the person, invent as many categories as ways of feeling. it's an emotionist theory, without any scientific basis and against nature. we are talking about an ideology that says it defends equality, but then it highlights only the differences, creates gaps, compares us, pits women against men, generating loneliness and hopelessness. let us admire the beauty of our complementarity, the relationships of trust, the unity. why don't we listen to people's yearnings while respecting our natural identity? we celebrate womanhood, motherhood. we protect life! all civilizations have done this. don't play us. we are not products of genetic engineering.
madam president, 2020 was tough for women. it pushed women out of the labour market more often than men and we know that job losses during a crisis have long—term lasting effects. women might never get back what they have lost in terms of their professional careers and salaries. the pandemic created a situation that might require new ways of moving toward labour opportunities and getting women involved in the digital transition. as the commissioner is aware, we are at a moment when an important gender skills gap could further grow, we must go the extra mile and multiply efforts to ensure that the digital upskilling of women is not just an afterthought, but a clear priority. if the gap grows, it will be a loss for an entire society, not only women. we are now in the crucial time of planning for the new generation eu. this strategy must be inclusive of women’s talents, gifts and skills, but we do not have a critical mass of women in decision-making bodies so we must remain particularly vigilant, and ensure that reforms and policies in response to the crisis put an emphasis on engaging women in digital technologies because that gap must not grow. let me conclude by underlining that digital skills should be seen in the context of a fast—changing society, emerging new needs, new patterns of relations, the growing importance of social skills and a more collaborative society. we must remember that this is an environment where women thrive.
madam president, the current coronavirus pandemic has affected the whole of society, but men and women differently and gender equality has certainly not moved europe forward. women have a key role to play in addressing the current crisis, and their economic power will be key if we are to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. i therefore recall our call for the swift implementation of the family and work life interconnection directive in the individual member states, for the unblocking of negotiations on key documents such as the call for ratification of the istanbul convention and the call for greater support for women's involvement in digitisation, technical studies and the green deal. lastly, i ask the commission to submit without further delay a proposal for binding measures on transparency of remuneration. i believe we have a chance to emerge from this crisis as a society without stereotypes, without defining the role of women and without paving the way for marginalization or domestic violence, which unfortunately has increased significantly in this crisis. we have to want to.
mr president, china has shown us enough. it showed us everything we europeans fought in the past: concentration camps, genocide, taking one’s country for its own, sending people to jail for their opinions, creating causes to subdue the population. ring any bells? let me apologise to hong kong citizens for talking mainly about china when all our eyes should be on you. but this is simply not enough. we have another resolution condemning beijing’s actions, while our eu colleagues are shaking hands with xi jinping, striking pompous investment deals. later today, we will talk about the deteriorating situation in vietnam. some tried to persuade me last year that a trade deal would help human rights. man, were they wrong. are we really making the same mistake again? do you really not care? ms von der leyen, mr macron, ms merkel, mr michel, this is not my european union. our values are not for sale.
mr. chairman, i'm not sure i understand. the fact that the coronavirus has already changed our labour market is now clear to all, and this discussion is timely indeed. decisions are also being taken on the number of places in education systems. i shall mention only two sectors today. first, the people who are at the top of the need for human resources are those who are in the field of information technology, computer science. this knowledge will be very important for our future. we in the european parliament also stress the importance of digitisation for our society and if we want to achieve this we must build on these technical professions. the other area is the health field. many european health systems have been plunged into an even greater crisis during the pandemic, not because of equipment, but because of staffing shortages, which are severe in at least some parts of the european union. but the pandemic is a short-term challenge, much greater is the aging of the population, when we will need a lot of staff to take care of our health in a holistic way. we have to think about all this today, not next year. all the calls for education systems to adapt to the market are traditional, but the first step must be taken. i hope that the commission will do everything in its power to support such steps and thus ensure the implementation of the skills agenda for a more competitive europe.
mr president, according to cedefop, almost half of all eu workers will need to update their skills and/or gain new ones to get or keep jobs and to embrace the opportunities of the digital and the green transitions, and therefore we socialists and democrats fully support the eu commissioners’ efforts in implementing the skills agenda and the european pillar of social rights by pushing member states to join this path in order to leave no one behind. member states must use money from eu funds – the recovery fund included – to adapt their education and training systems. vulnerable groups must have an equal access to education, skilling and upskilling. the eu and member states must avoid the creation of new gaps resulting from unequal access to technology, especially between generations, gender and between rural areas and cities. as socialists and democrats, we will stand with eu citizens and will support them to embrace transition without forgetting to strengthen, next to their skills, also their personal development and critical thinking. in a changing world, being aware of the necessity of the new skills agenda is crucial for both workers and employers.
mr. chairman, the coronavirus pandemic has absolutely changed our lives. instead of meeting each other every day, we've moved to an online scene, including jobs and education. this has greatly increased existing inequalities and complicated people's lives, and this is where the european skills agenda can help. it is important to think about the disabled and other citizens who, for various reasons, live on the margins of society or in poverty. these people are not only at risk from the current coronavirus crisis, but also from the transition to a more digital world and the green economy associated with the transition. it is therefore very important to ensure that programmes develop precisely this training and skills that will be relevant to the changing future labour market. the labour market will be strongly affected by digitalisation and the transition to green energy. we must not forget to promote internet access for all in these programmes. only then can we use the current situation to create a more just society and equal access for all of our citizens.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues who have been working on getting this recovery funding getting to a really credible european investment programme that we have been fighting for in this parliament for a very long while. so i think that is really good, and it is also true that thanks to parliament there is now credible greening and investment in digitalisation which was not the case beforehand. but now the real work starts. it’s about the implementation. and here really to the portuguese presidency: you have been fighting for a credible european investment programme. it’s now in the hands of the member states to deliver credible national recovery plans, and really this needs to be done in full transparency. this needs to be under public scrutiny to really see that these are really true investments and not just repackaging of money. and this is also to the commission: when you are judging it, do it in transparency, don’t do this behind closed doors which is ongoing right now. and then the last point. this is about european investment money, but we all know the real investments are still at the national level, thousands of billions of euros. let’s make sure that goes in the right direction as well, otherwise this european investment fund will not deliver enough.
i am convinced that europe and my country, hungary, have won many times by having the economic recovery fund after six years of hard battles. first, because the polish and hungarian governments resisted the incredibly strong pressure, exercised their right under the treaties, and thus prevented political and ideological disputes from being settled by deprivation of resources. all european citizens have benefited by the fact that blackmail has not been included in the eu's budget. the rule of law is more important to them than allowing it to be abused by some. second, the union has shown that it can learn from past crisis management mistakes. with the squeeze, with the immobilization of workers, smes, families, there is no growth. we've been running a labor economy and many of the old family policies for years, creating jobs through investment and structural reform. at home, there is a social dialogue, where citizens express their opinions on development plans. thirdly, this instrument is a chance to make europe competitive again. the goal is not to return to the old ways, but to take the gloves off the competition. hungary is a partner in europe finally setting out on a sustainable path in both environmental and economic terms, to appear on the digital stage as well. if we do not do this now, our grandchildren will only hear about the european way of life, the envy of all. it is our shared responsibility to spend resources efficiently and to the last penny. i ask the commission to help the member states to accept individual considerations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have an emergency at this moment: to ensure that the resources of the recovery and resilience facility reach the real economy, workers and businesses as soon as possible and without delay. europe has been able to provide an unprecedented response to an unprecedented crisis and has shown that it is not just a great single market but a community of destiny, a community of solidarity. for the first time we have a common debt issue and common objectives to achieve to get back on track. this fund will be a success if we do not waste resources on expenditure which is still geared to the past, but we can really direct them towards the economy of the future. we have an opportunity to turn this dramatic crisis into an opportunity to radically change the model of development and growth and to make it more person-centred, more equitable, more socially and environmentally sustainable. these are the only real conditionalities we should all be looking at and we should put aside the macroeconomic ones of the austerity season, which we believe are definitely over, and work to ensure that the rules that still apply to them are changed to take account of the new reality that we have before us.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the european union recovery plan is a major contribution to the economic recovery and to dealing with the consequences of the pandemic. but we need to launch it as soon as possible, focusing on the sectors most affected and, with a view to the future, on the strategic areas. for the czech republic, for example, the plan means an injection of over czk 180 billion in direct payments and hundreds of billions more in possible loans. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase of furniture and the purchase of furniture, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, and the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors. as we have seen in this crisis, there is also a need to invest in healthcare and, among other things, in modernising transport and infrastructure. the european plan has the potential to accelerate the return to pre-crisis levels and strengthen our economy overall, and we should seize this opportunity.
madam president, i don’t have questions for mr borrell as, mr borrell, you won’t answer me anyway, anymore. instead, i want to speak about what is important right now: the thousands of russians in the streets being beaten and detained and many more of them that don’t want a corrupted government and hoped for support from the international community. with your ill—executed visit, you not only ashamed european citizens, you also helped putin and harmed the russian people. you provided a mafia state with more images and sound bites to make us look weak and corrupt, and make the kremlin’s regime look legitimate. you also failed to visit navalny or at least support him during his trial. a missed opportunity to back up the eu’s strong claims about this case and to bring at least a little dignity through this visit. for this public damage, you should step down from your post immediately.
yesterday, many of us signed a letter to the president of the european commission, mr borrell, calling for your resignation. your visit to moscow, at the time and place, was in our opinion humiliating and dishonorable for the eu. you set out on this journey of your own free will, despite many warnings. by remaining silent on russia's war in ukraine, by ignoring the imprisonment of alexei navalny and the beating of peaceful protesters in russian streets, you have turned your back on the values on which the eu is built. what a striking contrast to another social democrat, former dutch foreign minister maxi van der stoel, who visited prague in 1977 and met with the persecuted charter 77 spokesman, professor jan patoček, to express his full solidarity. but your path was also wrong from the point of view of real politics. by rejecting new sanctions and not immediately ending the visit when the diplomats of poland, germany and sweden were expelled from russia, you have condemned the eu to the role of a defenseless statistic and a weak, derided whipping boy. the best thing you can do for the eu in this situation is to step down as soon as possible.
madam president, democratic scrutiny and protection of fundamental rights has to go hand-in-hand with addressing the issue of the dominant position of some tech platforms. recent events in the united states demonstrated that large platforms, due to their size, have a systemic role in amplifying and shaping information flows and create parallel information bubbles. with the new digital markets act, we need to enable an environment where people can not only scrutinise if they are being targeted by malicious actors via the platform, but also gain back effective control, where they have a choice to switch to an alternative, decentralised, open and privacy-friendly service. only in this case can democratic scrutiny and the protection of fundamental rights have full effect.
in writing. social media platforms are hubs for the public. for this reason, their interference in the opinion-forming process has particularly serious consequences, while their activities and decision-making on user-submitted content are not transparent. the european union has allowed some self-regulation in the way online platforms operate, but now, in a new digital services package, it is setting the right direction and putting a limit on the digital leaders. it is of paramount importance that the union acts in a unified manner in this area and that the eu does so on a member state basis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. it should be taken into account that each member state of the european union has different national characteristics and regulatory environments. there are differences between member states as to what constitutes illegal content under national criminal codes. the member state authorities have the necessary experience in the operation of digital platforms at member state level. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure the protection of the union's financial interests.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. unfortunately, we haven't made the progress we would have liked in fighting the coronavirus. that means we're going to have to live with the economic dislocation for a while. this in turn means that many companies will be in a difficult, very difficult situation for a while, and will have to draw heavily on their equity reserves. as legislators - and this is one of our highest duties here - we must set the course for this to be possible. public support measures are the one side. we must also ensure that the best possible financing conditions are in place on the markets, especially for companies financed by the capital markets. with the targeted changes to mifid, we are doing exactly that by making it a little bit easier for professional market participants to act in the markets. at the same time, we have made it easier to provide equity analysis for small listed companies, making them more attractive to investors. and finally, we also drew some lessons from the crisis for retail investors, so that the process of investment advice works even when the client cannot physically sit or stand in front of their advisor. i am sure that these are just small adjustments, but they are many small adjustments, but in the aggregate they can make a big difference and will therefore also help the economic recovery. and let me be very clear: those who want to support the economic recovery cannot vote against the capital markets recovery package, and they cannot vote against the adjustments in mifid. that is why i have always said quite clearly that i cannot understand why our dear colleagues from the social democrats have already made it clear that they want to vote against it today. in the negotiations i tried to improve the financing of smes in particular. it's being criticized now for not doing it. who was against it? the social democrats, the greens and the communists were against it. i wish you had come. not making press releases, but participating! it would have been better. the same applies to the question of advice: we are not giving up anything for the private investor! but no one can explain to me why a professional investor, a pension fund or a bank needs exactly the same documents as a private investor! cutting costs here helps everybody in the end. what's the big deal? and then - we've just had a nice debate about fake news - fake news is really spreading. and this is about the question of commodity derivatives. no one in this house wants to speculate on food. but what we urgently need is that the underdeveloped markets in electricity - derivatives on electricity supplies, price hedges on electricity supplies - that these markets can finally develop. our system does not fit there, and we only change it there, and that is clearly regulated. i would ask you to read what we have adopted. but what irritates me most is that i have to read in a press release from the socialists and democrats that this is a conservative mifid story. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the commission proposal on which we have agreed in substance, which we have adapted and changed in a few small places together with the commission. it's not my business! what are you writing here? so i really ask you to reconsider your position. we have made a special break in the trilogue negotiations because of the wishes of the social democrats. in the end, you agreed. now you say no. ladies and gentlemen, it is about taking responsibility - taking responsibility for the fact that we are able to contribute, by means of small, targeted, tailor-made adjustments, to the fact that the capital markets also help to finance small and mediumsized enterprises. i'll say it again, you were against it. it is about making sure that we reduce red tape. they were against it. the point is that we develop the underdeveloped power plants in such a way that a green deal can even work, so that a cooperative that runs a wind farm or a solar plant can even compete with the big corporations through capital market hedges. they were against it. i'm disappointed in that. i hope that there is still a majority in this house to be able to make these tailor-made, targeted, really good changes so that the capital markets can help companies to recover as quickly as possible. we as the epp, and i as rapporteur, are naturally in favour of this. all the others are invited to follow this good and successful path.
rapporteur. – madam president, the focus of this plenary session has been on boosting the public finances for economic recovery. we adopted the recovery and resilience facility, and rightly so, but at the same time, we must not neglect the mobilisation of private capital. the pandemic is extremely challenging both for investors and companies. they need financial injections through investments, they need access to finance but, above all, they need simple and straightforward procedures with minimal red tape, without, of course, compromising investors’ protection. the capital markets recovery package is integral to the economic recovery of the eu following the covid-19 pandemic. by introducing targeted changes to some capital market rules, it encourages greater investments in the economy and helps ensure quick re-capitalisation of companies. it will also increase the capacity of banks to finance that recovery. the two pieces of this package we are voting on this week will ensure that europe is in the best place possible to help our markets, financial institutions and businesses recover from this crisis, and here i would like to join the call of the previous rapporteur and invite all of you to support this package. i am proud of the outcome of our negotiations on the prospectus regulation, and here i would like to thank both the council and the commission for their cooperation for a very quick and productive negotiation process. the prospectus might be a little bit cryptic thing for non-economists but in short it’s a document providing all necessary information about a company you are about to invest in. removing temporarily extra costs and administration for companies allows them to access the finance that they need more quickly. and the recovery prospectus does just that. the adjustments that we have made will help companies to raise capital through shares instead of going deeper into debt. they will facilitate fundraising by banks, which will have a vital role to play in the recovery of the real economy. specifically, we have introduced a new, lightweight, recovery prospectus. this will be a temporary prospectus that can be used by those companies who have already listed on the markets. the recovery prospectus will be available for secondary issuances, to issuers of shares, until the end of 2022, and will be limited to 30 pages in length, compared to the current market average of 400 pages. as you can imagine, this will significantly cut costs by hundreds of thousands of euros for those wishing to raise capital, and this is around half of the current cost of producing a secondary issuance prospectus. while the businesses will have fewer costs and less red tape to deal with, we have ensured that investor protection has remained at the forefront of the negotiations. for example, issuers will have to disclose what their level of capital is compared to their indebtedness, as well as a working capital statement. they will also have to publicly outline what will be done with the money invested in their company. if investors are to invest in a company in these turbulent times, it is only right that they also know how much the current situation with the pandemic has affected the company they are considering investing in. therefore, in the recovery prospectus, issuers will have to lay out clearly how covid-19 has affected their businesses. overall, i am convinced that we have struck the right balance between a streamlined prospectus and ensuring investor protection, while transparency is maintained at the highest level. commissioner, colleagues, businesses in europe have suffered enormously due to the current situation. significant uncertainty remains, not least for the service sector. the temporary changes we introduced in the prospectus regulation will provide financial security to businesses across europe. the capital markets recovery package will give breathing space to the financial sector. this will also allow financial institutions to provide for businesses to keep them afloat. let’s continue to reflect on the simplification of legislation also for the future in the post-pandemic context. a good balance between regulation, safeguards and the freedom to innovate should guide us in our review of capital markets legislation. i am sure you will agree that we must do all we can to help businesses, especially smes, to weather the storm and come through the pandemic with the ability to grow again. they could then become powerhouses that will support europe as we embark on the digital and green transitions. the recovery package as a whole is only a short-term solution. during the next few years, we must work to ensure a resilient and future-proof framework for our financial markets. in europe, there is a lot of potential for the capital markets union. we only need willingness to break down the barriers that have hindered cross-border access to finance until now. i firmly believe that bold and ambitious reforms to our financial framework will allow us to compete on every level with other jurisdictions around the globe.
before continuing with the debates, i will open today’s voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 18.30 until 19.45. the same voting methods will be used as during the last part-sessions. for the vote on the immunities, voting will be by secret ballot. members will be able to cast their votes in the usual way, but the ballot paper that they receive for signature will not display the way they voted, only the fact that they have voted. all other votes will be held by roll call. explanations of votes may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of votes containing a maximum of 400 words will be accepted. i declare the voting session open. you have until 19.45 to vote. the results of the votes will be announced tomorrow at 9.00.
we now continue with the debate on the report by yannick jadot (a9—0019/2021).
if we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally, it is clear that we cannot do without a tool that will also get countries outside the eu to act. however, we need to ensure that such a mechanism is genuinely compatible with wto rules and complements (not replaces) a functioning emissions trading system. it has recently entered its fourth phase and continues to correctly count on the maintenance of free allowances for the most energy-intensive operations. the yannick jadota report reflects this in principle, but the key will be how the commission now reacts, which is to come up with a concrete legislative proposal. it must not harm european exporters in energy-intensive industries such as ceramics, porcelain and glass.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is continuing and we are still in the same framework of governance and sustainable economy. once again, i would like to welcome your own-initiative report. it stresses the major importance of the single market for construction products. but as you know, much remains to be done to make this market fully operational. and the commission is counting on the support of the european parliament in this respect and is looking forward to our continued cooperation towards this common objective. i thank you again for all the contributions you have made to this report and to the debate this evening. i hope that we can indeed make progress along the lines outlined in the own-initiative report.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the european commission i welcome your report on the implementation of the employment equality directive. we fully agree that an inclusive and accessible workplace is vital for persons with disabilities to be able to participate in the labour market, and we welcome the ideas and the recommendations which you put forward on this topic. as you rightly pointed out in your report, having the right skills and qualifications is a prerequisite for accessing and succeeding in the labour market, and participation in employment is the best way to ensure economic independence and social inclusion. we also support your call for a non-discriminatory workplace. discrimination has no place in the eu, and therefore we pay significant attention to the implementation of the eu equality directives, including the employment equality directive. this debate is very timely. just a few days ago, the commission launched a new strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities. it builds on our previous exchanges on your report, on the evaluation of the previous strategy, and on a broad consultation with key partners which took place last year. the strategy confirms the great attention that the commission attaches to equality and non-discrimination and its commitment to implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities within the field of eu competences. we know that this house provides the same level of attention to this area of policy as we do, and i thank rapporteur langensiepen and the whole committee on employment and social affairs (empl) for their continuous work on this topic. your contribution is very important for us. the commission is continuously monitoring the implementation of the employment equality directive. it is currently preparing its third report on the directive’s application, together with the application of the racial equality directive. in preparing the new report we took due account of the report by mep langensiepen, as well as of the related european parliament study. i fully agree that awareness of the rights and obligations deriving from the eu equality directive is essential for employers and for workers. reasonable accommodation of persons with disabilities has also to be better understood and applied in practice by employers. i also agree that poor and uneven enforcement and low sanctions of violations may diminish the effectiveness of eu law. i am also well aware that the directive does not legally require member states to designate an equality body, while equality bodies play a central role in the implementation of the equal treatment directives. the upcoming commission report will touch upon all these issues. on this basis, the commission may propose, as appropriate, a legislative initiative aiming at strengthening the role of equality bodies. our new disability strategy promotes the social and economic inclusion and participation of people with disabilities in society, free from discrimination and in full respect of their rights on equal basis with others. first, the strategy emphasises that the job environment needs to be accessible. accessibility and reasonable accommodation must go together to create appropriate conditions for inclusive labour markets. we will pay close attention to the correct implementation and evaluation of all eu rules regulating accessibility and identify gaps and needs for further legislative actions. the action plan on the european pillar of social rights announced the target of an employment rate of 78 percent for the adult population with the 2030 horizon. yet the employment gap between persons with and without disabilities remains high, and further actions are needed to reduce it. the strategy aims at fostering access to quality and sustainable employment. in 2022, the commission will present a package to improve labour market outcomes of persons with disabilities, seeking further cooperation with the european network of public employment services, social partners and organisations of persons with disabilities. we also call on the member states to establish targets for increasing the employment rate of persons with disabilities and to facilitate self-employment and entrepreneurship. we encourage the use of eu funds. the commission will also continue to promote inclusive education, which lays the foundations for an inclusive labour market. free movement is a basic right and a fundamental eu freedom. persons with disabilities still face obstacles in their enjoyment of this right, among others, because their disability status is not recognised among member states. to improve this, we propose to build on the pilot project of the european disability card, implemented so far in eight member states, with a view to extending it by the end of 2023 to all member states. and yes, we at the commission want to lead by example. we will adopt a renewed hr strategy that will include actions to promote diversity and inclusion of persons with disabilities. furthermore, we intend to act in the areas of accessibility of our buildings and communication. we know that a strong commitment is needed to implement this strategy successfully and to support persons with disabilities to fully enjoy their rights. we will work closely with member states, stakeholders, persons with disabilities, and we want to work closely with all the stakeholders, especially with persons with disabilities. nothing about persons with disabilities without persons with disabilities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, commissioner for equality helena dalli, i am intervening in this debate to present the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs with three coordinates in mind. the first is the own-initiative report on the level of implementation of the directive in force in 2000. the second is the commission's strategy on the rights of persons with disabilities 2021-2030. there is also the united nations convention, binding on the european union as international law and the source of union law; but the third is the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, articles 21, 26 and 34 of which are definitive in their mandates to include, integrate and promote the personal autonomy of persons with disabilities. the message i want to send on behalf of the libe committee is that it is time for the council to unblock the equal treatment directive and that this should naturally be added to the directive in force, which guarantees the rights of disabled people to access employment, because the equal treatment directive has been blocked by the council for more than ten years, so much so that it was negotiated before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is time for it to go through the ordinary legislative procedure.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr glinne, rapporteur. madam president, the fact that people with disabilities still face many challenges and discrimination related to accessibility, participation in employment, education and mobility is unacceptable. it is also unacceptable that many employers still do not take appropriate measures to address these vital issues. i therefore call on the european commission to take effective measures in cooperation with disabled people's organisations and the social partners to achieve the social and economic inclusion of disabled people. member states should ensure that the employment of persons with disabilities is included in their national reform programmes. nor can the pandemic be an excuse for excluding our fellow citizens with disabilities. today, on international women's day, we highlight the role of women, who have the primary responsibility for the care of children and dependants with disabilities, and that women with disabilities face double discrimination.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. other i have to say, madam president, it would be good if we had a podium here that was adjustable and whatever was accessible, then our speaker could have been speaking down here as well. i hope that will change in the future. dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the right for fair paid work, to an inclusive and well accessible workplace for persons with disabilities is far from being a reality in europe. the european union counts 100 million persons with disabilities, and they suffer from too much discrimination on the labour market. in the eu only 50.6% of persons with disabilities are employed compared to 74.8% of persons without disabilities. today on international women's day it is important to underline that women with disabilities continue to face multiple and intersectional discrimination in all areas of life. this must change and we must step up our efforts. all eu policies must be aligned with the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. therefore, this excellent report of ms katrin langensiepen, where i had the honour to be the shadow s&d rapporteur comes very timely. timely are also the new eu disability strategy, the proposed directive on pay transparency and the action plan for the european pillar on social rights presented by commissioners dali and schmit a few days ago. we socialists and democrats fully support the commission's proposals and therefore this excellent report because it contains many of our priorities. allow me to enumerate a few of them: we need a revision of the equal treatment in employment and occupation directive, a revision that has to be a participatory process, including organisations of people with disabilities, just like the rapporteur did while drafting this report. we must introduce compulsory quotas for diversity in the workplace with effective and proportionate sanctions. we need a harmonised definition of disability in order to ensure mutual recognition of the disability status and allow free movement in the eu. we must further develop social economy, make sure all sheltered workshops comply with the uncrpd. sheltered workshops must provide people with disabilities skills to gain employment in the open labour market. in sheltered workshops, persons with disabilities must be covered by social security, good working conditions and minimum wages. member states must use tax incentives and support financial measures for companies that employ persons with disabilities. in 2021, we can no longer tolerate that so many persons with disabilities suffer multiple and intersectional discrimination. we therefore urge rapid ratification of the istanbul convention, the unblocking in the council of the horizontal anti-discrimination directive and the inclusion of the gender dimension in all eu policies.
i am honoured to have been renew europe's rapporteur for this report. disability issues are a matter of the heart for me. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is based on equality, guarantees all human rights to persons with disabilities and promotes their active participation in life, including inclusion in the labour market. education and employment are essential for independent living, and that means being a full member of society, not just a recipient of benefits. too many people with disabilities are out of work in the european union. only 50.6% of disabled people are employed, compared with 74.8% of non-disabled people. that means that a large part of our citizens cannot be part of the community. that means they're poorer. it means they can't show how smart and talented they are. the european institutions and member states in the public administration should lead by example in this area and put in place appropriate measures to implement the un convention. this includes establishing binding diversity rules for the recruitment of people with disabilities and the employment of people with all types of disabilities at all levels. we cannot continue to be world leaders in human rights protection as the european union if we fail as institutions to ensure equal working conditions. people with disabilities are not a cohesive group. everyone has a different identity and sometimes this can lead to cross-cutting or multiple discrimination, for example in the case of lgbti people with disabilities or women with disabilities, of whom only 21% work full-time. i see the importance of using digitalisation as a great opportunity to create a fairer society and an opportunity to increase the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. i want to thank all the colleagues who have given their time to this press.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, we are very pleased with the agreement reached on investeu at the end of last year, also because parliament played a strong role reinforcing important elements of the regulation. i would like to thank everyone involved, and in particular the co-rapporteurs josé manuel fernandes and irene tinagli for their commitment and constructive stubbornness. the programme will bolster, as you know, future-oriented investments across the eu. it will provide crucial support to companies, which is even more important in view of the still ongoing crisis. we need private investments for the eu policy priorities such as the green deal and the digital transition and the resilience of our societies. and we need them especially after the pandemic of course. with an estimate of a drop in private investment for the next years, and with the clear policy goal not to repeat what happened with the previous crisis – we know that in the previous crisis a net public (net) investment went practically to zero – so we have to reinforce our capacity of public investment and of crowding private investment. with a guarantee of 26 billion, investeu will mobilise an investment of more than eur 370 billion in europe. this is with some caution. we didn’t use figures in this situation that cannot be effectively reached. the defining elements remain the eu guarantee that will be open to the eib group and to national promotion banks and other international institutions, with a split of 75:25 percent. the guarantee will be allocated to the foreign policy windows, as reminded to us by the rapporteurs, and the programme also benefits from the additional elements agreed by the co-legislators and in which parliament has and the rapporteurs have been instrumental. first, investeu will contribute to the recovery efforts as member states can use it as a tool to implement their national rrs plans. and i have to say that a number of member states have already informally signalled to the commission their interest in this possibility. second, the possibility for implementing partners to provide capital support to smes. it is very important, as our rapporteurs just reminded us. third, in addition to the ambitious climate targets, investeu will provide for a dedicated scheme to generate additional investment to benefit just transition territories and also this in complementarity with other funds i think is very important. and last, but not least, parliament obtained an increase of the budget through the mff top-ups of one billion and supported the possibility to combine them with the investeu guarantee and with legacy instruments like the juncker plan. so investeu might not be in the limelight today but it remains a deeply innovative budgetary tool using budgetary guarantees to crowd in private and public investment in a cost-efficient use of taxpayers’ money. and the commitment from the commission to use our investment hub to make this happen is a very strong one. we don’t just plough in money; we align private investment with our policy priorities and channel their funds into public goods. so looking ahead, this approach is an efficient way to meet the growing investment needs of the twin transition, but also for our social model.
chair of the committee on culture and education. – madam president, the cultural and creative sectors are of strategic importance to the union as they generate important societal market value and they have a high potential for innovation. as the eu flagship investment programme, investeu has a strong potential to kick-start the european economy and in particular to boost social investment and investment in human capital. this covers education and training, and the cultural and creative sectors. these sectors have been hard hit by the current covid-19 crisis. in its opinion, the cult committee’s aim is looking to reinforce the position of the cultural and creative sectors as regards their access to financing through the investeu programme. the investeu programme should therefore support critical infrastructure, also in the audiovisual, media, cultural and creative sectors, through investment under the new fifth investment window, especially to support international distribution, competitiveness and innovation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am sorry, but mr mureşan should speak first, and he is not in the house yet. i'm sorry about that. europe needs investment, we agree. on the one hand, to get out of the current crisis, and on the other hand, to achieve our ambitious goals in the field of climate and environmental protection and digitisation. the commission itself, in its communication on the sustainable europe investment plan, calculated that we have an investment gap in the european union of more than 260 billion euros and that was before the pandemic. the actual investment gap is now likely to be much larger. we must be clear about one thing: public investment alone will not be able to close this gap. if we look at the exploding public debt in many member states, it becomes very clear that public money alone has not done it. this is why an instrument like investeu, which can leverage private investment, is so important. but for these investments to really make a difference at the end of the day, it's also important that they go where they make a difference. in the past, we have often seen the european fund for strategic investments go where the most capable applicants are, rather than where the funds could make the biggest difference. this needs to be improved at investeu. secondly, the money must actually be used for productive investment that generates economic value in the long term. it is therefore right that we at investeu place a particular emphasis on research and innovation and on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, as they are the engine of growth and employment in the european economy. the european people's party is therefore very happy to support this investeu programme.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, it seems that an eternity has passed since the commission proposed its first investment plan - the so-called juncker plan - almost six years ago, which was intended to stimulate or help an economy slowed down by the effects of the crisis. and just when it seemed that the european union economy had stabilized and we were starting to discuss what the priorities were going to be until 2030, what kind of investments were needed, how to achieve the sustainable development goals, how to meet the european social pillar or the paris agreements, the pandemic turned everything upside down. but far from disrupting or changing our priorities, the pandemic has highlighted the need to accelerate the achievement of all these objectives and to develop a new investment plan that will allow us to cover, at least in part, the financing needs of the strategies adopted by the european union. with the agreement reached in the council last july, the financial framework will allocate to the investeu programme - and it is a pity that it was not more than €26.2 billion in the form of a guarantee. it will operate on four axes of action: on sustainable infrastructure, on research, innovation and digitalisation, on smes and on social investment and capacity. the objective of this programme is to mobilise around €370 billion, which, together with the recovery and resilience plan, will be the engine of the ecological, digital and social transition that the european union needs to achieve. but, in addition, sectors that have been so badly affected during times of crisis and especially by covid-19, such as the cultural and audiovisual sector or the tourism sector, will also be supported through this programme, improving their competitiveness, ensuring the sustainability of the sector and strengthening its value chain. but the coronavirus crisis has not only highlighted the need to accelerate those goals, but has also put the spotlight on our weaknesses and our vulnerabilities. it is therefore of particular interest to me that strategic investments or investments of particular interest to the european union have been added as a priority to the programme, with a view to improving the union's response to future emergencies. on the other hand, we have also achieved - and this is fundamental - that the investeu programme allows capital support for smes that have been affected by the coronavirus crisis. this aid should have been channelled through the solvency support instrument, but as no agreement was reached at the july council on this instrument, we have integrated this possibility into the investeu programme, which, moreover, will also be able to be fed by part of the funds of the recovery and resilience plan. and finally, i would like to stress that the investeu programme will not forget women either. yesterday, 8 march, we called for an end to inequalities, and this programme will also contribute to that end. so thank you very much and congratulations to mrs tinagli and mr fernandes.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, investeu is an essential element to help europe bridge the existing investment gap. it will work hand-in-hand with other programmes designed to facilitate the economic recovery in europe, such as the recovery and resilience facility for instance. we need to create favourable conditions and encourage more investment into the european economy, in particular for smes, as they have been hit the hardest in this crisis. it is positive that we have been able to support small businesses through public funding during the tough periods of lockdowns. but now we need these new structures, such as investeu, that we have put in place to support access to finance for smes and help them to grow. investeu puts financial institutions in the driving seat and makes them an important part of recovery. company programmes and projects will be relying on them to provide adequate funding that will bring us back to growth. for us in the renew group, it is essential that through the four windows of the investeu programme smes feature prominently as they have been at the forefront of our priorities. this is why we work throughout these negotiations to ensure that there is as little red tape as possible for companies and therefore i call on the eib and the commission not to become overly burdensome with funding procedures. think about the smaller companies and intermediaries around the eu. the public funding will eventually taper off. businesses and financial institutions should not be waiting for that to happen. the moment to take steps to access investeu funds is now. once investeu is adopted, i encourage the commission and the implementing partners to complete all the required steps quickly so that the applications can benefit from support as soon as possible. in our group, we believe that investeu is the right tool to ensure support for our businesses through hard times, to enable them to continue to grow, innovate and create jobs.
in writing. when the covid-19 pandemic began, the union reacted quickly, introducing a temporary state aid framework, increasing flexibility in the spending of funds and introducing instruments such as sure. however, even with these measures, the prolonged downturn led to an economic collapse. we are now talking about the need for large investments that would, on the one hand, implement the eu's priorities, fill the gaps in the field of digitisation, climate change, research and innovation, and, on the other hand, revive our economy. this can have many positive effects. first and foremost, we want to stimulate private and public investment to support economic recovery, but also to target this investment in a way that leads to a lasting transformation of our economy, making it more resilient to future crises and increasing the union's competitiveness. so the assumptions themselves are correct. the problem is that we are still struggling with the crisis. companies exhausted by months of struggle to survive, often on the verge of bankruptcy, have no means to invest, even if they could make a positive change and even if they were strengthened by eu funds. the sectors most affected continue to need our support and attention. the temporary state aid framework should be maintained for as long as necessary and the most affected sectors should receive concrete support to enable them to recover. only then can we speak of success in the fight against the crisis.
in writing. – recovering from negative effects of this terrible pandemics also about rethinking how we can do things better to become stronger creating greater prosperity for all and re-orientating europe towards a digital and sustainable future. smes play a key role in the twin transitions and the recovery. as the backbone of the eu economy smes should be supported so they can remain competitive on the global stage. the response to this crisis both at eu and national level it’s been unprecedented. thanks to these public support schemes, economic and social damages will be mitigated and the level playing field within the european internal market will be maintained. it is vital to increase both the level and the quality of our investment and instruments such as the recovery and resilience facility and investment programmes are critical tool to achieve this. the financial institutions will play a crucial role in the transmission of state aid assuring liquidity to the relevant undertakings. this will allow research and development for testing and upscaling infrastructures, skilling and up-skilling. in the longer run, it will stimulate innovation, leading to new and better products and services therefore strengthening european competitiveness on global markets and it will also create quality jobs and strengthen our social infrastructure.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues and also dear georgia, i simply can’t avoid talking about the symbolism. the 8 march agreement happened almost exactly a year ago after many months of internal turmoil. here we are on 9 march, after a year of promises and with an even worse situation. it saddens me to see it, but i am not one to linger on that feeling. last year, georgia was able to get out of the crisis, turn over a new leaf and get an electoral reform. and we helped. we were there. i am certain we can help again and georgia can get back on track again, ensure further reforms to the electoral and judiciary system, let go of political prisoners, such as mr rurua, promised already by the agreement, and mr melia, and let citizens decide who represents them, in a fair system, without a shadow of a doubt about its fairness. but for that, we need to be there. we have to give more support and a stronger mandate to the team and our eu and national ambassadors there to help with mediation, send a supporting delegation. what president michel began was a great step and the first step. let’s follow up on what both he and we already did and help our neighbours. dear colleagues, let’s help our friends.
we now continue with the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the current political situation in georgia (2021/2575(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the syrian conflict – 10 years after the uprising (2021/2576(rsp)). i would like to remind members that for all debates during this part—session there will be no catch—the—eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, as has been the case during recent part—sessions, debates will include remote speeches from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states.
we now continue with the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the syrian conflict – 10 years after the uprising (2021/2576(rsp)).
before we proceed with the next speaker, i have an announcement. following the power surge and the technical issues, which are still being experienced in certain buildings of the european parliament where members have their offices, and in order not to endanger their participation in the votes, the voting session of tonight is cancelled. the votes scheduled for this evening will be distributed in different sessions tomorrow.
we now continue with the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the syrian conflict – 10 years after the uprising (2021/2576(rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 11 march 2021. written statements (rule 171)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council and the commission, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the people who have been involved in this uncovering, because i find it rather sad that this work has to be done by journalists rather than by the authorities who are responsible for it. what was very surprising to me personally is that 81% of the investment funds that are listed in the luxembourg register of ultimate owners do not actually indicate their actual owner. i see this as a problem, and i see the situation in europe as a much bigger problem. this means that the registers of the ultimate owners are not visible or are only accessible for a fee or are subject to some other complication. so i wanted to take this opportunity to ask the council and the commission, briefly, what they are going to do to finally make this data available to everyone in a public, transparent and machine-readable format, so that normal data journalism can be done on it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i need to say that i am disappointed to hear that nothing will really happen by the end of 2022. the debate on abolishing geo-blocking has been ongoing in this parliament for years. the outcome of the regulation adopted in 2018 is far from what citizens hoped for, because the content restricted by the copyright monopoly was excluded from the scope. and the studies that the commission and the parliament conducted prove that there has been a growing demand for cross–border access to audiovisual content. as you can hear not only from me, there is a strong support from members of the european parliament to abolish geo–blocking. the market self–regulation failed, and european citizens are still deprived of equal access to content. therefore, i expect the commission to speed up their effort to tie up the loose ends and once again get closer to finalising a proper digital single market. and i stress the word ‘single’.
in writing. the covid passports are a good initiative to help restore free travel in europe. three pathways should lead to a positive certificate vaccination, test or history of disease. the resistance that covid passports are provoking among some people in the eu is a misunderstanding. many countries around the world have required vaccinations even before coronavirus, such as yellow fever. we must therefore explain that these are temporary and pragmatic measures that will allow us to return to normalcy more quickly, albeit adapted to the conditions of the pandemic. it's a logical move. states have invested too much money in lockdowns and vaccinations to be willing to screw it up for foreigners. if everyone's conditions were different, there would be chaos. but europe must work to ensure that everyone who wants to be vaccinated has access to it. they need to be positively motivated by a freer life. the passport should take effect when those conditions are met. let's hope it's early summer. that's why i'm in favor of an expedited procedure.
rapporteur of the committee on culture and education. madam president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education, i thank all my colleagues for their cooperation and for the final form of this report. the european union needs to increase its competitiveness in the digital world and in the development of artificial intelligence. and that's only possible if we have enough experts and they have access to data across disciplines and across countries. we need to be ambitious and strive to equip european citizens with the digital skills that will enable them to participate fully in an increasingly digitalised society. these skills and technologies must be accessible to all, including disadvantaged groups, so that digitisation does not further widen the inequalities in our society. promoting digitalisation in education and lifelong learning will help us to be leaders in the fair use of modern technologies and artificial intelligence. i also want to appreciate that the report takes the right approach to creating a single data market that protects our data and guarantees the protection of personal data.
rapporteur. – mr president, today’s debate comes after a process that started with an ambitious commission recast proposal in 2016, which aims to rein in the immoral and damaging export of european cyber-surveillance to dictatorships around the world. my predecessor, professor klaus buchner, took up this political battle against concentrated industry power, lack of willingness to cooperate among national states, and a baseline of secrecy that one usually only finds in spy thrillers. i thank him, my fellow shadow rapporteurs, our committee chair bernd lange, and our hard-working staff wholeheartedly for engaging in this years-long political battle. the result has been a recast that does not reinvent dual-use export controls, but one that provides the necessary tools to protect human rights and our european security, and one that eases our legitimate exports and cuts red tape. it is not our final destination. it is however an important stepping stone to progress even further. if we adopt this reform in today’s vote, the european parliament will have put human rights and human security at the forefront of our exports policy for some of the most dangerous dual-use technology. the new rules for cyber-surveillance exports, paired with companies’ new due diligence requirements and meaningful transparency, will together mean that powerful european cyber-surveillance technology does not end up in the hands of dictators and authoritarians. in this regard, i also cannot omit the current and future role of civil society. watchdogs and non-governmental organisations and journalists always had a crucial role in the identification of problematic companies and areas. we now free their hands with the new transparency provisions to access necessary information. we have also carefully listened to our businesses and narrowed down the scope of new controlled items to a small percentile of all exports. cyber-surveillance is not the big job-creator in the eu and the costs of it landing in the wrong hands far outweigh those economic gains. although bureaucratic changes will have to occur, ultimately, the new harmonised reporting, implementation and enforcement measures will improve competitiveness inside the single market. in addition, the new general export authorisations will allow our businesses to compete in a tough global environment. the recast would also create new listing mechanisms that allow us to go beyond wassenaar, with its limits in scope and speed of adoption that is hopelessly behind the current technological frontier. ultimately, we must find a solution with our trading partners and expand controls to all democracies. the european union alone cannot stop the proliferation of cyber-surveillance, weapons of mass destruction, or new dangerous emerging technologies, but with this recast we take a step in the right direction and invite our democratic allies to go together. i agree with antony blinken’s recent statement that when one of us is coerced we should respond as allies and work together. i agree with him. i believe that only when democratic nations that uphold the rule of law, due process and fundamental rights work together on the non-proliferation of new and future weapons technologies of the 21st century can we ensure global peace and rising prosperity. the chinese communist party sanctioned five of our colleagues over defending fundamental rights and speaking out about genocide and horrifying human rights abuses in china. it’s caused us all to come closer together, as europeans, and to get a clearer understanding of this one-party regime. like any other dictatorship, the ccp attempts to silence all opposition and it does so at home with cyber-surveillance that it legally bought, or backwards-engineered, from our companies. this is unacceptable and cannot continue. i call on the member states and the council working group on dual-use exports to use the new articles in the recast and to put the ccp on our list. china has become one of the most industrious suppliers of cyber-surveillance to dictatorships around the world. it is launching constant cyber-attacks against our institutions and companies. the soviet threat after the second world war saw the birth of the coordinating committee for multilateral export controls. it is time that we realise the threats to our institutions and democracies by the chinese communist party as yet another such pivotal moment that requires a comparable level of increased multilateral export controls. let me conclude by saying that an adoption of the recast today would only mark the beginning of much of the necessary work. with many new tasks, the european commission must dedicate more resources and workforce. i trust stéphane chardon to do his job well, but he cannot be alone. our businesses rightfully demand that due diligence guidelines for the export of cyber-surveillance are provided on time. i would just like to ask commissioner šefčovič, what are the commission’s plans in this regard and how can the european parliament support him in providing the necessary resources for the tasks ahead?
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on soil protection by pernille weiss, maria arena, martin hojsík, manuela ripa, alexandr vondra, idoia villanueva ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000024/2021 - b9-0011/21), and– the oral question to the commission on soil protection by pernille weiss, maria arena, martin hojsík, manuela ripa, alexandr vondra, idoia villanueva ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000023/2021 - b9-0010/21).
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 27 april and the final vote will take place on wednesday, 28 april. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by giuseppe ferrandino, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual management plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, amending regulations (ec) no 1936/2001, (eu) 2017/2107, and (eu) 2019/833 and repealing regulation (eu) 2016/1627 (com(2019)0619 – c9—0188/2019 – 2019/0272(cod)) (a9—0149/2020).
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 27 april 2021 and the final vote on wednesday, 28 april 2021.
mr president, the course of brexit so far has vindicated michel barnier's view that both sides will lose out in the divorce. the united kingdom has started to pay the financial bill, while we have suffered damage - for example - in the astrazeneca case. but life goes on and that is why we will proceed to approve the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement. i want to make two political points. firstly, the johnson government is behaving in bad political spirit, in collaboration with powerful british media, and is trying to blame us for the negative consequences of its own choices. he has been very provocative in his handling of the astrazeneca vaccine case in an attempt to justify brexit. the aggressive english nationalism expressed by johnson with brexit may create problems of cohesion in the united kingdom, as discontent grows in northern ireland and scotland. secondly, we have said goodbye to the united kingdom and we should also say goodbye to the british mentality, which unfortunately is still with us. many in the european union consider the money that goes into the european budget to be lost to the taxpayers of their countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the lack of european zeal, in my view, reinforces the argument that led to brexit.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we move towards voting on the agreement on future relations with the united kingdom, we cannot help but stress how much weaker brexit leaves us all. weaker from a commercial point of view with the significant declines in exports, the endless border controls, the queues of the tires. weaker because the british government has chosen to put up barriers much higher than customs barriers, by ending the uk's participation in the erasmus programme and by failing to promote cultural exchanges between young people. of course we should be very vigilant, particularly in relation to the irish question, but at the same time our companies will benefit from clear rules against any form of unfair competition and in support of the highest environmental and social standards. as with third countries, it will be important for parliament to continue to monitor the implementation of the agreement. a long and complex negotiation that limits the negative effects of brexit: we could say the best possible deal for the worst of the decisions.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are coming to the end of this debate, and also to the end of a five-year turbulent divorce process following the brexit referendum. and what a sad divorce this has been. we have reached a point where there is no room for negotiation, and no time for months of uncertainty again. avoiding no deal has always been the intention, and that will soon be reality. that is the best outcome for our citizens and businesses. but let this not be the end of the road. please let it be a starting point. a new and lasting relationship with the united kingdom is crucial, but it must be based on trust. i would like to say to the united kingdom: i'm not going to be a part of this. we have risked our necks as europeans for a comprehensive deal. now, prove yourselves worthy. start with full compliance with the withdrawal agreement, including the northern ireland protocol. the images of the riots in belfast really gave me chills. please don't let it get out of hand. commissioner, i call on you to pull the plug if the british do not agree to the agreement again. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european parliament's decision to approve the agreement is not a concession but a responsibility. we remain determined and vigilant, and we expect the same from you, commissioner. at the same time, we must dare to look ahead. brexit is imposing additional costs on businesses and posing new challenges to border regions, including in our own west flanders. in order to make this cooperation as smooth as possible, i would urge you to consider all options, including green lanes. mutual trust is the key to success. although that trust has been shown to be unstable in recent weeks and months, it will have to be the basis for enhanced cooperation in various areas.
mr president, we have arrived at an important moment where the european parliament is set to ratify the future terms of the eu’s relations with the uk. now we should remain vigilant, ensuring both the withdrawal agreement and the trade and cooperation agreement are implemented, limiting the economic and social damage of brexit as much as possible. the uk has left the eu. but it remains a partner and ally in many other important areas of cooperation, and this should include cooperation in trade, research, student exchanges or security matters. and in this regard, as a czech citizen, i would like to salute the support of the uk in dealing with the recent revelation of the russian security services involvement in the incidents in the czech republic. colleagues, while this is the end of the uk’s chapter as an eu member, it is also the beginning of a new relationship between allies and partners and friends across europe.
madam president, businesses in the hospitality sector are on their knees. they need not just financial support, but also longer term measures to restart and recover. tourism may never be the same. businesses also need to be ready to adapt to changes in the environment and overcome them with financial assistance. this summer is about survival, but in the future a new form of tourism may emerge from the ashes, with tourists looking for lesser-known destinations. those working in the industry should adapt their offerings from package holidays to more sustainable tourism in the long term. we will vote on the digital green pass this plenary and this is a step in the right direction, but tourists need more reassurance and clear rules about the entry requirements on returning home, etc. therefore, we should call on member states to be working hard together to ensure that the return to tourism, safe travel and predictability of measures are clear to citizens.
in writing. the european covid certificate provides for a gradual return to normalcy by removing restrictions on quarantine or isolation for travel between eu member states. we must emphasize at every opportunity what this certificate is and especially what it is not. it should be made clear that this certificate is not mandatory, it is not a passport, it does not oblige any citizen to obtain it in order to travel and it is free of charge. citizens who do not wish to obtain it will be able to continue to travel exactly as they currently do, with the restrictions imposed by member states in the exceptional context of the pandemic. the certificate also does not force anyone to be vaccinated against their will. the certificate shall be and is an administrative act facilitating the free movement of persons at low epidemiological risk. those who want to obtain this certificate but do not want to be vaccinated, for whatever reason, will be able to either present a negative covid test or prove that they have acquired antibodies through a previous infection. it is our duty, the commission's and the member states' duty, to explain better the usefulness of this certificate to avoid misinformation and to make a success of this new instrument.
in writing. in view of the future implementation of an interoperable vaccination, test and recovery certificate to facilitate free movement during the covid-19 pandemic, called the eu covid-19 certificate, the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament has voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the member states to guarantee universal, accessible, timely and free diagnostic tests in order to guarantee the right to free movement within the union without discrimination on economic or financial grounds in the context of the eu covid-19 certificate. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body of the person who is infected. in addition, the commission is asked to support national authorities in setting up testing centres as well as in deploying an app that helps improve information on the availability and testing centres for covid-19 diagnostics in all member states.
in writing. we are living in difficult times in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic and the union's right priority is to treat the sick and to fight the virus. however, there is a concern about the regulation on the digital green certificate to be issued to eu and third country nationals for vaccination, test results and recovery. health information is confidential, private and non-public. the idea of the green card is to make travel and use of services easier. but i'm afraid that under the guise of fighting the pandemic, legislation is being drafted that will allow countries and companies to fully monitor people. this will restrict civil liberties and rights and introduce unacceptable screening of people and discriminatory vaccination practices. this is unacceptable, because children who are not vaccinated and those who cannot be vaccinated and those who are not vaccinated for various reasons will be automatically stigmatised. they will be restricted in their freedom of movement and access to services. this is discrimination, especially since vaccination against covid is not compulsory, it is voluntary. the regulation is moving towards totalitarian practices and violates several rights, including article 21 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union: 'every citizen of the union has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states'. restrictions on freedom should always be temporary, not permanent. fighting a pandemic is, but you can't discriminate and divide people.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a digital green certificate - while desirable - is not entirely convincing in the current situation. member states are currently working to ensure that the vaccination process continues and that funds are raised through the recovery and resilience mechanism. i do not think that now is the right time to implement a digital green certificate. last summer, member states had the opportunity to assess which travel facilitation rules are most appropriate for each country. the digital green certificate will prevent member states from creating 'bubbles' between each other, which has proved to be a very successful approach for the latvian tourism sector. i understand that the directive is based on the concerns of the tourism industry about the coming summer, but one size does not fit all. i would urge my colleagues to look for more appropriate solutions.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have been dealing for years with a major problem in the field of digital taxation that goes far beyond europe: we are dealing with the fact that services provided by the digital economy are often taxed in a completely different way in individual cases than services provided by traditional industrial providers. and this injustice has been discussed at the g20 level since 2013 starting with the beps rules, but now there are more details . we want to structure this discussion, which has become significantly more important due to the coronavirus crisis, because digital offers were much more in demand during this crisis, together with the commission in the coming months. because it is important that we in europe take a step forward and treat digital and non-digital services equally and thus tax equally. that is the message of this report. this report is being put to the vote today, and i think you can accept it in good conscience, and i think i can say that on behalf of my co-rapporteur, martin hlaváček. they can do so with a clear conscience because they have succeeded in excluding small and medium-sized enterprises from the scope of the directive; they have succeeded in eliminating regulatory ambiguities and in avoiding unreasonable differences between traditional and digital corporate taxes. ladies and gentlemen, you can do this because this report not only criticises the transition from the traditional to the digital economy, but also mentions the positive effects of digitalisation. but something must be done, commissioner, if a better, fairer tax system is also necessary in the interests of the digital economy for all of us. and this demand goes far beyond europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. and for a global economy, we need global rules. we therefore welcome the ongoing negotiations on the basis of the oecd and we expressly state in this report that we as europeans will ensure that an agreement on the taxation of the digital economy is reached at the most central level possible. we have a clear expectation - and i hope, ladies and gentlemen, also from the left, mr schirdewan - that you share this expectation - that by mid-2021 there will be an agreement on how tax law should be adapted internationally. our report has been opposed to any safe harbour-style exception from the outset. it is therefore particularly gratifying that the new us treasury secretary, janet yellen, has also agreed from the outset that special arrangements for american companies under american law will not be possible in the long term, but that we need an international agreement. this is a positive thing, it strengthens transatlantic cooperation, and it also strengthens transatlantic trade. but since we do not want to wait forever, we welcome the commission's proposal for a digital tax in this report. the tax is not an alternative but can be complementary to better integration of digital services in international tax law. in any case, a european solution can discourage member states from seeking national solutions. and, commissioner, this is particularly important - we have already spoken about this - because in a global world, the best way to defend our sovereignty is to act together with a single approach, with a single tax, because our digital single market will only work really well if different digital taxes are not invented and levied everywhere. and that is precisely what we are trying to achieve, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. we want a clear and simple tax system. a tax system that is fair and that creates justice. and a tax system which applies equally between all member states and between all economic sectors. in this sense, this report, which we have written together - and i would like to thank mr hlaváček for this - is a mandate to the member states and the european commission to ensure that uniform rules are now established with a high degree of urgency at international level. i therefore hope that you will support this report as fully as possible, because the more our message is to the commission and above all to the council of ministers, the more it will be heard.
rapporteur. – madam president, since the first tax scandal, luxleaks, a few years ago, our liberal group has always encountered fair taxation, transparency and improved effectiveness. this is still the case today. in renew europe, we expect the tax system to remain a national competence. however, we also think that tax fairness is a core value, especially when it comes to the main engine of our economy: small and medium-sized enterprises. whatever the cost, we have to make sure they do not suffer a competitive disadvantage with respect to large international players. the latter exploit the fact that taxation is largely linked to physical residence and use this as a method of tax optimisation. this is most relevant in the digital taxation sector. in these difficult times that we are experiencing, the pandemic has radically changed our consumption patterns, negatively impacted national budgets and digitalised enterprises have become winners of the situation. they sharply increase the volume of business and profits. as a moral imperative and out of responsibility towards society, we need to make sure they contribute their fair share, as every other company and every other citizen. for this reason, we have to make sure, now more than ever, that europe has a clear and fair taxation strategy. this is a global issue, however, and that is why we vote for an international solution. we have long been waiting for our international partners to credibly join our efforts. so let me make this clear: this is our last attempt. we shall see an agreement in the oecd by this summer. in our report, which will be voted on today and which enjoys very broad support across political families, we want to emphasise that should international talks fail, europe will adopt its own strategy. its own levy. some european countries have anticipated this and have already implemented a digital tax. we do not see these unilateral measures as a sign of weakness or fragmentation. on the contrary, we believe that they pave the way for real change towards a european solution. recent moves by the us administration show signs of positive change – hopefully progress towards a solution on global digital taxation. but we are not there yet, and i address the european commission when i say that we cannot simply sit on our hands and rely on global talks. we had this situation two years ago and will not repeat the same mistake. let’s make sure we are prepared. let’s design our own digital levy before the summer and let’s finally prove that europe is fit for the digital age.
madam president, let me begin with a simple observation: large digital companies are not paying their fair tax shares. let me illustrate that with this simple comparison. we have a search engine company in czechia that is competing with google directly. they have comparable market shares, they both benefit from czech digital infrastructure, and they sell space for advertisements to european citizens. despite that, the local company’s tax bill is something like 30 times higher than the one of google. you don’t need a degree in accounting to see that something is wrong. but it gets even worse. a quick glance at the contributions of the digital and non—digital industries paints an even bleaker picture. the effective tax rate of digital companies is only 9.5% on average, compared to 23% for the conventional firms. this must change and this must change now. european state budgets are bleeding and european companies are losing out to tax evaders. i understand that the oecd is about to reach an agreement to tax the 100 largest multinational companies, and i fully support an approach from the commission to plan for an eu—wide digital tax. we need an equal playing field for everyone, digital and non—digital.
the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome. we are pursuing a policy of all-out, international conflict containment. we do not support the ambitions of any great power to expand its influence. we insist on respect for international law and reject the practice of double standards in the assessment of events. we insist on a rational evaluation of the evidence against the promotion of blind faith. private weapons storage in vrbetica, which was not properly secured, exploded in 2014. arms were exported in violation of international obligations through a bulgarian smuggler to areas of conflict in ukraine and syria. the secret services in the czech republic failed in their duties when they failed to detect this situation and to achieve redress. until this year, there was no suspicion of foreign intelligence involvement. a week ago, the blackmailed prime minister announced in a trembling voice the serious suspicion of russian intelligence involvement. no direct evidence was presented that was classified. a spiral of action and counteraction has been unleashed with expressions of solidarity from traditionally anti-russian states. the result, which was apparently intended, will be a significant reduction in diplomatic and, in particular, commercial relations between european countries and russia. i consider this development extremely dangerous in view of the growing threat of war in europe. russia will be oriented to non-european countries and europe will lose trade opportunities. it is not hard to see who benefits from such a state.
madam chair, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have to talk about the sabotage at the sparrows. in the czech republic, there was an attack by two agents of the putin regime that took the lives of two eu citizens, caused discomfort to entire nearby villages and caused enormous material damage. it took years to move the case and identify the culprits, and last week the czech republic responded by expelling russian diplomats. i appreciate the offer of support from our european allies and i appreciate the gravity of the move by our allies to expel diplomats of the russian federation. i understand that this old attack against the russian army on the ukrainian border may seem like a matter that does not need to be dealt with urgently. and i also understand that there are a number of people sitting in this parliament who have spreading uncertainty and half-truths about the murderous activities of the putin regime right in their job description. i just don't understand why so many of them are found among the so-called patriots. anyway, i understand that it would be good for someone to have some time to think about it, to question it, to move on. but we cannot allow that to happen in the interests of europe. because it cannot be normal for agents of a foreign state to murder people in europe. one of the fundamental functions of our european community is solidarity, because we stick together and a single europe is much stronger than a cluster of nation states. so now is the time for solidarity and it is necessary for the reason that we simply have to show the putin gang that dictators and gangsters in our europe have no chance to do such things. aggression simply cannot be backed up, and the kremlin needs to be reiterated that poisons, explosions and military blackmail are not the tools to bring russia to the negotiating table with europe and make it a partner. i would like to emphasize that if we are talking about europe, then ukraine is part of europe.
madam president, it has been said thousands of times that power and influence lies in the unity of the eu in foreign policy. this is especially important as regards big authoritarian regimes like russia and china. it is no secret that russia dislikes the unity in the eu and nato, and it has made many attempts to create a rift in this unity. a fresh example is russia’s decision to name some of the eu and nato member states as unfriendly, leading to consequences. the eu cannot afford big differences in foreign policy in these difficult times. all steps taken towards russia must be discussed together, decided together, and implemented together. if some states have to act on their own and the others don’t agree or follow, this sends the wrong message. there is a bigger chance to influence russia to end its violations of international law and respect human rights if the eu can demonstrate unity in its foreign policy also in difficult times.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i stand before you today not only as a member of parliament, but also as the mother of two children, whom i have raised up until recently to believe that they would grow up in the seventh safest country in the world, far from conflict, offensive information campaigns and assassinations. i don't feel that way today. i see the attack on vrbetica as an act of terrorism that took the lives of two fathers and that russia is trying to deny by a targeted disinformation campaign of unprecedented proportions. thank you to all who stood up for us, whether in solidarity with the expulsion of russian diplomats or by providing assistance to the czech republic's representation in russia or assisting in the investigation. but now it is our turn in the european parliament. we must stand together and do our utmost to make people in the european union and in my country feel safe again. we must support our members of the security forces and journalists who are on the front lines of protecting our security from information and cyber attacks by those who oppose our unity and seek to undermine confidence in democracy and the rule of law.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will speak czech today, as an exception, because what we are talking about here is an attack by russian intelligence agents on the czech republic. i would like to begin by thanking the leaders of the key political groups with whom we have been working on the resolution in recent days. she's tough and she should stay that way. and i'll give you three points. first, we were subjected to a guerrilla hybrid attack. one country, but it's an attack on the whole of the european union, on all the member states, and all the member states should be clear about this in some way. it's an opportunity to clear the european union of russian spies who are providing cover for these guerrilla operations. second, the independence of ukraine is at stake. this is not a backwater, this is a front country and it is in our vital interest to support ukraine explicitly in this difficult period. it's also worth supporting alexei navalny in his fight to give his life for freedom and democracy. and third, we must be strong, not weak. so it's good that we say that rosatom has no business in europe, but at the same time we have to work on being able to use the core ourselves. and that a must accompany b in other european parliament activities.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, online public space is a forum for the public debate that underpins our democracy. of course, this space, unfortunately, can also be abused by malicious actors to recruit or make propaganda for terrorist attacks. however, no legislation foreseeing only the deletion of online content can possibly eradicate terrorism. today, the parliament approves legislation that will merely result in hiding the symptoms of the deeply-rooted problem of terrorism and will shrink this public space for legitimate public debate. far too often, anti—terrorist legislation around the world is used against social protesters, minorities, environmental activists or refugees: a risk that has been pointed out to members of the european parliament by the un special rapporteur, ngos and journalists. this legislation, with its broad provision, risks not to prevent any of this. as a matter of fact, because of this new regulation, any authority without a court order or independent assessment will be able to mandate superfast removal of content in another member state. spanish, hungarian or polish authorities can decide what citizens in czechia or germany can see online, and that is why our group cannot support the outcome of the negotiations.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on bolivia and the arrest of former president jeanine añez and other officials (2021/2646(rsp)) *. __________* see minutes.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on blasphemy laws in pakistan, in particular the case of shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel (2021/2647(rsp))*.__________* see minutes.
excuse me, could you please take the sign down. it is not completely in line with the rules.
thank you, mr van dalen. i’m sorry for forcing you to take the picture down, but we also need to respect the rules, regardless of how emotive the topic is.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 171)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - i have to go. i congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague manolis kefalogiannis, and the other rapporteurs. the just transformation fund was born out of conversations with local communities, local governments, especially in a region like silesia - my region - where the challenges are the greatest. and it is the citizens, the inhabitants of the 41 mining regions of europe, who are at the heart of this fund. they don't want new mines, smog, collapsing houses, but they don't want to choose between climate change and jobs. that's why we have to create an opportunity for them, for their children, for the entire region. i would like to touch very briefly on two key issues: firstly, to win the way the fund is implemented in accordance with the plans of the local and regional communities - because this is the fund for them - and secondly, to remember that the transformation will take 30 years. we need the same separate budget line for the next three or four years of the union's multiannual budget.
member of the commission. – madam president, yes, somebody said it already – today is a historic milestone, a historic moment: the first legislative element of the just transition package and under the green deal to be approved by the co-legislators, and this only three weeks after provisional political agreement was reached on the third and last legislative element of the just transition mechanism – a public sector loan facility for just transition regions. this journey started with a commitment taken by president von der leyen in front of this parliament in july 2019 and your vote today enables the journey to continue. it enables europe to move forwards with our ambitious goal of becoming the world’s first carbon-neutral continent, and your vote today enables us to reach this goal while leaving no region, no worker, behind. because in europe, we do not compromise on our key goals – we will be carbon-neutral and we will leave no one behind. we will meet both goals together. and therefore i am very happy as a commissioner – for social rights, by the way – to have the honour to be here this evening. commissioner ferreira, whom i represent today as she’s currently on mission, asked me to pay tribute to manolis kefalogiannis and younous omarje, as well as to the shadow rapporteurs who already expressed themselves. my warmest of thanks also on her behalf for your fruitful cooperation during the interinstitutional discussions. you helped us reach agreement in record time. you also raised the quality of the proposal: amendments from the parliament raised our ambitions, for example through the green rewarding mechanism. the adoption of the regulation today paves the way for submission and approval of the territorial just transition plans. these plans are currently being prepared across europe, with the help of eu technical support. the approval of the plans is critical for each territory to effectively access not only the just transition fund, but also the other two pillars of the just transition mechanism, namely the just transition scheme under investeu and the public sector loan facility. it is important that eligible territories optimise the support of these various instruments to address all development needs and challenges stemming from the climate transition. today starts our common work in implementation, but today starts also our common work in making a success of the just transition fund. today starts our common work delivering on the ground, a green transition which leaves no region behind. the commission is fully committed to this. the parliament is our key partner and ally in this work and has always been. we will keep you duly informed of progress.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, i am glad we achieved a common position on the just transition fund (jtf). at the same time, many would agree that the restriction on natural gas investments does not reflect parliament’s position. it was done without a realistic assessment of its effects on the ground and might even jeopardise the just transition goal. the jtf is primarily an instrument of solidarity. this means we need the finances to flow where they are most needed. therefore, i invite the commission to look very closely at the conditions on the ground. in some regions, transition efforts must be rewarded with quality roads, high-speed trains and affordable public transport. in other regions, with tourism and social infrastructure. in third regions, with district heating and better public services. in many regions of the eu depopulation and poverty represent a very high risk and we need the jtf to tackle it in a tailor-made way. i would like the commission to take very seriously the involvement of municipalities and cities in the implementation of the jtf resources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the excessive deficit. other madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the approval by parliament of the agreement on the legislative instrument for the just transition fund is an important milestone in the achievement of the objectives of the european green deal. agriculture is at the forefront of sectors affected by climate change and is therefore a key stakeholder in a just and successful transition to climate neutrality by 2050. the urgency of the climate crisis requires truly ambitious global action, but one that will also have immediate impacts on the social fabric, a fact we cannot ignore. the just transition fund will thus be a crucial instrument for the transition to climate neutrality to take place in a socially responsible way. i am therefore very pleased to note that parliament has succeeded in strengthening the social dimension of this fund, ensuring that aspects such as job creation, social infrastructure and the fight against energy poverty are central to the action of this instrument.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to thank my friend and colleague manolis kefalonianis for the good work he has done, for making such a good report, which i am sure will receive very strong support in the plenary. i've heard a lot of different opinions about the just transition fund. one was that we had to turn our backs on everything we've done so far, and pursue goals just for the sake of the environment. the other extreme view was that we shouldn't change anything, we shouldn't care what happens to the environment. the most moderate view was to use the green deal and the just transition fund to keep people employed in the energy sector. i support that, but i would like to take it a step further, to say let's use the just transition fund, raise the wages of the energy sector workers, the miners, the engineers, all the technicians there. only then will there be a truly just transition. i refuse to tell the miners that they have to be green but poor. if one penny of that fund goes to environmental protection, three should go to the miners, the engineers and everyone else employed in the energy sector - in the mines and in the streams.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i welcome the commissioner. a few words as a shadow rapporteur of this very important file. climate action is well needed but it represents a major challenge for many coal- and energy—intensive regions and this is also the reason why renew europe parliamentary group welcomes the existence of a just transition fund, a tool which will simply help the challenged regions to remain attractive and competitive. myself, i would like to thank to the rapporteur, mr kefalogiannis, also to the chair of the committee on regional development (regi) mr omarjee, the german presidency team and, of course, to the european commission, to the team of elisa ferreira. together we have had three intensive and very fruitful trilogues, also very friendly ones, and together we have laid down a good basis for regulation, with which we will simply deliver the results, and will also enable us to address the specificities of the challenged regions. myself, coming from czech republic where are three coal regions, i’m very pleased that the topic of the just transition fund has become a topic, not only of the local political talks but also of the public talks. the citizens are aware of the existence of this fund and they see it as a specific help for them. a very good message. also, i’m amazed by the quality of some projects that are being put forward to help the regions in the transition. my takeaway message is on the funding. the eur 17.5 billion is a very good start. however, when i see the challenges of the regions, we will definitely need more in the future by 2027 and also in the time post—2027.
i believe that israel, our key democratic ally in the middle east, must, like all sovereign states, defend its citizens from rocket attacks by palestinian terrorists. these terrorists are openly sponsored by iran, whose goal is the destruction of the state of israel. unfortunately, we don't all share the same beliefs. the left brazenly speaks of the israeli genocide of the palestinians and josep borrell is lobbying to prevent god forbid from taking sides. and the commission has for many years openly supported organisations that may be directly or indirectly linked to the hamas movement. if we do not want the eu's common foreign policy to be a dangerous chimera, the commission must stop these financial flows immediately.
the european union is synonymous with solidarity. it could not be otherwise, because the solidarity declaration of 9 may 1950 planted the seeds of european union and we remain committed to this principle and value. the european union is the only power in the world, the only union of countries which puts solidarity into practice and does not treat it merely as a slogan and a sign. the european solidarity corps responded to another historic challenge when, on 14 september 2016, the then president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, effectively created the european solidarity corps to bring young people together, to bring them together through the element of volunteering. volunteering, solidarity and young people, who are the future of the european union, are the pillars of the european union for progress, development and future coexistence in a highly competitive world. we are once again demonstrating that the european union values these links and is inculcating the principles of volunteering, solidarity and mutual aid in young people. we can therefore hope that we have a strong and powerful europe. i am particularly pleased that these serious issues, the issues of the future, are being handled by commissioner mariya gabriel, in whom we have complete and unlimited confidence, and we thank her for her work in the sensitive field of innovation, research, youth and sport. i am convinced that our young people will take their rightful place in the european union and that their demands and desires will be met.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again i welcome your support today for the ambitions of the european solidarity corps, which is to offer young europeans the opportunity to engage in solidarity and volunteering experiences in their community or in humanitarian projects. there can be no way out of the crisis except through solidarity and cooperation. i am confident that the european solidarity corps will contribute, as well as erasmus+, to the recovery efforts and mitigate the socio-economic and educational consequences of the pandemic. i would like to thank you again for supporting this programme, but also for expressing your faith and hope in it. it is also our responsibility to continue to work for its development, to make it as accessible as possible, but above all to make it able to inspire even more european citizens, as we know them and as we want to see them.
the debate is closed. i note that no proposals have been tabled to reject or amend the council's position under articles 67 and 68 of the regulation. the council's position is therefore deemed to be approved and the proposed act is therefore deemed to be adopted. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
the agenda includes the report by sabine verheyen, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on artificial intelligence in education, culture and the audiovisual sector (2020/2017 (ini)) (a9-0127/2021).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the rapporteur, the secretariat and the staff for their cooperation and cooperation and for their hard work. i think that this cooperation has made it possible to produce a good comprehensive report. we have produced a report on the topic of artificial intelligence in the fields of education, culture and audiovisual media. in this report, we call for a clear ethical framework for the use of ai technology in the media to ensure that people have access to culturally and linguistically diverse content. such a framework should also address the misuse of ai to spread fake news and disinformation. we need clear rules on ai technologies that protect anti-discrimination, gender equality, pluralism and cultural and linguistic diversity. the use of data that reflect pre-existing inequality or discrimination should be excluded in the training of artificial intelligence. instead, an inclusive and ethical framework for the use of data sets used during the deep learning process should be developed. there is no doubt that in the future, ai technologies will encounter us in all areas of life and will certainly enrich them. but we must put people at the centre of the use of all technology, and in the field of education in particular, artificial intelligence technology must be directed at the people who make the final decision and hold the responsibility in their hands. however, i think it is wrong to classify education as a high-risk sector in the discussion of artificial intelligence in general. and in the education sector, there are all sorts of ways that ai can be used. some are more risky, others are much less. however, a clear risk assessment is needed here, rather than a blanket definition of an entire sector, in order to be able to tailor regulation and safety measures to the actual risk. i would also like to recall the importance of strengthening digital skills at union level as a prerequisite for the use of artificial intelligence in education and the need to train teachers in particular so that they can adapt to the realities of ai-based education and reduce risks from the misuse of technology. teachers must be able to correct decisions made by the ai at any time, such as when evaluating students. ai technologies should never replace teachers, especially in early childhood education. for the cultural and creative sectors, we call for a coherent vision of the use of artificial intelligence at european level and in the member states. algorithm-based content recommendations, in particular for video and music streaming services, should not be able to negatively affect cultural and linguistic diversity in the european union. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 02 01) and the european schools for the period 2014-2020. so we want to reduce filter bubbles and provide more transparency to consumers, who can also better understand algorithmic decisions. we have fought for decades to establish our values of inclusion, anti-discrimination, multilingualism and cultural diversity, which our citizens see as an essential part of european identity. these values must also be reflected in the online world, where algorithms and artificial intelligence applications are increasingly used. maximum transparency and the development of high-quality and inclusive data systems for the use of deep learning are crucial, as is a clear ethical framework to ensure access to culturally and linguistically diverse content. artificial intelligence is a technology that is impacting many aspects of our lives and is driving the digital transformation. one thing is clear to me: technology must ultimately serve the people. the human being is the centre of attention, the one with responsibility, control and the final decision.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), let me present the main elements from our opinion. primarily, we insist that any use of artificial intelligence in the education, culture and audiovisual sectors must fully respect fundamental rights and freedoms as set down in the treaties. ai can enhance the education process if it’s used wisely, contributing to digital skills which will be so important in the future. about 40% of children today will work in jobs that do not exist yet. i therefore welcome the commission’s intention to update the digital education action plan in this regard. we highlight the need for safeguards in the use of ai for children, who are more vulnerable and therefore deserve particular attention and protection. there must always be the possibility for human intervention to ensure that no bias is found in the systems and there are equal opportunities for all. let me conclude my remarks by calling for an open regulatory framework for artificial intelligence where benefits in the education, audiovisual and cultural sectors are maximised and risks minimised.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, artificial intelligence will bring changes to our societies. however, only if we eliminate the risks will these changes be positive. for instance, ai systems evaluating applications for universities must be considered high risk. imagine that a technology faculty employs such a system and uses graduates’ profiles for machine learning. women are under-represented in technology, so the system may reject applications from women, based on that pattern, and such discrimination is unacceptable. systems with such an impact on people’s lives must be verifiable at every stage of their life cycle by authorities and by civil society. let me remind you that free and open source solutions serve this purpose best. we also need to update curricula so that students are prepared to fully participate in the digital society and to understand how ai systems may influence their decisions, shopping patterns or what they see online. and finally, my group has also been calling for a ban on facial recognition technologies in public space. among other things, they can be easily abused to persecute investigative journalists. and please let me finish by thanking the rapporteur and other shadow rapporteurs for their work on this file.
in writing. the global mobilization to develop and validate vaccines capable of generating immunity against covid-19 in unprecedented time frames has constituted one of the most impressive known manifestations of humanity's scientific potential and networking capacity. given the emergency and global nature of the pandemic and its pattern of spread, vaccines should be public goods and accessible to all. making vaccines a public good is a complex process that requires a systemic and common sense approach. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of industrial accidents and industrial accidents is a very good one. the donation processes through covax need to be greatly accelerated and contract management and technology transfer models need to be put in place, which ensure, in the long term, decentralised production on a global scale, at fair and affordable prices, so that covid-19 vaccines are global public goods and accessible to all those who need them.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the conflict of interest of the prime minister of the czech republic (2021/2671 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me first assure you that the council attaches great importance to making sure that eu funds are used according to the rules and that expenditure respects the principles of sound financial management. i am aware of the discussion regarding an alleged conflict of interest on the part of czech prime minister babiš in the reception of eu subsidies from the european structural and the investment funds, as well as of the audit report published by the commission. i also understand that the czech authorities are further investigating the case. the commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget and the recovery of unjustified payments, and it is the commission that has conducted an audit into this matter. i will therefore carefully listen to what the commissioner will tell us today. let me assure you that we agree that it is of utmost importance that strong mechanisms are obliged to protect the union’s financial interests and to make sure that money is spent in an appropriate way. the council is a firm supporter of the protection of the union’s financial interests through instances such as the european anti-fraud office or the european public prosecutor’s office, as well as the directive on the fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law. whilst, as you will understand, i am not in a position to formulate any council views on specific cases of fraud or corruption allegations, i will listen to your debate attentively. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, conflicts of interest affecting european union funding in the czech republic continue to attract a lot of public attention. the commission takes this matter very seriously, because every conflict of interest is a potential conflict with taxpayers’ money. while our intense work advances, the european union budget is fully protected. allow me to provide the latest state of play and explain the actions we are taking beyond the audits. the commission services have recently published a final audit report for the european regional development fund and the european social fund. this is not something we usually do, but we took into account the great public interest in this method, the request by the european parliament and the european ombudsman’s recommendation. the czech authorities have implemented the majority of the audit recommendations contained in this report, improving the management and control system in preventing conflicts of interest. the follow-up procedure is ongoing for the remaining open issues and the next steps will depend on the progress the national authorities are making in addressing the remaining recommendations. in the meantime what is important, and i would like to underline this, is that no expenditure was so far declared for any of the operations affected by this audit, therefore the union budget has been and remains fully protected. when it comes to the audit of the european agricultural fund for rural development, the procedure is still ongoing. in the latest step the member state authorities have requested a conciliation procedure. the aim is to establish the financial consequences of the audit findings and to agree as far as possible on the corrective measures that need to be implemented. reimbursements from the european agricultural fund for rural development requested by the czech authorities for the projects concerned were suspended. also in this case the budget of the european union has been and remains fully protected. the czech authorities have challenged the commission’s suspension decision before the general court of the european union and that procedure is following its own course. the commission action to protect the union budget is more than preventing conflict of interest and performing audits. let me quickly mention a few other lines of work which are relevant and apply to mainstream programmes as well as to the recovery and resilience facility. the commission is committed to accompanying and guiding the member states in applying the conflict-of-interest rules. therefore it published in april 2021 a detailed guidance document on avoidance and management of conflict and perceived conflict of interest. one of the key developments of the new period concerned the collection of data on beneficiaries and beneficial owners. this ensures access to data for audit and control purposes and helps develop a single data-mining and risk-scoring tool. these reinforced provisions are an important step in the right direction. therefore i would like to thank many in the european parliament for their support in this matter and i look forward to your cooperation on agreeing comparable rules for the common agricultural policy. as you know, a breach of conflict-of-interest rules can be much more than a breach of the financial regulation. it can also be a matter of respecting the rule of law and possible application of the conditionality regime, especially if shared management rules and financial corrections are not able to adequately protect the union budget. this is something we will reflect upon in the guidelines for the application of the conditionality regime. the commission is also considering other ways to improve the protection of the union’s financial interests. one way of doing this is to be able to exclude from european funding those economic operators benefiting from conflicts of interest. we will present such measures in the context of the forthcoming alignment of the financial regulation to the rules for the multiannual financial framework. the commission takes conflicts of interest affecting the union budget very seriously. unresolved conflicts of interest affect the credibility of the union and this is why we have taken and have planned a number of measures to deal with this. so let me assure you that the commission’s top priority is to protect taxpayers’ money and it will take all possible measures to do so.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the case of prime minister babiš has political and legal implications. i shall try to present it in as brief a form as possible, in one and a half minutes. it is absolutely unacceptable, from the point of view of the committee on budgetary control and the european parliament, which has a very, very large majority, that oligarchic structures have spread and consolidated in the czech republic, which are still working with a fairly great audacity to further enrich themselves with european or national subsidies, using all legal and other tricks. mr president, i cannot understand why this problem, which is now recurring and festering in several member states, is not finally settled within the council with clear legal rules, so that those who are negotiating for themselves in the agricultural and cohesion sectors, their families and friends or even the owners of the largest companies who receive the most money, cannot negotiate for themselves. i think that is a matter of course, and i would ask for your advice not to see us as enemies. i admire entrepreneurs, too, but what i don't like is that they work so hard for themselves. secondly, i would like to add that it is not acceptable that when irregularities are detected, invoices are withdrawn without anyone noticing and then the national taxpayer pays. the third point, if the president will allow me to say one more sentence: commission, we must improve and speed up the procedures. we have been waiting for a year and a half for the final publication of a report which has been available for a year and a half.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i would like to thank you for your support. these are strong words from some meps in recent days, not only on the floor of the european parliament but also in the media. we even have a draft resolution here, based on the 2019 audit report published a month ago, which describes the situation in the czech republic in 2019. i would understand the strong language and the need for the resolution if we learned today that the situation is the same as in 2019. but what's that sound? the czech republic shall implement the measures recommended in the audit report. it strengthens the mechanism for preventing conflicts of interest. and it was made clear that there was no risk to the european budget. even though there's this, let's say, positive trend, i think some of you are deliberately ignoring it for obvious political reasons, because it just doesn't fit. i understand the political appetite, but then i ask myself: what is the real benefit of a political resolution like this being prepared if it does not take account of the current state of affairs? in conclusion, let me thank these two actors, the european commission and the czech republic, for working together to eliminate risks. i have no doubt or concern that he will resolve this successfully, even if some of the differences in interpretation of the law are resolved through the courts.
for the verts/ale group. mr. chairman, it's been decided, andrej babiš is in a conflict of interest and no amount of excuses can change that. the prime minister of the czech republic is both the owner of a large chemical company and the prime minister of the government that allocates subsidies to him. the czech republic has developed a system that abuses subsidies intended to support smes on an industrial scale, and as a result harms not only public budgets but also individual entrepreneurs and market competition. the collective blindness is frightening, because the czech state is still pretending that everything is fine, and is looking for other ways to turn public funds into the private property of the grandfather. the european commission fell asleep as well. this last-minute delay in an audit is not a badge of a proper steward of the funds entrusted to him. we're still officially waiting for one of the audits. unfortunately, this slowness and cooperation with the oligarch is worth more than the money itself. the union thus loses the trust of its own citizens. everyone knew that andrej babiš was in a conflict of interest, but no one said it out loud. but czech farmers were losing opportunities, the czech market was concentrating, and babiš had exposed his own media empire, which helped him to raise more money. in the biggest health crisis, the czech republic and the european council were led by a statesman who was oriented according to how to profit from the disease, so accordingly it also ended in the czech republic with a record number of victims. and in the negotiations on the common agricultural policy, it did not go much better, because i dare say that the result would have been different if the owner of the giant agricultural company had not been present. this situation needs to be corrected. the money must be returned, not by the czech taxpayer, but by andrej babiš and agrofert.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the case we are discussing has been a public sensation in the czech republic and europe for 12 years, but the commission has shown exceptional restraint on this issue. the vice-president of the european commission, věra jourová, who is known to be concerned with values, transparency and the rule of law, recently stated that the european commission will investigate whether the case of andrej babiša and agrofert is an individual case or whether the czech republic faces a systemic failure in terms of conflict of interest. but in an interview on february 13, 2020, she answered the question of journalists from the weekly der spiegel with a firm answer. i quote: "there is no systematic attack on the rule of law in the czech republic, so this country is not my interest". however, journalists had some doubts about the objectivity of this assessment, noting that ms jourová was the former vice-chair of the babiša party, considered one of the most loyal supporters of "czech trump", as the journalists sometimes refer to the czech prime minister. chair jourová dispelled these doubts, stressing that prime minister babiš respected her new job and valued women with strong opinions. but the question remains. it is methodological and philosophical. how many individual cases does it take to say it's a systemic problem? perhaps since this case involves the prime minister, one of the richest men in the czech republic, one would suffice? maybe one of these cases is a sign of the system. this philosophical question is not limited to the czech republic. last sunday, in an interview with professor heribert hirte, vice-chairman of the bundestag's legal committee, the issue of a single case that has been upsetting germans about a possible conflict of interest involving the current president of the federal constitutional court, stephen harbartha, from the time when he was a member of the bundestag and earned money as a lawyer. doesn't that indicate a systemic problem? as is known, the council of europe's group of states against corruption (greco) already made recommendations to germany in 2014 on conflicts of interest, which have not been implemented so far. this particular case has therefore also escaped the attention of the commission and of vice-president jourová and is perhaps too focused on systemic issues in some countries where there are no such particular, such spectacular cases.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my father always told me that those who sleep in a democracy will wake up in a dictatorship. then you need to get up and pour yourself some pure wine. how long have we let people like andrei babiš grow up here? how long have we let them take subsidies here when we knew they weren't entitled to them? how long have we turned a blind eye to the clear conflict of interest of a man who is not afraid to repeatedly call for other people to become hostages to his private business. yes, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have already mentioned this, me and nicholas pex and now my family are receiving death threats. this is not how you conduct a political fight. we and my family are not afraid. and we won't have to worry about the cowards hiding behind the computer keyboard and texting me about where i should live, where my family should live and who i should live with. this fight is not about me at all. this is a fight about the essence of democracy, about whether a prime minister or a minister should take money from european subsidies and still be in an executive position and decide about it. and that's what the conflict of interest is all about. that's what this debate is about. the rules of democracy, freedom and humanity. and, ladies and gentlemen, this is not about whether i live or die. i think that someone else will stand up and fight this fight, because freedom and democracy cannot be silenced.
mr president, mr commissioner, i listened very carefully to what you said here today, and i am glad that it was made clear that the handling of european money in the czech republic is not at risk. this means that it is being done according to the rules, and also that there is a dialogue between the two sides and that most of the points have already been resolved. the czech republic must of course respect european legislation and regulations. but i consider it extremely unfortunate that some colleagues are calling for the launch of a mechanism which would ultimately lead to the cessation of all european money for the whole of the czech republic. and that would make all the beneficiaries, from business to non-profit, to government, to civil society, all of them, all of the reconstruction of our economy, hostage to the political game. it's a game of chance with no winners, only losers.
mr president, three facts are crystal clear today. firstly, prime minister babiš is the biggest beneficiary of eu funds in the whole of the czech republic. secondly, prime minister babiš misused eu funds to enrich himself by breaching eu and czech legislation at the same time. and thirdly prime minister babiš still sits in meetings of the european council, deciding on how eu funds are allocated. he’s in a clear conflict of interest. the fact that this is happening in the year 2021 in the european union is simply outrageous. the eu budget is money from the people for the people. it is money from the european taxpayers to the people of the czech republic. it is not money from the people for an oligarch. the money should go to czech enterprises, to small farmers, to students, to researchers, not in the pockets of one single oligarch. this is why my message to mr babiš is clear. he cannot be at the same time an oligarch, a prime minister and the biggest beneficiary of eu funds in the czech republic. the answer from the side of the european union needs to be clear: rule of law. our fight against corruption must advance, it should not backtrack. we must do everything necessary to make sure that misused funds are returned to the people. (applause)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing conflict of interest and we have the example of the czech republic. conflict of interest is, in fact, a disease that is found in many member states of the european union. europe is now going through an economic and health crisis, and we may have lost sight of this disease of conflict of interest in politicians, in governments, from prime ministers to ministers. it is not only in the czech republic that this is happening, but, mr president, commissioner, we must have a correct definition of this concept and it must be applied without any discount whatever the political colour of the government, whatever the country, whatever the geographical area. otherwise, the money, both the european union's money, but i'm also thinking about the money at the national level, will be spent by groups, by mafiosi, that i can't say otherwise. i would like to conclude by saying that i want those who take this improper money to be punished, not to see the member states' funds cut and the citizens suffer. money to be taken from those who spend it unfairly!
mr president, allow me to say a few words. personally, i'm not at all pleased that we're repeatedly discussing the czech prime minister's conflict of interest. this case is unfortunately damaging the image of the czech republic. but i'll give you a few reasons why i support the resolution we're voting on. and why i think it's right that the european parliament is hearing this case of the czech prime minister. the first reason is that this case concerns european taxpayers' money. we must defend the interests of european taxpayers, including the czech ones. czech taxpayers have paid, contributed to the business of their prime minister involuntarily in the amount of over 150 million crowns. the second reason is the czech prime minister's attitude to the case. instead of humbly accepting the commission's conclusions and making things right, he rejects them, slanders the opposition and the press and the media. that's completely unacceptable to me. andrej babiš and his government are acting like a team of agrofertu lawyers instead of defending the interests of the czech taxpayers. yesterday we learned that additional money to a particular company andrey babiš was paid from the czech state budget. this is completely unacceptable. and the third reason is that we have to send a clear signal that we reject the idea of european politicians linking their public activities with their business. that's unacceptable in the long run.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the money from the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, which is paid by european taxpayers, is used to safeguard farmers' incomes - the so-called basic income support. we are losing thousands of farms every month in the european union, partly because of the millions of subsidies paid to large landowners, agro-industrialists and oligarchs like you and your family, mr babiš. neither parliament nor the people understand this. parliament has proposed a ceiling of eur 100 000 per holding. i think that this 100 000 euro should be enough for you, mr babiš, as a basic income. but who is blocking this proposal in the council? millions of recipients of subsidies like you, mr babiš, are blocking this, and this is a clear conflict of interest. i call on you to pay back the funds you have illegally received and to withdraw from the negotiations and decisions on the common agricultural policy.
mr president, commissioner, minister augusto santos silva, transparency and the proper management of european funds are a necessary condition, an essential condition for having confidence in the institutions of the european union, for having the respect of citizens and for defending democracy, which must be sound, and the rule of law. the european commission must be more rapid. the council must do more and must explain. mr augusto santos silva, we, in the negotiation of the recovery and resilience mechanism, advocate something very simple: a digital platform that is interoperable, that helps to combat fraud, that avoids duplication, that avoids conflicts of interest and that makes the final beneficiaries known. know where the money is going, know who's getting that money. well, the council refused! we deserve an explanation! the european commission has signed a declaration with us to this end and we know that the solution lies in prevention and it is unacceptable, for example, that every year the equivalent of seven annual budgets of the european union, one trillion euros, is lost through fraud, tax evasion and avoidance. we have an obligation to do more. they have instruments, for example, now the rule of law regulation. we have to do something. the citizens of the european union deserve it.
mr president, there are two kinds of politicians: those who work for the sake of their country and those who work for their own benefit. i’m sorry to say the czech prime minister andrej babiš belongs to the latter category. for too long we heard things about his business and for too long we kept faith that this was just a mistake. but we can wait no more. items of evidence of a conflict of interest are too many and too clear, but the czech government is busier covering up the problems of the prime minister than it is fighting corruption, the pandemic and the economic crisis. and those who dare to speak the truth, like some colleagues from my group, are being sent death threats – families and children included. that is unacceptable. mr babiš: being one of the richest businessmen in czechia is not a crime, but using a public office to benefit your own business with funds that belong to all europeans is indeed a crime and you must be held accountable for it. mr babiš, this time your populist rhetoric will not help you at all, because this time it’s not about being pro- or anti-european, mr babiš, this time it’s about being an honest man or a crook. (applause)
mr. president, i regret that the czech republic and the conflict of interest of its prime minister is once again on the agenda of the european parliament. the final conclusions of the audit report show how essential it is that a system of control of grant payments and the elimination of conflicts of interest is in place in all member states. when european law is transposed into national law in the various member states, it must not be applied or interpreted differently. one thing is the law in the sense of legislation, and another thing, at least as fundamental, is the perception of morality by individual politicians and the political culture in individual member countries. the public's perception of politicians depends to a large extent on whether elected politicians have the capacity for self-reflection and are able to take responsibility for their work. it is not possible to meet with counterattacks on the opposition and the media instead. such an approach only contributes to the emergence and strengthening of groups that threaten our society and democracy. justice must be done for all equally. a politician must set an example not only by observing the laws in force, but also by his attitude to morality.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, europe’s digital future is in our hands. the commission had a vision about a european society powered by digital solutions that are strongly rooted in our common values and that enrich the lives of all of us. a fair and competitive economy. a frictionless single market, where companies of all sizes and in any sector can compete on equal terms. the parliament had the opportunity to suggest improvements to this digital strategy. however, we missed the opportunity to make a meaningful change. innovation can’t be a goal in itself. public services should remain truly public services without artificial competitive pressure. data protection must not be undermined by trade agreements. smes and other economic actors should benefit from cooperative business models such as free and open source software. and finally, european citizens should be able to enjoy content in their language without being discriminated. for these reasons my group filed split votes and i ask you to consider them.
mr president, the european union is trailing on cutting-edge ai developments. we are behind in semiconductor production and investment and we trail in the application of useful ai products behind our friends in the us, japan and korea, as well as we are behind our systemic rival, china. most of the global companies that develop and employ modern artificial intelligence are not european. it is our common task and my generation’s duty to change that and to bring the european union and its member states to the forefront of the most important technological race of our time. to achieve this task, we must guard and protect our citizens’ fundamental rights and freedoms. my group has made amendments to this effect and i hope you can support them.
the next item is the debate on the report by christian doleschal, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on amending regulation (ec) no 1367/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 6 september 2006 on the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters to community institutions and bodies (com(2020)0642 – c9—0321/2020 – 2020/0289(cod)) (a9—0152/2021).
the next item is the joint debate on– the council and commission statements on data protection commissioner v facebook ireland limited, maximillian schrems (“schrems ii”) – case c 311/18 (2020/2789(rsp)), and– the council and commission statements on the adequate protection of personal data by the united kingdom (2021/2594(rsp)).
before continuing with the debates, i will open the first voting session of today. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 9.45 until 11.00. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. i declare the first voting session open. you have until 11.00 to vote. the results of the first voting session will be announced at 13.00.
we now continue with the joint debate on the council and commission statements on data protection adequacy.
mr president, looking at the state of european smes today, we can clearly see the heavy impact of the pandemic across the majority of sectors, from supply chain disruptions to employee absences, temporary shutdowns to simply being unable to provide goods and services of the quality and quantity that customers need. some companies have been quick to hone in on growing areas of the economy, such as developing more digital or online-based solutions, while others simply lack the skills and knowledge to do this. the key aspect of our support to smes is to ensure that in the union both access to finance and the fostering of a favourable small business environment are promoted. for smes, the recovery will have many obstacles. we can help to overcome them by offering support at eu level, whether that be financial support through various schemes and programmes, or other types of support such as reducing barriers to business through better regulation. we need to do all we can for smes if we are to continue to offer opportunities for innovation, job creation and growth in the eu.
the doctors apply the principle of primum non nocere. it should also be followed by the union institutions. to give just a few examples, highly protected otters can quickly wipe out all fish and crustaceans, especially in upper-water areas, including protected species that are costly to breed. then the otters move to where the fish have not yet been exterminated. the protection of the sooty and the strak is leading to a decline in songbirds. the loss is absurdly attributed to farmers. restrictions on livestock farming lead to a lack of fodder, a reduced capacity of the soil to retain water, and a reduced nutritional value for the insects that feed the birds. the green deal leads to a reduction in agricultural production in the european union, and thus to an increase in imports from south america, where the expansion of production leads to the destruction of rainforests, and thus reduces biodiversity. i say to some of the so-called conservationists: first of all, don't harm!
as a shadow rapporteur, i supported the biodiversity strategy from the outset. we need to protect biodiversity, we need to stop the degradation of natural ecosystems. in the negotiations, i focused on the strategy's objective of increasing the diversity of our landscape, protecting plant and animal species and strengthening the resilience of ecosystems to pests and diseases. see czech problem with the crust deepened by prolonged drought. by taking an active approach to sustainable landscape management, we can not only restore forests but also protect biodiversity. i am glad that my colleagues and i agreed that the individual objectives must be set so that they are achievable at member state level and in harmony with the interests of the people. still, i'd like to see a few changes in strategy. i do not think, for example, that it is sensible to promote a blanket ban on rodenticides used, among other things, as rat poison in urban and built-up areas. i also think that we should allow our friends in spain and italy to manage the numbers of big game rationally in cases where in some areas the wolves are over-populating and attacking the farmers' herds. despite all these reservations, i am glad that a biodiversity strategy has been created. its implementation has the potential to bring tangible and positive results, unlike the hysterical fight against greenhouse gas emissions.
mr president, freedom of movement is the essence of europe and one of its key benefits for citizens. the early reactions from the member states to the pandemic demonstrated that one-sided actions create chaos. conversely, the european covid certificate is a tool to facilitate travel in a coordinated way. my political group insisted that facilitating the free movement of europeans must also go hand in hand with safeguarding their fundamental rights and protecting their personal data. i am glad that the final proposal does not allow tracing citizens when they present the certificate or collecting data at european level. vaccination is the way forward. however, we must be careful not to discriminate against citizens who have not had the chance to get vaccinated. hence, it would be fair for the member states to provide tests free of charge so that there are equal conditions for all.
madam president, we blocked some oligarchs from buying more properties on our soil. we made sure that belavia wouldn’t bring more money to lukashenko’s regime. we welcome belarusian opposition in our countries. that is all important and good. yet we are forced to watch raman pratasevich cry, obviously having been tortured before. he is two years younger than me! and we watch this as some sick ransom video, but without the possibility to actually pay the ransom and help him. but do we really not have it? did we use every tool we have? do you think that lukashenko will survive without european money? belarus is already dependent on russia. let’s not believe lukashenko’s lies about how our strong action will push him closer to putin. he is cradled in his arms as close as he could get, and there is no one else in the country so strongly attached to putin. colleagues, belarusian citizens’ society functions even under lukashenko. they will do better without him.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. speaking in this debate on behalf of the eec group, i want to stress that the problem of cage-breeding standards exists. he's serious about this. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the committee on agriculture for supporting some of my group's amendments. we were particularly concerned to draw attention to the fact that such bans would raise production costs and thus reduce the competitiveness of farmers, to the situation of small and mediumsized farms, which are already very often abandoning animal husbandry, and finally to the situation of european union producers in general with regard to imports from third countries. the introduction of such restrictions always makes our producers less competitive and this is something that we simply have to look out for in trade agreements. it's good that those amendments were passed. thank you for that. i would also point out that there are already instruments in the current financial perspective to promote animal welfare. such programs are being implemented in 18 countries, including my country, poland. it was said that there would be no interest from farmers in these types of programmes, and it turns out that's not true. in poland, 40,000 farms joined the scheme in the first year, and 70,000 in the second. finally, i would like to express the hope that the commission's legislative proposals will include, firstly, an assessment of the impact on farmers' incomes and, secondly, that they will be incentive schemes rather than prohibitions.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, i have entered politics to make the world a better place to live in, to give a voice to the voiceless: the animals. today, as the european parliament, we can all give our voice to animals, as 1.4 million citizens in europe have already done, by signing the european citizens' initiative 'stop the cages'. i hope and expect that after today the european commission will turn all these animal votes into action. because you know what i mean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is properly managed. commissioner, if you are serious about the european citizens' initiative, you must now legislate to eliminate these wretched, horrible cages throughout the european union. show the citizens that they can't change anything on paper. let this citizens' initiative go down in history as the most successful. experts and scientists have long agreed that the use of cages is cruel, outdated and unnecessary. this is the moment to show compassion to the hundreds of millions of calves, pigs, chickens, quails, ducks, geese and rabbits who suffer from stress and pain day in and day out, who can barely move and have no control over their lives. we simply do not have the right to keep millions of animals in cages. it is our duty to free them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the end of the cage age demanded by a large number of european citizens is proof of their concern for the welfare of farm animals. the quality of agricultural products has a direct impact on the quality of our lives, which requires us to pay more attention to this area. today, the european union has the highest animal welfare standards in the world, and the new common agricultural policy contains explicit provisions that will allow farmers to invest further in this direction through eco-schemes. changing the systems of husbandry in the livestock sector, including the elimination of cages, requires a joint effort by the european institutions and farmers. they must be helped in a smooth transition to new growth models, both by the acquisition of technological equipment and by ensuring that income losses are compensated. the european union currently imports significant quantities of animal products from third countries where farmers are not required to comply with any standard, so that unit cost prices are significantly lower. this creates deeply unfair competition with european farmers. in this context, any approach to the agricultural sector must take into account both their needs and the fact that agricultural production can be very easily relocated to third countries outside the european union, and this would have a negative impact on the european consumer and farmers.
madam president of the czech republic, madam commissioner, colleagues, i regret that we are only now dealing with this resolution on animal protection. the commission has already adopted a number of measures to ensure that the cages are kept in a safe and secure manner. i am also glad that this resolution will hopefully bring the czech republic and other member states together and that the european commission will take action. in the czech republic, we've already banned a number of breeds. as of 2019, fur farming is prohibited. last year, we decided to ban cage-raising of hives, with the goal of eliminating them completely by 2027. i therefore urge you to work together to promote such solutions at the level of the european union as a whole. i call on you to end the sale of cage-farmed eggs throughout the european union by 2030 at the latest. i thank my colleagues for the resolution that has been tabled and i trust that it will move us in the right direction.
madam president, unfortunately, the age of rationality has long since passed and the age of ideology has begun, where rules are determined through manipulated minorities. i'll stay with the domestic chicken. the chicken naturally lives in small flocks. one hen is able to recognize 12 to 18 other hens. the chickens are competing for the order of the chickens' beaks. the weaker ones in the large herd are denied food and the weaker ones are herded. in halls, chickens are much more stressed than in small groups in enriched cages of about one square meter. the mattress is a great place for viruses, bacteria, and parasites to multiply. the mortality rate of chickens in the hallway litter is three to four times higher than in the cages. eggs on the mat are spoiled faster because they've been in the trash for so long. the cost of the hallway mattresses is higher for farmers. the fact that the chickens are locked in cages with floor plans on a4 paper is a complete lie. cages like this were abolished long ago. this is a campaign of uninformed people, and it's not going to help the chickens. the consumers were not told that this would be more expensive and this is only beneficial for non-eu importers.
the uachtaráin, according to a survey carried out in ireland recently, has found that 90% of those who have uathachas on their go are willing to face further challenges after their long term care. the sea is full of my co-workers, it's a sea of people, and it's full of laws. however, there is a wide variation in the type and level of training required. it is clear, however, that there is no longer a valuable contribution to the air and to society. is people ar leith iad gach éinne a bhfuil uathachas orthu, ach go minic tá scileanna agus buanna faoi leith acu ó thaobh eolas fíriciúil, cruinnis agus ábaltacht theicniúil. (they are all people who have a good knowledge of the bible.) the fact that the people are not aware of the data is a problem for many people, especially for employers. the european social fund is a charity in ireland that supports people who have lost their jobs, or who have applied for a job. oh, and i've read an article, and only 2% of the hosts have read the reviews so far. i ask the commission, what should they and we do to improve the situation? and in the future, we will work together to create a culture and a work system that supports those who need it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the ability of people with autism spectrum disorders to access pathways of inclusion. together with the whole disability group in the european parliament, of which i am vice-chairman, and with the european disability forum we have been making proposals on these issues for a long time, focusing on the aspects raised by the question we are discussing today. the question of work and participation in social life is certainly the main area in which we must measure our action. according to the latest available data, the employment rate in europe of people with autism spectrum disorders is less than 10%, compared to 72% for people without disabilities. the presentation of the eu disability strategy and the new european social fund plus, which i have worked on myself, are certainly very important instruments, but we cannot stop there, we must do much more. so we need ever-easier access to treatment, more funding for training, job placement quotas, laws that guarantee fair pay. many companies have been working in this field for a long time. a great example is the blue moon autonomy autism project, which is based in my city, la spezia, but there are many others in italy and europe. and i, too, like many colleagues, know the experience of many young and old people who, despite their experience of autism spectrum disorder, have built their own independent lives and participate effectively in social life, but for too many it is not yet so. i therefore hope for an even stronger commitment from the commission and a smart use of the resources of the next generation eu recovery plan. after the terrible experience of this year and a half, with what we have learned i am sure that we can really make europe a better place for everyone.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the prevalence of autism spectrum disorder in the population is a challenge not only to education and social policy, but also to the labor market. the vast majority of these people are not only able to work and live an independent life within society, but most of all they are willing to work. and what's more, the educational structure of people with autism spectrum disorders is roughly the same as the general population. yet, about 10 percent of them are employed in europe. the barrier to employment for these people is usually a lack of social and communication skills, which are often overrated and can be easily overcome by the employer. it is thus totally unacceptable that, in addition, those with autism spectrum disorders who are employed often do work that is not in line with their qualifications, in precarious employment with low pay or in sheltered workshops where they are not granted employee status, associated employment rights and a guaranteed minimum wage. the current situation for disabled people is thus not only a violation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, but also a risk of employment poverty, which further deprives them of the possibility of integrating into the life of society. if the european union is to be a true leader in the protection of human rights, we must resolve this situation. and it's not just about the job. it's all aspects of life. i therefore recall that it is absolutely essential that the european council, after so many years, unblock the so-called horizontal directive and move towards a comprehensive protection of the rights of all citizens throughout the european union, in all areas of life.
(after the results of the voting session)president. – i now give the floor to irène tolleret, speaking on behalf of the renew group.
the request will be put to the vote at the second voting session tomorrow.
the renew europe group has notified the president of parliament of a decision relating to changes to appointments within a committee. this decision will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on the report by predrag fred matić, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on the situation of sexual and reproductive health and rights in the eu, in the frame of women’s health (2020/2215(ini)) (a9—0169/2021).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 24 june 2021. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation on establishing the european high performance computing joint undertaking (com(2020)0569 – c9—0335/2020 – 2020/0260(nle)) (a9—0177/2021).
in writing. the report, for which i was the shadow rapporteur, is a balanced text for the european parliament. it welcomes the fact that the eu has made a significant contribution to the fight against terrorism, and calls for the eu to continue to play a leading role in the fight against terrorism. the european parliament itself can only appeal to eu and nato member states to follow its recommendations. our government has a long way to go in terms of defending our country. i hope that after the elections in october the situation in our country will change significantly for the better in this respect too.
madam president, i would like to welcome mr borrell and thank him for joining us. the eeas has proven to be a very valuable asset when addressing disinformation, mr borrell, however, i need to raise several issues. first and most important, in my view, is the brain-drain which has been going on in the stratcom task force over the past year. if we do not have motivated, adequately valued experts, dedicated to the topic and cause, we can pour more money into it, double the amount of reports and screenings, but – we won’t have results. we won’t have a deterrent. how are you addressing this, or are you planning to address it? secondly, we talk today about resources a lot. you told us in march in the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation (inge committee), that you have very few resources to fight disinformation coming from china. however, the eeas is not asking for more resources for its stratcom division. so which is it? do you want more resources but won’t support steps to get them? or do you want to avoid the issue of chinese interference? last but not least, developing effective countermeasures to raise the cost for perpetrators is a key part of fighting foreign interference. which steps will the eeas take in this regard to demonstrate to adversaries that we are willing to react credibly to their interference? what is the status of the developments of instruments for this purpose as foreseen in the european democracy action plan?
madam chairman, hypocrisy is one of the most repulsive forms of lying. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. in other words, it does not apply to those regimes against which the european union has not imposed sanctions. the european union, as we know, does not impose sanctions on the representatives of all the countries where democracy and human rights are suppressed, but only on some of them. in some countries of the european union, suppression of rights is acceptable, in others it is, and this is a sign of unjustifiedness. it is easy to conclude that human rights are not really human rights at all, that they are not decided by observing them. they're just a pretext for sanctions. so the claim that it's making decisions based on respect for human rights is clearly false, and because everyone knows that, it's hypocritical. let me give you a typical example of selective blindness. it is turkey, where respect for human rights or democracy is out of the question. and our faction has repeatedly proposed sanctions against turkey, but the other factions have instead agreed that they are seriously concerned. so no sanctions, you know.
mr president, after this astonishing debate, i would like to speak briefly about attraction. the summer has begun and the mediterranean is about to become the scene of this parliament's deadly migration policy once again. the majority of this parliament, which has voted time and again in favour of the european open borders policy, is responsible for this. it is also responsible for the dual appeal of asylum policy and open borders. the social protection and health care in europe, on the one hand, and the perverse asylum system with open borders, on the other, are the reason why the situation has got out of hand and has led to an open invitation to the whole world to come to europe. the majority in this parliament is responsible for the far too high number of deaths which will occur again this summer in the mediterranean. we must put an end to the automaticity of open borders to remove the attraction.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all those present for this debate. these two very different funds that we have discussed today have one thing in common. they help us put policies into practice, policies that are important for people, policies that have big and broad support in this parliament, in the european union, but of course, these policies are not supported by everybody, which is also clear from this debate. the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) helps us to manage migration, to support the integration of refugees, to support legal pathways to europe. the fund will help europe to become a global leader on resettlement by helping member states to resettle people and support the dignified return of people who have no right to stay in the european union. the shifting from emergency funding to structural support reflects our present reality, that europe is no longer in the migration crisis. in short, this agreement on the amif is another important step towards delivering the pact. the integrated border management fund (ibmf) supports strong and smart borders, making it easier for legitimate travellers to enter europe and to keep terrorists and criminals out. this fund supports large-scale it systems and their interoperability. it is essential to build the most advanced external—border management system in the world. this fund will help adapt and modernise eu visa policy to changing times and address differences between member states. in conclusion, these funds help to support policies that are important to europe and important to our citizens, to manage migration and to support freedom of movement and to keep the schengen area safe.
this conversation is over. as regards the second reading of the tanja fajon recommendation on the asylum, migration and integration fund, no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled and no amendment has been tabled under rules 67 and 68. the council's position is therefore deemed to be adopted and the proposed act is therefore adopted. the second reading of the recommendation by ms tanja fajon on the integrated border security fund: a financial instrument for border security and visa policy for the period 2021-2027 will be voted on tomorrow, wednesday 7 july 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. at european level, effective solutions and a common response to the management of migration flows are still lacking. the european union has earmarked a total of €16 billion to be spent over the next seven years in the key areas of border management and migration. it is appropriate that the asylum and migration fund 2021-2027 provides for a fixed amount, to which an amount allocated on the basis of a distribution criterion that will reflect the needs and pressures of the various member states for asylum, legal migration, integration and the fight against irregular migration, including return, for the allocation of funding to the national programmes. in addition, the fund will be able to provide better responses in terms of flexibility and speed through a thematic instrument that will allow for the provision of funding for specific actions, including emergency assistance and support to member states contributing to solidarity and accountability efforts. it is precisely these last two elements that are lacking, those which the eu and the frontline states feel most in need of in order to achieve concrete european policies on asylum and migration that are truly common.
in writing. migration remains a major challenge for europe. where financial instruments are concerned, it is necessary that they contribute appropriately to the implementation of a migration policy based on strong external border protection, effective cooperation with third countries and effective return procedures. unfortunately, the agreement on the asylum and migration fund contains disproportionate amounts to support objectives that will not solve the problem but will exacerbate it. these include disproportionate emphasis on the distribution of migrants, excessive emphasis on the creation of additional legal migration routes, and excessive funding for the integration of immigrants. financial support for these objectives will only serve to further encourage illegal migration and contribute to the systematic abuse of the eu asylum system that has been going on for years. it sends the message that europe's doors are open to everyone. instead of pushing for the creation of legal migration routes, i believe that the future of europe lies in european families. each member state has the right to decide who is allowed to enter its territory, and no one can be forced to do so. the disproportionate amounts allocated to this purpose are based on an erroneous assumption and do not take into account the different intentions of the member states. so, once again, this agreement is not a solution, it's a cover-up, and i can't support it.
the next item is the report by mrs tanja fajon, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the annual report on the functioning of the schengen area (2019/2196 (ini)) (a9-0183/2021).
the rapporteur. madam president, once again, the honourable members of the house. i want to start this discussion with optimism. schengen is one of the european union's greatest achievements. until recently, the iron and blood-stained borders disappeared again with the enlargement of the union and schengen. schengen has become a symbol of freedom, it is essential for the internal market and for the exercise of the fundamental rights of free movement of goods and services, labour, knowledge, ideas and, of course, movement. today, in my country, slovenia, we already have a generation of young people who no longer remember the borders of europe. unlimited freedom within europe is taken for granted, but unfortunately, the schengen area has been in deep crisis in recent years due to a number of crises. the coronavirus outbreak has further limited freedom of movement. schengen has become the constant culprit for all the union's problems and the hostage of national, partial interests of the member states or even of their authorities. mutual trust, the basis of mutual cooperation, has replaced mistrust. in the six years since 2015, member states have introduced internal border controls 275 times. in the nine years before that, only 35 times. although schengen should be in his prime at the age of 25 in his best olympic years, he is severely paralyzed and already in intensive care. the rules that exist no longer fit the circumstances. but reform requires the political courage to do so. we have to be bold, we have to be ambitious, we have to be visionary. the question is, can we do it? the report therefore addresses the challenges schengen has faced in recent years and proposes solutions. the covid pandemic has exposed shortcomings in addressing the common challenge of a cross-border health crisis. the lack of clearer rules in such cases has led to a great deal of chaos at the borders and a disjointed response from member states. experience calls for the appropriate solution. internal border controls in six member states have been illegal and without legal basis for almost five years. the status quo is unacceptable, and it clearly benefits some people. the attempt to revise the rules in 2017 failed. i therefore expect and call on the commission to find a way out of the impasse. parliament will always be your ally. in the absence of an effective common migration and asylum policy, or as a result of it, many challenges remain at the external borders. the mediterranean is already a tragic graveyard of unhappy people. we therefore urgently need a mechanism to protect fundamental human rights at the borders and zero tolerance for violations. the reform of the mechanism for verifying the application of schengen legislation presented by the commission at the beginning of june this year is a step in the right direction. many of the demands of parliament have been met. i only regret the choice of legal basis, which does not allow parliament to play an equal role this time. i therefore call on the slovenian presidency of the council of the union to include the european parliament in the debate as an equal partner, as was done in 2013 when the first schengen mechanism was adopted. the future of a european area without internal borders depends on our ability to adapt to crises and challenges. right now, it looks like we're in a spot. we have governments that are putting their own interests before national and european interests. the reform must radically overhaul the common rules on internal borders. we must also eliminate all causes of mistrust between member states, in particular with regard to the protection of the external border, and prevent events that create such distrust. and those countries that break the rules, we take them to court. we must also complete the construction of the schengen area, because there is no future for the fragmented schengen area. bulgaria and romania have been unjustly kept in a waiting room for almost a decade. croatia is on the right track, but the final decision for all three is in the hands of the member states. we in parliament do not accept a two-speed europe and the division of citizens into different interests. let me conclude by saying that schengen is too important to be treated as a horse. no country, not even the european union, can afford to let it fall apart. the political and economic cost would simply be enormous. and if we jeopardise the future of the schengen area, we jeopardise the future of the european union itself, and i believe that is what no one wants. the commissioner, who i know has a very heavy budget on her desk, has an ally in the european parliament when it comes to such a demanding reform and reconstruction of the schengen area.
member of the commission. – madam president, school is out and summer is here. europe is getting ready to travel again, reminding us all of the importance of freedom of movement and the importance of schengen. especially after this last year behind us, we all have missed that freedom so much. thirty percent of our citizens live in a border area, 1.7 million people live in one schengen country and work in another, and 3.5 million people cross internal borders every day. schengen is a unique area of freedom, security and justice. we will need schengen to rebuild our economies. there’s no going back to schengen, we can only go forward. i wish to thank tanja fajon very much for telling me that the european parliament is one of my important allies to achieve this goal. that is also shown in the report, tanja fajon, that you presented today and i warmly thank you for this report. together, we must shape the future of schengen. that is why, last year, president von der leyen, speaking before this house, announced a new strategy for the future of schengen, which we presented last month, building on two high—level political meetings on the schengen forum we organised since last november, with crucial input from members of the european parliament. the commission’s schengen strategy is based on the idea that to move freely inside the schengen area we must ensure the security of our citizens. we must prioritise three essential things. first, we must secure our external borders. to do that, we must implement the decisions we’ve already taken. frontex’s new standing corps is being set up as we speak. it will support member states at the most vulnerable places along our borders, benefiting the whole schengen area. we are building the most advanced external border management system in the world by launching the entry—exit system and the european travel information and authorisation system (etias) next year and achieving full interoperability by 2023. we have state—of—the—art information systems. it’s essential to link them up to stop criminals and terrorists and to keep track of third-country nationals. second, besides protecting our borders, we must protect our citizens inside our borders. that is why we have launched strategies, initiatives and proposals to fight the trafficking of drugs, guns and human beings, to fight child sexual abuse, terrorism and organised crime. we’ve launched proposals to improve police cooperation and law enforcement information exchange to boost the mandate of europol. by the end of this year, we will present a police cooperation code to build permanent police partnerships. equally, we need to better manage migration. we have started to make good progress with the pact, with the adoption of the blue card and the political endorsement last week of the eu asylum agency. we need to continue progress step by step. better managed migration will also make schengen stronger. third, we must together take responsibility for the governance of the schengen area. the schengen forum will meet once a year to discuss key political decisions at high political level, supported by an annual state of schengen report that the commission will present later this year with the new schengen scoreboard to keep track of progress. this will support our common work in the schengen forum. we have also proposed a stronger schengen evaluation and monitoring mechanism to detect and solve problems sooner, as called for by this parliament. i’m confident that we can make very swift progress on this file, which is essential for mutual trust between member states, trust we need to have in the schengen area. later this year, the commission will present a targeted revision of the new schengen borders code to ensure that, when several member states face a crisis, we have a response that is rapid, coordinated and european, and that internal border checks remain measures of last resort. together, we have learned the lessons of past crises. since 2015, schengen has faced challenges – migration, terrorism and, most recently, the pandemic – causing member states to introduce internal border checks. secondary movements are a real issue, but internal border checks have not solved the problem and will not help us to manage migration. our new pact on migration and asylum is a much better instrument to manage migration. criminals and terrorists are a real threat, but internal border checks alone are not what will stop criminals and terrorists. we can only stop them by joining forces with better police cooperation and state—of—the—art ict systems. the virus is a real danger, but internal border checks have not, and will not, stop the virus. only coordinated action will help us to get out of this crisis. so let us now move forward on schengen together. let the start of summer, the summer of 2021, this summer of freedom, inspire us to fully restore freedom of movement and to get schengen ready for the future so our children can also work, study and travel all over europe, when they like and wherever they like. and, to complete the schengen area, it’s time for bulgaria, romania and croatia to take their place.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, there is no doubt that free movement in europe is more seriously threatened today than ever before. it is true that it was public health imperatives that led all the governments of europe to impose restrictions in the schengen area, but there was no reason why these restrictions should not be based on a uniform and homogeneous criterion. it's one thing to accept that in a pandemic situation, if you can create restrictions, it's another thing for each state to define different criteria for different types of restrictions. what the pandemic has proven is that we need a government, a schengen governance that is a governance put in the hands of the commission, that has equal criteria for all that can be implemented by each state, but according to standards that are uniform standards. and so it is so, i would say, illusory, the situation we have reached with the digital certificate that allows free movement. what we are seeing today - and i can tell you from the experience of the last three or four days flying in europe - is that in every airport and in every country we have different criteria that we do not know, even though we are using the digital certificate, and so this is already a doom of this future schengen. i would just like to end by saying, as the commissioner has said, that we are looking forward to the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia to the schengen area.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. borderless travel in the schengen area is one of our greatest achievements, yet it is highly endangered. i do not want to go into covid and schengen for a minute, because there are enough other problems, from years of illegal border controls to the lack of consistency on the part of the commission to the countless reports of serious human rights violations at our external borders. yes, a borderless eu needs a functioning border management. and that is precisely what we need, a legal framework that is binding on the member states and does not allow back doors. the european border and coast guard needs a level of leadership that protects fundamental rights and human rights, rather than tolerating and ignoring pushbacks. the commission must now address the shortcomings and weaknesses, some of which are serious, as quickly as possible so that we can draw a more positive conclusion next year.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the idea of being free of internal borders is at the very core of our union and it became a reality through the schengen agreement. free movement of people, goods and services is the basis of the european single market. we all adapted to open borders easily, and the young people now don’t even remember the times of visas and border checks. free movement comes as second nature. when most countries went into lockdown, we experienced first-hand how connected europe is and the necessity of open borders. eu citizens were stranded outside their home countries. trucks queued up at various border points. meanwhile, eu countries lacked coordination. and although we were able to find a quick fix by agreeing on green lanes to re-establish at least the free flow of goods, we should avoid such situations in the future at all costs. this summer, the eu’s digital covid certificate brings us closer to the idea of the schengen area as we know it – back to a more coordinated europe, maintaining our core freedoms. crisis after crisis, we realise the importance of the schengen area and the protection of its external borders. schengen cannot work as designed if our external borders are not properly protected. today is lithuania’s national day, a country sharing an external border with russia and belarus and reports suggest the lukashenko regime is smuggling asylum seekers to lithuania and therefore to the eu. there are many other eu border countries. we need to work together in a true spirit of the union to help them strengthen their border controls. finally, let’s not mistake schengen for the eu. let’s not forget about the eu member states which want to be part of the common area. our efforts should aim to expand it as soon as possible to make the schengen area a real common endeavour of the union.
mr president, madam vice-president, the hungarian anti-lgbti law violates european legislation. this law does not protect minors – quite the opposite. this law makes it difficult for teenagers who are struggling with their coming out to receive information. viktor orbán makes this part of their lives even more complicated for them, on purpose. this is shameful. i am glad that 18 member states co-signed a statement condemning the law. unfortunately, the signature of the czech prime minister, andrej babiš, is missing. therefore, let me make it clear that many czech citizens stand behind the hungarian lgbti community. attacks on freedom of expression and other fundamental rights must not be tolerated. having listened to some of you today, i recall that human rights are universal. we must defend them equally, not to cherry—pick which ones we defend and which ones we don’t. madam vice-president, i ask the commission to act.
the ecr group has notified the president of parliament of a decision relating to changes to appointments within a committee. that decision will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission work programme 2022 (2021/2781(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the state of play of the implementation of the eu digital covid certificate regulations (2021/2782(rsp)).
madam president, we are witnessing an attempt, which will succeed, to exploit the european commission's own failure to strengthen its power in the interests of the multinational pharmaceutical companies in particular. and yet, the contracts under which the gigantic vaccine deal was carried out by the european commission, despite a resolution calling for it by the european parliament and the european ombudsman, have not yet been made public. it's obviously a gigantic corruption. i've worked in clinical drug trials for many years, and i find the term "independent expert" ridiculous. in this case, it's nothing more than legalizing the acquisition of sensitive business information back to the benefit of multinational corporations. of course, there is no mention of the fundamental and sensitive issue of price fixing, maximum drug prices and the solidarity system.
madam president, i am glad that at least partially, we have learned from the covid-19 crisis and strengthened the critical european medicines agency (ema). and what i would especially like to underline as a very positive development is a better protection of sensitive personal health data. a european medicines supply database and transparency obligations requiring the publication of clinical tests, boosting both confidence in the system and our general research, is a great improvement. however, i feel that especially after everything that has been unveiled by the tragic health crisis, we are still in this powerful war. the ema has demonstrated great speed, reliability and scientific excellence. we need to explore what more it can do, and empower the agency to provide the best possible research and control, deeper cooperation with both national agencies and top research centres across europe. we have seen a campaign against the ema led by moscow with the help of their puppets, including prime ministers orbán, janša, babiš, or matovič, using the sputnik vaccine as a dangerous tool. so, we should not ask what the ema can do for us, but what we can do for the ema and related agencies. and i still think that there is room for improvement.
before i give the floor to our final speaker commissioner mcguinness, let me say something on one of the comments that was raised by mr ruissen which concerned the use of chinese cameras in the european parliament. as vice—president of parliament, i will make sure we look into this. if you have any more details feel free to send them to me and we will look into it and see if anything needs to be done when it comes to this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the death penalty in saudi arabia, notably the cases of mustafa hashem al-darwish and abdullah al-howaiti (2021/2787(rsp))*. _______________* see minutes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 171)
mr president, ever since mr borrell’s unfortunate visit to moscow, a clear, strong stance on eu’s relations with russia and mr putin has been awaited. in today’s ever-changing security environment, the eu either needs to talk with a unified voice or to cross out the word ‘common’ from its foreign and security policy. russia has increased its interference via disinformation campaigns that seek to undermine our society. crimea and georgia are still stripped of their territorial integrity. we see an abuse of surveillance tech, and we stay silent while putin silences opposition, as in the case of aleksei navalny. such acts go against eu values. if we want to uphold our values – let alone our security – it is essential to set out clear conditions for any future engagement with moscow in trade, in sanctions, in human rights. i hope we can agree on this report today, as our credibility lies in our unity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 september 2021.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading from the committee on foreign affairs on the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa iii) 2021-2027 (06604/1/2021 - c9-0352/2021 - 2018/0247(cod)) (rapporteurs: tonino picula and željana zovko (a9-0266/2021).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 september 2021. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by pascal arimont, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the brexit adjustment reserve (com(2020)0854 – c9-0433/2020 – 2020/0380(cod)) (a9—0178/2021), and – the report by pierre larrouturou, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft amending budget no 1/2021: brexit adjustment reserve (10945/2021– c9—0348/2021 - 2021/0022(bud)) (a9—0263/2021).
before i give the floor to our next speaker, please allow me to insert the following statement. it came to my attention that one of the previous speakers, mr ciocca, was displaying a banner in such a way that i, as the chair, couldn’t really see it. we all know that displaying banners is forbidden in this chamber, and i need to say that i find it inappropriate to play and try to circumvent the rules like kids from the kindergarten.
thank you, madam commissioner, and especially thank you for staying with us at this rather late hour. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 september 2021. written statements (rule 171)
the sitting is closed and it will resume tomorrow, wednesday, 15 september 2021 at 9.00 with the statement by the president of the commission on the state of the union. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament website.
madam president, i guess our colleague has made a very good report about quite a bad situation. why do i think the situation is bad? i can use just one example: to effectively use the data, we should have high—quality data. the quality of data depends also on the implementation of the anti—money laundering (aml) directives, and we know how poorly europe does in the area of the aml directives. in the current situation, when the member states have refused the commission initiative that would tackle the problem of tax evasion and tax avoidance via a definitive vat regime, common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) or other measures, administrative cooperation is one of the most efficient ways to tackle cross—border, intra—eu tax fraud. unfortunately, this report says that the opportunity given by this directive is by far not used enough. we need improvement in the quality of data, as well as improvement in how we use the data. we have now a lot of proposals by the commission on the table in the area of taxation, and i guess these are good proposals, but they will not be sufficient unless we will see changes to the member states’ tax administrations’ approach in dealing with tax evasion, and recognise the importance of cross—border cooperation. we are not there. so unless there is a substantial change, the proposals will not deliver the expected improvement. these days, the governments need every cent to help the budget, which is hurt by the pandemic. that is now one of the available options to improve the situation, and it’s sad to see that we are not using that effectively.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin this brief speech by congratulating, of course, sven giegold on this report, the whole group of rapporteurs and, in particular, my colleague evelyn regner. we are certainly facing a typical situation in the community institutions, where, in areas where we do not have direct competence, we push, we ask and, moreover, we regulate in the field of tax cooperation between member states, and the states do not respond. i think this report points to the problems of today. it puts its finger where it should be: on those state governments that don't even share information. i would also like to ask the members of the ppe group and the renew group to maintain the agreement reached on this report in committee in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and to avoid any opening remarks which are contrary to the work of the institutions themselves in this very important negotiation we are having in the oecd to set global minimum taxes.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for all the work they have invested in this important report. it’s my deep conviction that the idea of this report was quite excellent: to assess and analyse how we have progressed a decade after dac1. what did we learn? that we still have some difficulty in collecting information for tariff and comprehensive analysis. i believe this is a key finding, to some extent, of course, because some of the elements are evolving through time and have entered into force relatively recently so could not be taken into consideration. i think that this is also a question about the timing of this report. i do not think this is a discouragement at all. quite the contrary. we should continue our work and go forward making gradual progress. on a more positive note, a lot has changed since 2011 in terms of scope and in terms of the quality of the exchange of information achieved. however, technological development is going even faster and it is more than necessary to progress farther. i think the dac revision 8 on crypto assets is more than needed and the same goes for the information for eu and non-eu located businesses.
madam president, the nso group sold spyware to every dictator with money and created a global security risk for every democracy and every free person. we put a law in force just last week to stop european companies from doing just that. this law, the dual-use regulation, will stop companies like nso from exporting its spyware, thinly disguised via cyprus or bulgaria, but it is not enough. spyware proliferation is a global crisis that does not respect national borders. our next step, therefore, must be to ensure that producer countries such as the us join forces with us in the upcoming trade and technology council. equally, we must create a dedicated european export control agency that has the resources, manpower and information access to stop the next nso before it exposes our security and threatens our civil society.
madam president, i have not found any relevant project of the european parliament or the european commission on the important subject of the transformation of the world's food systems. i haven't heard any suggestions from the commissioner or anyone else. there's a growing imbalance on the planet between countries that can feed their people and countries that can't. the problem cannot be solved without birth control. we cannot pretend that the world population can grow indefinitely and we will always manage to manage hunger. too much population is destructive, burning the forests. it is not possible to provide enough food for the world's population, with continued growth, especially in some countries in africa, latin america and asia, where there is also insufficient purchasing power to meet import demand. the measures being promoted by the european parliament and the european commission are reducing agricultural production in europe and increasing imports will lead to further deforestation and the destruction of water resources. the decrease in exports will lead to an increase in the prices of agricultural commodities. it is necessary to accept an efficient management and abandon the naive ideology on which the plans are based. the promoted shift to a plant-based diet is unrealistic because people's eating habits are rigid. i was involved in a california state university experiment that verified this in the czech republic. it seems as if the attempt was to achieve the discontent of the population of europe.
mr president, even if it may not seem so at first glance, the common procurement of vaccines was definitely one of the historical moments of the european union. as was mentioned in the state of the union speech yesterday, we have managed to vaccinate most european citizens. this is certainly a big success, but it is a success that stands on a series of scandals, failures and a general lack of transparency. this has not only cost us public money, but also faith in the european project, which is a key factor in the challenge of convincing many european to get themselves vaccinated. lives are at stake, and we need to brace against the coming covid wave, which will come this autumn, including by ensuring that procedures are as transparent as possible, that there are no backroom deals, and that every single one of us can clearly understand the terms and conditions of the vaccine contracts that are purchased. based on this, i would like to ask a few questions. first of all, when will we have vaccine contracts fully released, and in what format? how are we finally going to get the full machinery label contracts without redacted parts? secondly, what extra steps is the commission taking to explain the details of these contracts to the parliament and to the general public? i believe that, after such a long time, just releasing them is not enough. to gain the trust of the public, what kind of effort will the commission make to ensure that the context of the negotiation is clear, that the language used, as well as its impact, is understandable and presented in a simple and approachable way? certainly, based on this clear public and parliamentary interest in making the contracts transparent, which specific steps need to be taken to change the existing commission policies concerning health care? there will be more vaccines to buy in the future, and there will be new challenges arising. to really get the most out of the unfortunate situation, i really do think we need to be able to honestly answer these questions, so we need to be able to learn more from our unfortunate mistake.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, dear madam commissioner, this report calls for a ban on facial recognition systems in public space. that’s an important step in fighting against mass surveillance. unfortunately, amendments have been tabled by a group of members with the aim of torpedoing the ban and asking for legal means to spy on citizens. i ask you to vote against these amendments. just last night, thanks to work by 600 journalists worldwide, we learned about tax avoidance and money laundering committed by billionaires and high profile-politicians. for instance, we learned that czech prime minister andrej babiš used offshore companies to buy a castle in france. with mass surveillance, journalists cannot possibly do their work safely. two journalists were murdered in the union just this year. with facial recognition in public space, oligarchs would have even more tools in their hands to persecute and oppress journalists. i speak about oligarchs who systematically work on breaches of the rule of law and on dismantling democracy. the central and eastern europeans used to live under the eye of the big brother, and we don’t want that to return.
thank you. i hope no one wants to replace me with artificial intelligence as well as the meps.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 october 2021. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by elena kountoura, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, and luisa regimenti on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the impact of intimate partner violence and custody rights on women and children (2019/2166(ini)) (a9-0254/2021).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, information warfare intensity seems to be growing as fast as global computing capacity. zero-click-spyware and ransomware attacks are exposing how vulnerable our infrastructure, our businesses and our private lives are in the digital realm. in our report we define european rules of engagement in the digital domain that are anchored in international law and we name state actors that show systemic aggressive behaviour, namely china, russia and north korea. we also recognise the advent of emerging technologies that actively change the global balance of power and call on the european member states to lead on these technological developments and to adopt a common position on autonomous weapons systems that ensures meaningful human control. equally, the european parliament calls on the member states to create a human-centric approach to ai regulation, based on democratic values. finally, the protection of our military secrets and our individual privacy can only happen with strong encryption, and it is very important for my group that we do not see any legal grey areas there. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other colleagues for including many of our proposals and for fruitful cooperation on this report, and i support the final text.
madam president, summer 2020 will forever be marked by lockdowns, travel bans, ever-changing rules, a lot of uncertainty and health risks. but it is mainly due to the vaccination campaign and introduction of the covid certificate that this year’s summer season has been so much better. the certificate, supported by both parliament and the council, was adopted and put in place within a very short time frame – just a couple of months before the summer began. it is also thanks to the efforts of the transport sector, which was able to deal with these changes in a rapid manner and to fully implement the requested measures. the whole tourism sector should be highly commended for reopening destinations in a way that might encourage even those who fear travelling to visit. this has been invaluable not only for travellers, but also for tourism-dependent regions. businesses were able to reopen, rehire staff and work towards making profits again. i believe that due to our collective effort at eu, national and local level, european tourism can now restart rebuilding itself.
for the verts/ale group. madam president, commissioner, as an exceptional matter, i shall be addressing the plenary in czech today. the upcoming digital services and digital markets acts are a beacon of hope for taking piecemeal action on disinformation, but they cannot replace the comprehensive approach we need. we wouldn't be starting the debate about traffic restrictions by asking whether you should be driving on highways at 80 or 100 miles an hour if we had no definition of what a highway is and how it differs from a sidewalk. we can say we see it, but we don't have any tools to punish those who drive on the sidewalk. my questions to the commission, mr breton, are rather specific, but i needed to make this shortcoming felt in our debate. now, to what the entire internet was dealing with yesterday: the shutdown of facebook and its associated services like whatsapp and instagram. it wasn't necessarily a cyber attack, but an internal problem that showed many how dependent our society is on the oligopolies of big corporations. the absence of competition between these tech giants results in a dependence on a limited number of providers, and such dependence also outside the online world leads to the same thing: easier to compromise the user, for example by abusing their information space. how do we prevent this from happening with other strategic networks, like gas? decentralization and diversification. and the same is true for information networks. simple and user-friendly interoperability between different platforms and applications will protect users not only from outages or attacks on the platforms themselves, but also from becoming easy targets for information attackers. how much is the commission focusing on making such interoperability a reality? yesterday, people didn't just move to twitter. many conversations that went silent on the downed platforms moved to the american signal. signal is open source and uses high-level end-to-end encryption. users have moved there because this model instills confidence in its security and code. how can we support european companies that want to emulate this approach? where is the european signal? and how can we help open source companies in general to compete with the world's giants?
madam president, high energy costs are a risk to citizens and businesses and the key factor is the price of the allowances. it is unpredictable and it has grown too high. therefore, it is time to introduce a maximal predictable price and also to limit the trading with the allowances only to businesses among the emissions trading scheme (ets), with no more speculations and no more investment funds etc. another factor in how to stabilise the cost of energy is also to respect technology neutrality. it is not possible to reach the eu climate goals only through renewables. other planet—friendly solutions, such as nuclear or low—carbon gases, simply must be put on an equal footing in a delegated framework of the sustainable finance or within the state aid rules. failing to do so would not only further increase the cost of energy, but would also question the meaningfulness of the european climate measures.
madam president, many members must feel a bit like a fireman putting out a fire that he himself has started. there are certainly many reasons for the rise in energy prices, but many of them are due to the wrong decisions of this parliament. we're talking about a bad emissions trading system that drives up the cost of electricity generation. we're talking about climate law and a sudden move away from fossil fuels. we're talking about an irrational diversion from nuclear power. all these measures are making energy production more expensive and more limited, and we are now debating how to compensate citizens for this increase. it reminds me of a famous quote by margaret thatcher: "when it moves, we tax it". if it's still moving, we can regulate it. and when it stops moving, we'll subsidize it. please consider any other proposals that will have the same devastating impact on our citizens.
madam president, whenever we have a challenge and a challenge to work for ourselves, each country for itself, we have been left alone. but whenever we have had a common challenge and faced it together, as one european union, we have managed to achieve the best results for all european citizens. an example of this was the joint procurement of covid-19 vaccines. the challenge we face today is energy and fuel prices and, in concrete terms, the challenge of seeing that european citizens do not have to choose between medicine and heating their homes, or between feeding their families and cooling their homes. and so we must concretely see that the european commission immediately comes up with proposals that leave a positive impact on the homes of all the citizens of the european union, and not that these benefits end up being taken away by those who, after all, are supplying and speculating on these energy prices. the energy union cannot leave anyone out and we must see that every country, even those islands, those on the periphery of the european union, also have a leading role in this european energy union.
president, commissioner, everyone is worried. can we pay our energy bill for the winter? and the high energy prices are putting a strain on business. this is about the very heart of our european way of life, about our families. that's what we have to protect now. how are we going to ensure that energy does not become a luxury in the short term? only by creating a genuine european energy union will we be able to find a lasting solution. firstly, it means that we will have to buy gas together and thereby put much more pressure on russia and other suppliers to negotiate affordable prices. secondly, we must work towards a genuine european energy market. it is still very difficult to get renewable energy from the north to the south. finally, we must do everything possible - everything possible, ladies and gentlemen - to make europe the leader in renewable energy. i ask you, commissioner, to come up with an ambitious plan to make europe a real energy union.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, the figures are staggering: gas prices in europe have increased fourfold in just six months, and doubled in the last six weeks, unsustainable increases in europe. these are families toasting. in my country, belgium, 20% of households are in energy poverty even before winter. i am therefore waiting, madam commissioner, for a breakthrough communication on our energy policy. and that means drastically reducing our imports of russian natural gas. today, when vladimir putin coughs, all of europe is cold. it is also likely that a european strategic reserve will have to be set up. so, if the group purchases worked for vaccines, why not for gas? i have been listening to my colleagues for more than three hours now and one thing seems clear to me: a majority of us consider that inaction is not an option, that the transition must be accelerated with - this is my opinion - absolute firmness on the objectives, but a necessary pragmatism on the means. european natural gas or nuclear: a transition whose major challenge remains the storage of these renewables, to guarantee our independence and to close this eternal debate on their original sin of intermittency.
the commission has already done so. if we do not get energy prices under control quickly, especially the socially weaker and older citizens will be pushed to the edge of their existence this winter. we must prevent this by all means. but i condemn those who want to use this debate about high energy prices to question our climate goals. among these climate populists is boris johnson, who is considering dropping climate targets to squeeze gas prices. the prospects for the climate conference in glasgow are bleak. the problematic in my view is above all the behaviour of russia. under the guise of maintenance work, prices are being raised in order to speed up the commissioning of the controversial nord stream 2 pipeline. and yet, this very dependence on fossil fuels is one of the biggest geopolitical weaknesses that we have. the alarm bells we are sounding here today should be seen as a wake-up call - a wake-up call to use the eu's multi-billion-dollar programmes to launch a full-scale offensive on renewable energy and its storage, including hydrogen, even more quickly. we must also make the state aid for environmental protection and energy more flexible for the industrial sector if we want them to be able to produce without coal and without gas. because less fossil fuel consumption means that we can also, in the short term, take the pressure off the price-bowl that our most vulnerable suffer from the most.
madam president, madam commissioner, energy and electricity are basic and necessary goods; in fact, they are essential for the well-being of our citizens and for the competitiveness of our companies. and the outrageous price increases we are experiencing all over europe are simply unacceptable. it puts economic recovery at risk and even puts at risk the necessary process of decarbonising our economy. and the main reason for this outrageous price escalation is the increase in the price of gas, which has increased by 350% so far this year. and, furthermore, this price ultimately determines the price that we pay for all electricity, for all. and that is not acceptable. we need to reform the wholesale electricity market so that we can pass on to consumers prices for other energy sources, including renewables, which are already cheaper today. and not just that. we must create a centralized platform for buying natural gas. it worked for us with the vaccines. it could also work with energy. and we must introduce measures to prevent financial speculation in the emissions market. citizens are not mere consumers of energy and public institutions should ensure that electricity companies do not treat us as such.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the situation on the energy market is very serious. prices are rising steeply, putting consumers under pressure, both households and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. and so it is up to us, the eu institutions, to take action that will significantly mitigate the negative impacts on citizens and businesses. energy must be affordable and available. we must therefore use all the tools that can contribute quickly and visibly to the solution. focus on reducing the tax burden, compensating for increased costs or whether the allowance market requires crisis intervention. colleagues, we are at the beginning of the debate on the revision of the climate and energy legislation. the current situation clearly demonstrates the need to set energy policy in such a way as to be resilient to similar scenarios of possible future crises. whether we're talking about the mechanism of emission allowances, taxation or security of supply. we must therefore exploit the potential of all energy sources, both traditional and renewable, strengthen european self-sufficiency and respond to the economic and social impacts of the green transition.
in writing. i can totally understand why my colleagues on the left are so alarmed by rising energy prices. but you have to admit, this price-driven energy armageddon is on you. your dream of a carbon-free future - regardless of humans - is getting out of hand. unfortunately, this is just a warm-up lap. if the fit for 55 package, even if only in the version presented by the commission, passes through this parliament (because i am sure that my green colleagues will be keen to make the already ambitious proposals even more stringent), then we will have a real hell and misery for all. you want to put out a supposed fire on the planet and you're going to start a real fire of social unrest that will discredit the green agenda and bring down the eu. let's stop this while there's still time. or do you want the yellow vests all over europe?
madam president, commissioner, minister, the pandora papers are the next in a series of events. we had the panama papers, luxleaks. it's another reason to continue our joint domestic efforts and especially the pressure on non-eu countries, on tax havens. we've done a lot of useful things in the last ten years. a list of non-cooperating jurisdictions has been established, and the anti-tax avoidance directive has entered into force. a major economic trading power like the european union should consider more instruments to get these countries to cooperate. luxleaks was released as official data and was the result of our efforts to be transparent. the pandora papers are only discussed here based on newspaper articles and political commentary. there was not a single document presented at today's hearing, but i'm sure many colleagues will already be presenting clear judgments. as a member of the fisc subcommittee, i would like to emphasize that we are used to working with facts, not assumptions and interpretations. i would therefore urge that all information be provided to our committee for its further work.
madam president, as a czech citizen, i have to say that it breaks my heart to admit that it is the czech prime minister who has become the european symbol of the pandora papers. andrej babiš claimed that his priority was to fight against tax havens. he claimed that he did not use offshore companies, he represented czechia in fora tackling this issue and, at the same time, he was using offshore companies. he banned journalists from le monde, ard, die zeit and others from his joint press conference with viktor orbán and left security to push journalists away so that he didn’t have to answer their questions. andrej babiš again behaves as a hypocrite, a liar and a person despising democracy, but this time also as a businessman doing shady transactions. while some past czech prime ministers and ministers have resigned over scandals involving way smaller amounts of money, andrej babiš pretends that nothing has happened. so, no, mr babiš – you have to explain the origin of the eur 15 million that you used to buy luxurious villas in the south of france.
madam president, i would like to thank the journalists first of all for their courageous work, because thanks to the pandora papers, we now see that the very people who were supposed to oversee the tax rules were exploiting the loopholes in the system, here, both dictators and top european politicians. so here we see why some politicians have been so unconcerned about making these things transparent and fair. i'm not going to be polite, i'd like to name a few, specifically andrej babiš decided on european financial regulations, first as czech minister of finance and then as czech prime minister. and all the while, he was not only in a conflict of interest as the owner of agrofert, but he was also abusing tax havens, which allowed him to buy a few mansions in france. so what's next: we need to first of all comply with the existing rules that are currently against money laundering, and we need to improve them so that this doesn't happen anymore. but also, most importantly, we need to improve the decision-making structure that we have, because otherwise, it's not going to happen. today, any member state can veto legislation against tax havens. so it's finally time to stop the unanimity decision making on these issues and to decide in europe by qualified majority, because there will always be some grandfather sitting at the table who will veto it for his own personal benefit.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the next part—session.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in myanmar, including the situation of religious and ethnic groups (2021/2905(rsp))*. _______________* see minutes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debates.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the case of paul rusesabagina in rwanda (2021/2906(rsp))*. _______________* see minutes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debates.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the state law relating to abortion in texas, usa (2021/2910(rsp))*. _______________* see minutes.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the farm to fork strategy certainly has many ambitious objectives. whether we achieve these objectives will depend first and foremost on whether they have the support of society and, above all, of those closest to them - our farmers. legislative proposals must therefore be credible, feasible and guarantee the prosperity of european agriculture and food. so if we're just biased and we don't pay attention to impact studies, we're going to make a series of failures and mistakes, just like we've made in the past with cars. only the difference is that without cars we can survive for a while, but without european food production, it's hard to do. if we lose the support of farmers, it's only a matter of time before we lose the support of the whole society. next question, where are the commitments for the other links in the chain? why should they contribute less than farmers? i hope you'll make it up to me, commissioner.
mr. prime minister, you pretend that european law is incompatible with the polish constitution. but european law protects polish citizens just like all other european citizens. i mention this because both our nations have decided to return to europe, because we share a common history and democratic values. what about the 88% of polish citizens who are in favor of poland staying in the european union? last week, there were mass protests in poland where hundreds of thousands of people gathered to express their disapproval of your attacks on the polish justice system and the european courts. what are the basic rights of polish citizens including women, minorities, lgbt community, that you recklessly deny? what about the rights of citizens in your neighborhood, typically the czech people, whose drinking water is being stolen? what do you do to your judges that they fear being accused of treason whenever they rule against your interests? this is not blackmail when i ask you to respect the basic principles of equal justice for all. because you can hardly ask for €57 billion from the european budget and have no legal control over that money. you just imagine the wolf eats and the goat stays whole.
mr. chairman, taiwan is a successful democracy. that is why they deserve our attention, our economic and political support and, above all, our commitment. for too long, we've relied on taiwan to protect us from chinese expansion, the so-called silicon shield. the actions of the chinese communist party, whether it's hybrid attacks or airspace violations, are clear. this shield won't last forever. our partnership doesn't have to be about chips, we have so much to offer each other, and together we can build a new shield... a shield of human bonds that no one can break. we must build a new shield of dialogue and, above all, of encounter. we must not be intimidated by them, as they tried to do in my country. it is our duty to offer taiwan closer commercial and cultural cooperation right now. totalitarian regimes and authoritarians must remember that an attack on one democracy is an attack on all democracies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking our colleague, charlie weimers, for producing a report that is truly something to be ashamed of this time. taiwan has shown us the way many times. last time during the coronavirus crisis, and i think he might do it again. we all know the problems we've been having in the semiconductor market lately. the automobile industry is practically in ruins. i am deeply convinced that it is much more advantageous for us to establish and deepen industrial, economic and scientific-technical cooperation with a democratically minded partner than to be dependent on resources from authoritarian countries. let's show that we are proud partners of the people of taiwan and not let mainland china destroy it like they did hong kong. chinese aggression is undermining stability and peace not just in the southeast asian region, but in the entire world, and we have to do something about it. and taiwan is the right answer.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have two options for what will happen in glasgow in relation to the eu. either we show that our eu policy is relevant and can serve as a model, or we will be laughed at. i am afraid that the adoption of this resolution, which we are discussing here, will lead to the second option: we will be laughed at. my colleagues have again broken the chain and have included a number of problematic points in the text which go far beyond the council's position. are you seriously seriously going to eliminate support for all fossil fuels, including natural gas, as soon as possible? where is your impact assessment on the integration of climate neutrality into the constitutional obligations of the member states? if we're serious about decarbonization, we need to define a credible roadmap, not write a wish list without any support in reality, especially if we want to get the developing countries on our side, who will find it more difficult than us to meet the paris agreement. vote against it.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen in the pandora papers case, people with money and influence still manage to circumvent european anti-money laundering rules and then, by various dubious maneuvers, buy secret castles in france and so on. it is not acceptable for government officials to deceive citizens with hidden dirty money stored in the caribbean while actually, perhaps because of their position, within the council, they are cutting more and more countries off the list of tax havens. we urgently need to review the european union's anti-money laundering legislation to ensure that it works better. laws can only really work if people respect them. i am deeply concerned that for example the czech government has managed for four years to successfully avoid transposing the european directive including the parts on ownership and identity or on access to information, because here it really seems to me that the czech government is acting according to the saying that if you don't steal, you steal from your family. so i very much welcome the commission's proposal to make the existing provisions, which are voluntary, compulsory and to establish a european union anti-money laundering office to ensure transparency. but unfortunately, we're gonna have to do a lot more than we've done so far.
mr president, listening to this whole debate, i decided to dedicate the first half of my speech to silence for the victims of dictators who are manipulating human lives. (silence)now to business. i urge the member states to extend the sanctions against lukashenko’s regime, as well as other enablers of this unacceptable human trafficking, and to start discussing activation of article 4 of the north atlantic treaty. moreover, poland needs the help and cooperation of frontex and the european asylum support office to stop illegal pushbacks at the eu borders. proper registration of asylum claims needs to start now, before the winter strips these people of their last hopes and lives, and it needs to happen yesterday.
the next item is the report by michaela šojdrová, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the european education area: a shared holistic approach (2020/2243(ini)) (a9-0291/2021).
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the participation of the union in the european partnership on metrology jointly undertaken by several member states (com(2021)0089 – c9‑0083/2021 – 2021/0049(cod)) (a9—0242/2021).
mr president, this is not a proposal that would fill the headlines of newspapers, but this is a proposal that clearly shows the potential for european cooperation. this is also a bit more personal file for me because before coming into politics, i also worked in a metrology institution, and i would like to use this opportunity to say thanks to all that work in this essential, although little-discussed, area. first, i’m very glad how this proposal went. we got more openness in how we use the results of scientific work. there is still a very, very long way to go towards really open science, but this is a good sign. at the same time, distribution of costs seems to be logical: with the eu paying for the research and the projects and the member states covering the administrative costs. this european level of cooperation is, in my eyes, made even better by increased european oversight and more inclusion of scientists in it. the speed with which this file was prepared so it could start working for a better future is also commendable, and i thank my colleagues for it. this will be especially helpful for the smaller member states, where the resources for development in the field are hard to come by.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after three and a half years of negotiations, the epp and its negotiating team, of which i had the honour to be a member, have no reason to be ashamed of their record. this interinstitutional agreement will help to maintain a balance between the necessary economic development of agricultural sectors and rural areas, the essential income support for our farmers and the essential transition of european agriculture towards greater sustainability. the support mechanisms of the future cap and the financial and control requirements will remain common, a necessary guarantee to limit distortions of competition within the internal market itself. we have also strengthened the instruments to combat fraud, while for the first time incorporating a right to error for farmers. we have also thoroughly reformed the common organisation of the markets and a crisis reserve of at least €450 million is being set up to fight crises. market observatories and management tools are being strengthened. so, yeah, not everything is perfect. nevertheless, this new cap, which i call on each and every one of you to support today, is the antithesis of the project of decreasing the agricultural sector promoted by certain political groups. supporting the cap means enabling the agricultural sector to develop. voting against it is a vote in favour of a project that could lead to the end of our food sovereignty, leaving the rest of the world to feed us without any significant environmental or climate gains. i have made my choice.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after more than three years of negotiations, we are today presenting to the european citizens the reform of the cap, which will accompany our farmers until 2027. this is a reform which our group has criticised, expressing its opposition to the renationalisation of european intervention in the agricultural sector, but which we have continued to work on and improve, until we have reached the present balance between the three levels of economic, social and environmental sustainability. i would like to thank the whole negotiating team, my colleagues pina picierno, eric andrieu and maria noichl, and the whole technical team who made this possible. without the support of parliament, some of the key points of this agreement would not have been possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. we have also safeguarded the role of the regions, which will continue to play a leading role in the drafting of strategic plans, with the knowledge of the territorial dynamics needed to overcome the environmental and social challenges that lie ahead. without parliament, the environmental ambition of a policy that will instead, from 2023, allocate a quarter of direct aid to ecosystems and at least 35% of rural development funds to measures of high environmental value would be mortified. these are the results that will determine the fundamental contribution of the cap and our farmers to the achievement of the objectives that the union has set itself with the green deal. all this without sacrificing the economic dimension of the cap. we want agriculture to be even stronger and more competitive, and to be able to guarantee the food security of our citizens. income support remains an essential element, accompanied by strengthened risk management measures and higher ceilings for youth support and coupled aid. in addition, crops emblematic of our agri-food system, such as fruit and vegetables, wine and olive oil, together with others, depending on national specificities, will continue to be supported by ad hoc sectoral interventions. this is without forgetting the geographical indications of the protection groups, which will finally be able to manage the supply of products and thus respond better to market fluctuations. today we are voting on all these results. i therefore ask everyone to vote in favour of this reform, and i also ask all my colleagues in the group, who are not all equally satisfied with the results. i think we should claim this achievement with pride. it has been many years of negotiations, but it has paid off, for a stronger, common, fairer and more sustainable agricultural policy.
for the renew group. madam president, the reform of the agricultural policy is two years late. it just goes to show the complexity of our negotiations. the common policy affects ten million farmers and tens of millions of jobs. it determines the character and nature of the landscape, guarantees the level of protection of the environment, soil, water, air, pollinators and the future of our ecosystems. i think we should apologize to our farmers. mostly for keeping them in prolonged uncertainty at a time that was definitely not and is not easy. in times that are increasingly unpredictable. farmers have a special position in society, they have to do business in a way that provides many social services. they have to do business in a situation of ever-increasing inputs, while being squeezed by the power of supply chains. and we want them to have the cheapest, best quality food in the world all the time. they have to deal with more and more bureaucracy and regulations. is that even sustainable? or will energy poverty soon be accompanied by food poverty? because farmers will no longer be able to shoulder the burden of social cohesion in europe. it's five minutes past 12:00, but we still have a chance. on what grounds? that they'll be able to invest. today's vote is about nothing less than giving farmers at least a minimum assumption of stability for the years ahead and the ability to decide on investments in modern technologies, in ecological production processes and in strengthening their role in the supply chain. only this combination will mean green prosperity for all. today's vote is a chance to do that. a vote against is not a vote for the environment, it is a vote for chaos, food poverty and the high price of quality food available only to a small handful of society.
the so-called common agricultural policy is common only in the sense that it makes common regulations. it is not common in the sense that it takes account of the common interests of the citizens of the european union. it will harm farmers by further restricting their activities and cannot be supported even though the worst that was proposed did not ultimately pass the negotiations. the proposal was to change external convergence, but the situation where farmers in some countries receive up to four times more in subsidies than in others will continue and will get worse. the whole reform is going in the wrong direction, the aim of agricultural policy is no longer to finance the production of quality european food in such a way as to ensure the self-sufficiency of individual countries, but the aim is clearly to reduce food self-sufficiency, to reduce production. there will be a reduction of about 20 percent, and it is expected to reduce farmers' incomes by about 25 percent according to official figures, and increase food prices by at least 10 percent, for that reason alone. there are other reasons for this. add to this the other restrictions that will be imposed, such as a 50% reduction in fertilisers, and this again very unevenly across countries, leading to a worsening of conditions in countries where fertilisers have already been low. the amount of money for subsidies in the second pillar has been cut due to the shift to photovoltaic power plants, wind farms and 5g mobile networks. since this reform will worsen the agricultural conditions and the social situation in the countryside, i cannot vote for it.
mr president, mr commissioner, today, almost at the end of 2021, we are standing here to approve a new form of the common agricultural policy, which was to have been in force since january of this year. it should have been adopted two years ago so that member states could set rules based on it. so we're two years behind schedule. there's no room to argue about whether it should be more green, or whether it should be more helpful to farmers. unfortunately, we have reached a situation where the only way out is to accept the resulting compromise. not only do our farmers need to know the rules of farming, but they also need to have time to prepare for them. agriculture does not work by the european parliament approving one thing in the morning and the others following the rules in the afternoon. in agriculture, there are still natural laws that some of you try to fight against. please support this compromise, you will help both nature and at the same time allow our farmers to farm and provide enough affordable food for our citizens.
madam chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are in agreement on the cause. it's lukashenko, the bastard with his cynical hybrid war, playing into putin's hands. but that's all talk, we're hardly ever looking for a consensus on action. unfortunately, the solution is not the naive, well-meaning humanism that some of you advocate. we're just gonna keep putting our heads on the noose for these bastards. ladies and gentlemen, the lithuanians, poles, latvians are fighting for us here, and we have an obligation to help them in this struggle to protect the borders. the european union is supposed to help them with money to improve border security. if we can help turkey, why can't we help poland? we as member states should also offer help by sending police, by sending troops so that the poles, the latvians, the lithuanians are not alone in protecting the borders.
thank you, vice-president, and indeed many of the members of the id group left after they had their speech, which makes it a non-debate. nevertheless, the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday, 24 november 2021, and the final vote will take place on thursday, 25 november 2021. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by karlo ressler and damian boeselager, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the budgetary conciliation committee, on the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2022 approved by the conciliation committee under the budgetary procedure (11352/2021 – c9-0353/2021 – 2021/0227(bud)) (a9—0326/2021).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. (the sitting was suspended at 20.10.)
mr. speaker, distinguished senators, one thank you and one warning. thank you we have finally reached a commitment to end deforestation soon. we have repaired what this house screwed up 15 years ago when, in the name of biofuels, we motivated all countries to start cutting down their forests. now we've finally fixed it. and one caveat: we came to glasgow as the european union with fit for 55, but where's china, where's india, where's australia, where's russia? where is the united states of america? where are the billions of dollars for infrastructure development, highways, railroads? and we come in with a belt buckle. but i think of those who are 55 and older and don't live in a rich country like the netherlands, but in a poorer one, and are about to face the biggest energy price hike in history and don't know how to deal with it. please think of them.
thank you, minister, for your closing remarks on behalf of the council. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
before we move on to the next debate, i have an announcement. the president has received a letter from the authorities in poland clarifying the question of the competent authorities for the request for the parliamentary immunity of włodzimierz cimoszewicz to be waived, which had been announced in plenary on 14 september 2020. in accordance with the rules of procedure, this referral is referred again to the committee on legal affairs for the resumption of this procedure.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the state of the energy union (2021/2976(rsp)).
mr president, the rule of law in slovenia is unfortunately deteriorating quite rapidly. but as the only member representing the budgetary control committee during our mission to slovenia, i have to admit that i observed something i would call grassroots-level corruption. there is a big lack of competition in the country due to its size, and more than 90% of public procurements are won by local companies. for example, one single company can win most of the construction contracts as it is very much connected to the establishment. i am afraid we should strive for a more open, transparent and integrated eu single market on public procurement. i also witnessed a very high level of pressure on the independence of different state institutions and civil society organisations. the government is cutting funds, initiating intimidation lawsuits and verbally attacking anyone who dares to investigate or criticise its actions. one example of good journalism is the slovenian press agency, which unfortunately relies almost exclusively on governmental funding.
madam president, commissioner, rare diseases affect more than 30 million people in the european union and more than 600 000 in portugal. there are about 6,000 rare diseases, each one affecting a small number of people, but collectively they represent a lot of patients, and we're not giving them the right response. diagnosis can take up to five years. treatments are scarce, covering only 6% of the diseases. in 2009, the european union adopted the rare disease strategy, which is still in place today. i myself, as rapporteur for the specific programme horizon 2020, included rare diseases in the priorities, which made possible the joint programme that exists today. we've made progress, but we're falling short of expectations. we need to review the strategy by 2023 at the latest. in my view, there are two points that we must safeguard: the strengthening of scientific research, the strengthening of cooperation in this field, not only in europe but at a global level. we need to create a strong innovation ecosystem in the area of rare diseases and a new strategy for data sharing in the area of health. the exchange of information and knowledge is particularly important in the fight against these diseases.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in dealing with the question of rare diseases and the european strategy to be implemented in this regard, two aspects must be borne in mind: the problem of the availability of appropriate medicines and therapies and, at the same time, the problem of access to and the right to care for all patients, and in all european countries, where these therapies are already available. in this context, italy has just passed a comprehensive and organic law on rare diseases, which allocates funds and programmes both for research and for patient support. however, this cannot be left to the individual states, because one of the fundamental problems of rare diseases is the lack of data which hinders the identification of therapies and clinical pathways. but above all, the union must play a key role in coordinating, promoting good practice and, even more decisively, guaranteeing equal rights for all patients with rare diseases. my thoughts are especially with the children who are affected by such terrible diagnoses and their families. these diseases can only be tackled effectively at european level. the european plan for rare diseases must therefore be made a priority in the context of the european union of health, the implementation of which is becoming more urgent day by day. the socialist group stands by all the sick and their families and we call on the commission to act promptly to tackle this urgent issue with concrete measures.
madam president! today, there are about 30 million of us europeans who have been diagnosed with one of the rare diseases. we have 30 million reasons why we need a coordinated and integrated approach to solving the problems we face every day. tonight's debate as an ambassador for rare diseases is a cause for optimism. why would you do that? last week, a committee of the united nations general assembly adopted a resolution addressing the challenges facing people living with a rare disease and their families. this is a huge step for a community of patients who are too often stigmatized and marginalized. the union-funded rare 2030 study also concludes that the current strategy needs to be updated. we also need to encourage innovation. slovenia has made remarkable progress in its newborn screening programme, which detects as many as 40 rare diseases in a child and ensures timely intervention. we must ensure that the european action plan to combat rare diseases is also one of the priorities of the next presidency of the council of the union.
madam president, i am very proud that within the transform mep interest group, we help to promote the enormous potential of transformative therapies for rare disease patients. one of the key challenges today is lack of data. methods based on the collection and use of real world data represents a possible solution. therefore, the european health data space shall enable usage of real world data in the lifetime management of transformative therapies. furthermore, cross-border patient data exchange and adequate funding for a european reference network are crucially important. madam commissioner, let me invite you to propose an eu rare disease action plan based also on the recommendations of the rare 2030 foresight study. this is very important, because this concerns some 30 million eu patients who are waiting for us to take action.
enpresident. – the next item is the report by elissavet vozemberg-vrionidi and sylwia spurek, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on combating gender-based violence: cyberviolence (2020/2035(inl)) (a9-0338/2021). i should like to remind members that for all debates of this part-session, there will be no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, as during recent part-sessions, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum. i therefore kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers list and to approach the rostrum when your speaking time is imminent.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. other madam president, commissioner, in the introduction to the opinion i was rapporteur for in the itra committee, i wrote that a european approach to digital markets focused on better services for citizens and better conditions for business will create a more balanced and transparent global digital market, inspired by common european principles and values, thus enhancing the geopolitical relevance of the european union and contributing to a fairer and more sustainable globalisation. the report before us today largely reflects this vision and ambition. i am grateful to the itra shadow rapporteurs who, with their enormous commitment and capacity for dialogue, helped to build and to adopt, with 73 votes in favour and only one abstention, a robust opinion that responded to the priorities we set, the transparent competitiveness of markets, the safeguarding of the role of small and medium-sized enterprises, the creation of a suitable regulatory environment for startups and professional users in the digital ecosystem. the benefit to consumers, with solutions such as interoperability or access to data for communication purposes by express consent, which later inspired fruitful joint work under rule 57+. the joint work of the seven committees involved in this report was not easy, but its result is relevant. the result we have achieved is a source of pride for parliament and an excellent basis for negotiations with the council in the spirit of constructive dialogue aimed at simplifying and making the regulation more effective and providing the objective conditions for its application. by adopting this report, we will be taking a step forward in a digital transition in which the values and principles of the european partnership remain embedded. with them, we must be able to make a difference in the fight for a more just, more inclusive and more sustainable world.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i have very much been looking forward to stand here today in this plenary debate. it is a landmark today – that we have gotten here within this very short timeframe. i would very much like to thank andreas schwab, stéphanie yon-courtin and carlos zorrinho who just had the floor, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and all the members who have worked intensively on this proposal. it is your determination, it is your commitment, it is the debates on a number of really important questions, that has led us to where we are today. i think every voter who has followed this debate and who will follow the trilogues will see that parliament is putting action into words. now you have a compromise in front of you reflecting the intensity and the breadth of your debate, and today’s debate follows the unanimous general approach by council. i hope that acknowledges the solidity and robustness of the commission proposal, and a successful vote tomorrow after hopefully an intense debate today, means that trilogues can begin. it is a landmark proposal and we can begin trilogues hopefully within a year from the time that it was tabled. i think that lives up to the expectation of taking action and taking speedy action. of course, it is a complex proposal, but it has a very simple aim: to make sure that markets are open, are fair, are contestable so that every business has a fair chance of making it to their customers. unfortunately, as you will know from our competition cases, this is not necessarily the case today. i would like to add just one more thing, and that is that i hope that speed is also reflected when it comes to our second landmark proposal, the digital service act. i know the work that has gone into it, i know the debates that you are having, i know how tricky it has been, so i hope that soon we can also start the trilogues on that proposal. on that, i will eagerly listen to the debate here today.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs and non-rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to take part in this debate on the adr today, almost exactly one year after the commission's proposal. your work, which has just been mentioned, to move forward with determination on this issue, shows a common desire of the three european institutions to reach a political agreement and adopt the mdb as soon as possible. and i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr andreas schwab, mrs stéphanie yon-courtin and all the fictitious rapporteurs. i can only reiterate the importance of moving forward quickly. we cannot wait any longer to organise the digital space and europe has taken the lead on this. because we have to be clear: today, a handful of platforms have taken control of access to our internal market, especially in relation to innovative companies and startups, effectively reducing the choice, quite simply, for our citizens. as such, the practice of monitoring abusive behaviour on a case-by-case basis is no longer appropriate. the time has therefore come for europe to have innovative internal market regulation that applies ex ante. with the dma, and for the first time, we are introducing a set of innovative elements: an access controller (gatekeeper) platform and its potential impact on the internal market will be looked at, certainly in terms of its turnover and users, but also its market value. because yes, it is now an important parameter in the imbalance we see with regard to the actors. the obligations introduced will thus make it possible to establish ex ante the prohibition of the misuse of user data for gatekeeper platforms. ladies and gentlemen, let us not be mistaken: with the dma and the dsa, which are, after all, two sides of the same coin - the regulation of the information space - europe is taking the lead in defining global standards for our digital space. of course, we all hear some criticism from across the atlantic about our approach, despite attempts at alignment, particularly in the ttc, which have therefore proved unsuccessful on this point at this stage. but i will say it again, our legislation is not against this or that company or country, it is designed to safeguard innovation and the proper functioning of our internal market. i would therefore like to pay tribute to the parliament and the council who, despite the lobbies we have all seen, have managed to maintain 100% of the ambition of the dma. i hope that you will confirm this approach by your vote and i would like to thank you all once again.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. online platforms now determine who gets seen and who doesn't. they set the prices. they decide who gets access to what information, and they dictate the rules of the digital ecosystems. the digital markets act has the potential to ensure fair competition online if it is not limited to the giants. anyone who only cares about gafam -- google, apple, facebook, amazon, microsoft -- anyone who only cares about these -- is missing the fact that there are other problematic gatekeepers in many sectors for which we need to create rules. in the tourism sector, smes in particular are often dependent on platforms and have to adapt to their requirements. we need more innovation and competition here, even if we are now in the process of re-engineering many things in the interests of sustainability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. while i fully support the basic idea of the dma to prohibit from the outset business practices that are detrimental to diversity, i must also note that the current position of the parliament does not take sufficient account of the impact on the media sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is a lack of clear separation from the audiovisual media services directive in the articles and a lack of clarity that the dma scheme does not affect the avmd. the text of the article also does not explicitly allow member states to take measures to ensure diversity in the media. quality journalism and media diversity are essential to our democracy and also one of the most effective tools against disinformation and fake news. i think that connected tv has no place in the text either, especially since it is a description of a device and not a service. in my view, there is still a lot of work to be done in the trilog to achieve an optimal balance between interoperability, media separation, data sharing rules and data protection. i hope that this trilogy will also be based on the principle of thoroughness before speed. i wish all the negotiators success.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the digital markets act is, of course, a milestone in the regulation of the big tech companies. i should therefore like to spend my time here to tell you how historic this decision is and what improvements we have made in parliament. i would like to focus on one aspect that is particularly close to my heart, and that is interoperability. it sounds technical and it's hard to get through. and you can't make good headlines with the word interoperability. but interoperability is the key to breaking through the walled gardens that the tech companies have set up. and that is why it is important to put this key in the hands of the users and give them the power to break the quasi-monopolists. and i am therefore glad that the present compromise is so strong there. and i hope that we can make that compromise work. madam president, if you'll give me ten more seconds, i would like to thank evelyne gebhardt, the s&d shadow rapporteur, who will be leaving parliament in january after some 27 years, and wish her every success with the last trilogues. thank you for everything you've done for us.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, high concentration of market power by a handful of companies is never good for competition. such business structure deforms the market and creates barriers to the entry of new companies. ultimately, that leads to slower innovation, increased costs and harm to consumers. that’s the theory but, in practice, this is what is happening right now in the global market in digital services. the big platforms quickly strengthen their position, while other companies struggle to compete as there is no real level playing field. the digital markets act (dma) will bring solutions to this problem. it will provide a clearer and more predictable framework for businesses, but also for enforcement authorities. we want to prevent big platforms’ gatekeepers from abusing their powers and enable their competitors to innovate and grow. the dma does not aim to target a couple of business groups with heavy restrictions, but it sets out the rules needed for the respect of basic principles, such as fair competition and consumer protection. in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), we mainly dealt with the preservation of a high level of protection of user rights, especially with regard to data privacy. data is critical. this is what gives power to companies. we need to ensure that anything that happens to europeans’ personal data fully complies with the general data protection regulation, and we must also make sure not to create loopholes circumventing it. i would like to thank all the shadows and libe colleagues that helped us put together the opinion and wish all success to the negotiating team headed by andreas schwab for the upcoming trilogue on this important piece of legislation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, madam executive vice-president vestager, commissioner breton. after months of negotiations, parliament will finally vote on its position on the digital markets act. this is a big moment in history for europe. the vast majority of us recognise the need to increase digital markets’ contestability and ensure fairness. the commission has done a great job in proposing legislation with the aim to achieve this. and now the european parliament has the chance to reinforce the commission’s proposal to the benefit of consumers. internal market rules must have consumers’ interests at the centre. this is particularly important when it comes to provisions on interoperability. some of my colleagues highlighted the importance of interoperability and like to speak about that too. by strengthening provisions on interoperability of messaging services and social networks, we can establish a market with more privacy-friendly services to choose from. we don’t need to get stuck in dominant social networks that monetise our data and target us with a target us with commercial offers based on our biggest fears or keep us locked in information bubbles. we don’t need to open a dozen chat service accounts and install a dozen applications to stay in touch with our friends. it’s just a matter of decision, a decision that europe has to make. a decision to provide more opportunities for competition and smes. a decision for more innovation, and the opportunity is now. to wrap up, i’d like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and the opinion rapporteurs for their constructive work on this extremely important proposal, and i am looking forward to the trilogue.
madam president, unfortunately we are sitting here again while sensing another war in europe. the russian unprecedented military activities and build-up in the proximity of the ukrainian borders are clear evidence that russia is willing to escalate the crisis. the us promised unprecedented sanctions in case of moscow’s escalation. what will the eu promise – a direct neighbour and partner of ukraine? they got away with it in georgia. they got away with it in crimea. has the time when we leave the ambiguity and be clear that we won’t stand idly by finally come? will we impose strong, targeted sanctions, notably in the bank, gas and oil sectors, and make sure that the price for a war is not one that russia wants to pay? it is up to you, mr borrell, it is up to you, council. set the price really high, otherwise the one who will have to pay will be ukraine, closely followed by us.
madam president, theodore roosevelt once famously said you speak softly but keep a hammer in your hand, and our problem is that occasionally we are behaving otherwise. we have nice speeches, yes, we should support ukraine independence, we should support their right to decide about their future. we also rightly criticise putin and his aggressive behaviour, but we do nothing to deter him from action. this is our problem. we should be able to deploy strategic weapons in the eastern theatre. we should be able to declare sanctions that would hurt him, not sanctions which produce just his laugh. but our problem is that occasionally we are rather putting our heads right into putin’s throat, with our increasing dependence on russian gas, with our inability to support nuclear energy. this is our problem and until we change that, nothing will happen.
we now continue with the debate on the report by lukas mandl on cooperation on the fight against organised crime in the western balkans (a9—0298/2021).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 december 2021.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission by bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on implementation of the kimberley process certification scheme (o-000073/2021 – b9-0044/21). i should like to remind members that for all debates of this part-session, there will be no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum. i therefore kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the rostrum when your speaking time is imminent.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 december 2021.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the outcome of the global summit nutrition for growth (japan, 7-8 december) and increased food insecurity in developing countries (2021/2997(rsp)). i should like to remind members that for all debates of this part-session, there will be no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum. i therefore kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the rostrum when your speaking time is imminent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it's time to change course. i totally understand that the rrf was intended as a hotfix to the covid situation. it is simply a quick remedy to ensure confidence in our european future. but now we should also consider how the money will be used. because some of those national plans that have been submitted by member states and are still being reviewed are being reviewed because of rule of law issues. others have been approved, but when i look at the czech plan, for example, i have to say that it is more or less a combination of old projects without any ambition or long-term planning. and here i think the commission should be more stringent. we clearly need to raise our ambitions within the rfg, we simply need plans that solve real people's problems and that allow us to make really sustainable investments. we need better digitisation, better transparency and consistent budgetary control, because bad investments will deprive us of much-needed funding, but also, and most importantly, will distort market conditions and increase corruption and, in general, simply damage the legal environment in europe, and that's not what we want.
