the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow, tuesday, 19 january 2021, and the final vote will take place on wednesday, 20 january 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report 2019 (2019/2866 ((rsp)). we welcome the president of the court of auditors, mr klaus-heiner lehne. i would remind members that there are no spontaneous interventions in any of the debates of this part-session, that no blue cards are accepted and that we have also provided for the possibility of secondments from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thank you for the two extensive reports from the court. i have to say, they really have it in them. i'm guessing commissioner hahn had to swallow when he saw the failed audit in the expense department. but that's good. that's the only way financial control works. it must hurt. as rapporteur for the commission's 2019 discharge, i am naturally particularly interested in the reports, and i am even dependent on them. and i'm very grateful for the clear structure. it'll make it easier for me to write my report. i do not want to talk about your reports today, because we have done so many times in the cont committee, and very thoroughly and in principle. i would like to point out a particular problem: i have the impression that the court of auditors is respected in this parliament, but it does not receive the support it needs to fulfil its task. i am afraid that too many of us are busy thinking about what we need more of our own money for or what programme we could put forward. i think it would be much more important to consider how we can be more careful and economical with the taxpayers' money. the whole parliament should be a supervisory authority. we would prefer to leave this task to the few colleagues here in the cont committee, who are all very committed and will then take care of it. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. he's one of the hardest working people. please equip it to better perform its comprehensive control tasks. the commission, please give us access to all information relevant to the budget, including that of dg sante. and then, ladies and gentlemen, let us also strengthen the court of auditors with staff and material resources - the president has spoken about this - and also with the mandate for a comprehensive audit right at the eib. we cannot increase the budget by 85% and adopt six new own resources and then hope that the court of auditors can cope with the staff it has so far! only the man who wants less control can want that. let us not only respect the good work of the court, but rather strengthen it, making sure that it is not a knight without a sword but an effective weapon in the fight to protect the financial interests of the eu. i'm sure president lehne won't be the only one pleased.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. thank you very much for your presentation. i would like to draw your attention to three aspects: firstly, the fact that there is now at last a performance report, secondly, the relatively high error rates in parts of the eu budget and thirdly, the historic high of the commitments still to be disbursed that you mentioned, in the case of the backlog. we need to have as accurate a picture as possible of the actual performance of eu spending. and now that has improved significantly with the coherent performance report - that should be mentioned here as well. at the same time, the reliability and completeness of the data provided from many countries need to be improved. the european court of auditors, together with the commission, should press for reliable data from the capitals in order to be able to make truly verifiable statements on the overall performance of eu expenditure. secondly, in selected areas such as cohesion and competitiveness, the error rates are still too high. the differences between the echr audit reports and the commission's own data are also striking. the internal control system must be improved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the biggest eu expenditure item still lacks the necessary effectiveness. the billions of dollars are not being spent on biodiversity, climate change or animal welfare. but for agriculture, the requirements of the european green deal mean that eu funds must be used more effectively to meet climate change objectives. thirdly, the historical backlog. we are now talking about almost 300 billion euros, which the commission must make available in the next mff. the problem is not only the absolute amount but also the fact that the commitment appropriations are much higher than the payment appropriations and that the commission could be in danger of becoming insolvent. in this context, the new mff urgently needs to increase the speed of disbursement in order to improve the rate of utilization, especially for the structural and investment funds.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. ladies and gentlemen, if services account for some 70% of the eu's economic output, but only about 20% of intra-european trade, then we have too much wasted potential because too many member states are still creating unjustified barriers to protectionism. we must now harness this potential, even as we emerge from the economic crisis. because more competition means more opportunities, more markets for businesses, more choice at more competitive prices for consumers. we need this above all for the digital economy. digital business models, digital services need to be much easier to scale across the eu. the digital services act and the digital markets act must also remove barriers to this. and rules for artificial intelligence and other new disruptive services, technologies need to be made at european level. i want us to put the union at the forefront of innovation. and that's not possible with national initiatives. this requires a common european market: the digital single market. the cornerstone of this is a real market for services. and this report is a great place to start.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the coronavirus crisis has shown us the importance of good universal health care. more than ever, people in the european union need good basic health care. but it's not just important in times of corona. public transport, waste disposal and a functioning water supply are the basic building blocks of our society. studies have shown that people in regions with weak infrastructure feel left out and are more likely to vote for the far right. nevertheless, there are forces here in the european parliament and in the commission that want to liberalize still more, still further, that feel that high standards and public services are obstacles to a genuine internal market for services. but, ladies and gentlemen, the european single market is a success story precisely because we have high standards for workers, for the environment and for consumers, because we have empowered local authorities to organise a real and strong social welfare system. and the eu must not undo all this, otherwise resentment against europe will rightly grow. fortunately, we greens, together with the social democrats, have prevailed on many points in the negotiations on this report. but i want to make one thing very clear again today: please do not put the axe to the foundation of our society in the future. let us develop the internal market further, yes, but please with high standards, with effective public services and with strong communities!
in writing. the provision and use of services across europe has become a daily reality for businesses and consumers in the member states. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. however, the eu must accept that it cannot ignore the laws in force in the member states and disparagingly refer to these laws as 'unjustified barriers' to access to the internal market. the demand for a european social security number is also nothing but the desire for a single european social security system, which is tantamount to a further disempowerment of the member states and must be rejected. the same is true of the green deal, which is an exaggerated and economically destructive environmental idea that is being used to exploit the internal market.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the preservation of cultural heritage is of course a matter of great concern to a group like ours. we know that the cultural roots are the first source of the self-confidence and self-understanding of our fellow citizens. if you have no history, no identity, if you don't know who you are and who came before you, you cannot be a citizen, you are a subject. "the inner man shapes the outer man", said friedrich schiller, and this is the motto of a group called identity and democracy. in this respect we naturally support the efforts of this house to protect and develop europe's cultural heritage. but we also see the danger of politicizing it, of not protecting what is there of culture and history, but of creating a fake culture that fits what you want politically at the moment. we heard it today: the commission is also proposing to include climate change in the protection of cultural heritage. i don't think beethoven or baudelaire or balzac ever thought about climate change. if we want to protect culture, we must protect the culture that exists, not the culture that we construct. then let us remember the people who have gone before us, and not make a choice by tearing down the monuments. that is why we have made changes to the proposal which is in the chamber. we ask you to consider these amendments so that we can protect the real cultural heritage of europe and not a fake heritage that is constructed to serve the bumbling of current politics.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have the honour today to present a small european success story. the technical support instrument (tsi) generates knowledge for member states’ public administrations and it allows them to implement sustainable reforms and investments, drawing – with the help of the european commission – on the best and tailor-made expertise available. so it is no coincidence that it enjoys strong support from all member states. thanks to a strong position of the european parliament – and here i would like to thank my co-rapporteurs, othmar karas and dragoș pîslaru, for their excellent cooperation on this file – today we have a technical support instrument that is substantially greener, more gender-equal and ensures stronger transparency. that is to say, it is more in line with today’s european priorities. first of all the european green deal, because knowledge about climate mainstreaming and climate tracking methodologies, for example, will help member states to make their economies and their societies future—proof. strong transparency mechanisms will help to showcase the positive contribution of the european union and foster pro—european attitudes, and more power to local and regional levels will enhance change from the bottom with the more direct involvement of citizens. so, we have many reasons to be proud of this new instrument. but let me first explain what the technical support instrument actually is. it supports member states in their efforts to implement reforms and investments, giving them the institutional and administrative capacity they need. that means that member states can simply ask the european commission for help and the european commission will either provide the expertise directly, or task experts to do so, working very closely with member states. the tsi replaces the structural reform support programme, which has successfully supported over 1 000 reform projects in the 27 member states since 2017. it has a budget of eur 864 million for the period 2021—2027, and although it is a standalone instrument it will also assist the national authorities in implementing the recovery and resilience plans successfully. as i mentioned at the beginning, the tsi is more than the continuation of a successful programme. it specifically addresses crucial challenges of our time – climate change and the european green deal – listing among the eligible actions, which are a sort of menu for the member states to pick and choose from, methodologies for climate tracking. this is a crucial instrument, which we need in order to fulfil not only our climate goals, but also to raise awareness on local, regional and national levels to the many ways in which reducing co2 emissions can also improve the life of citizens. for example by reducing air pollution in cities, which is something our citizens care about. then there is the resilience of our health care systems. we are still in the midst of the covid—19 pandemic, which has demonstrated all too clearly how essential well—organised public health systems are. there is also the digitalisation of public services, upskilling policies in the labour market – we know how much change we will experience in the labour market in the next years – and the fight against poverty and income equality. then there is the last point, which is particularly close to my heart: gender equality. because when we speak about competitivity and growth, we often forget one of the key factors to achieve sustainable growth, competitivity and more social justice at the same time, and that is gender equality. there is ample evidence that gender equality in the labour market is closely linked to economic growth. there is also ample evidence that women are currently paying the highest economic price for the covid—19 crisis.so, in order to overcome this crisis successfully, we need to support gender equality. the right way to do this is to invest public funds equally between men and women. this is not easy, because it requires a good methodology and often even external expertise, and that is one reason why many administrations still shy away from it. unfortunately, this has also been true for our european commission, which shied away from gender impact assessments in the recovery and resilience fund for that reason. this is the reason why parliament insisted on including expertise on gender budgeting and gender impact assessment among the eligible actions. all administrations therefore have access to the best methods to determine what impact their measures and budgets have on women and men and how to promote a more gender—equal – and therefore more inclusive and more successful – society. i am convinced that the technical support instrument will make an important contribution to the socially inclusive, green and digital transition we urgently need in europe.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the eu recovery facility, or rrf, is the heart of the emergency nextgenerationeu programme, which the commission is using to pretend that it is finally making the eu crisis-proof. the recipe: 'ever closer union', that is, the very cause of the eu's long-term crisis. with the rrf, the eu is writing a debt-financed check to the member states for €672.5 billion, the upfront reward for reforms that the european semester, illegal debt-sharing, unconstitutional ecb bond purchases, zero interest rates and empty gestures of the commission have so far failed to force or encourage, reforms that ten years of experience teach us that will never come. why would you do that? because the eu missed the outbreak of the crisis, this house would rather debate the third gender, human rights in borneo, climate change or interference with freedom of expression, than closing borders, competitiveness or selective protection for those most at risk of covid as an alternative to lockdowns and ordering too little vaccine from the leyens commission and, in the midst of the crisis, rather invent new african strategies and safe entry routes for more coronavirus-infected migrants. lack of vaccine is causing death rates and debt to rise while the economy shrinks. the technical assistance instrument is here: the eu is now expected to help countries to develop and implement record levels of spending. another €864 million for more bureaucracy and external consultants because member states lack the expertise for lack of reforms despite ten years of reform promises. the eu is becoming more and more like an anti-authoritarian kindergarten for difficult children who are rewarded before they improve. nextgenerationeu is on the fastest path to secular stagnation secular not for secular, but for the long term and for all time.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission expresses its gratitude to parliament and the committee on international trade (inta) and its chair, rapporteur ms marie—pierre vedrenne and all shadow rapporteurs for the constructive work and attention that went into this file and for the commitment shown to a swift adoption. the commission regards this amendment as both important and necessary. given today’s realities, there are two reasons for this. first, since december 2019 we no longer have an impartial and binding two—step adjudication mechanism within the wto. this is of major concern for the european union’s economic interests. to recall, this happened because of the appellate body of the wto; the second tier of adjudication is unable to function due to the blockage of appointments by certain wto members. as you know, the commission is sparing no effort in resolving the crisis. we have improved the situation in geneva through the multi-party interim appeal arrangement, or mpia for short, but it will not apply in all cases. the mpia does not engage the entirety of the wto membership, far from it, and it is voluntary. in other words, wto members need to agree to its use in their cases with the eu. therefore, as you have recognised, it is wrong to think that the danger arising from the breakdown of the wto dispute settlement has passed. this underlines the importance of the legislative file you are voting on tomorrow. next to our ongoing efforts to resolve the crisis, the amended enforcement regulation would enable the union to protect its interests in the face of blocked dispute settlement systems. the union would be able to take measures where it prevails in an offensive dispute against another country at the panel stage, but it’s unable to obtain a binding award because the other country blocks the process. thus, the revised enforcement regulation will act as a line of defence, while at the same time it would act as a deterrent and an incentive for others to cooperate. similarly, under the eu’s free trade agreements, there is no guarantee that a contracting partner will, in all cases, allow the proper functioning of dispute settlement. in the bilateral context, dispute settlement requires a certain degree of cooperation. the amendment would play a particularly important deterrence role for parties that might otherwise contemplate obstructing the proper functioning of dispute settlement. by concluding this file, we send a powerful signal to our trade partners. the union is able to equip itself quickly and is ready to protect its rights, if a need arises. this is very important for the credibility of the union’s enforcement action and for its timeliness, which is ultimately what our stakeholders will judge us on. second, the importance of the amendment also lays in the broadening of possible remedies to cover trade in services and some trade—related aspects of intellectual property rights. the extension will allow the union to make use of these additional possibilities whenever it is necessary for the effectiveness of the enforcement action or because the rules require it. the extension of scope results from a proposal advanced by parliament. the commission welcomes this improvement. the extension unquestionably renders the union’s enforcement action more effective and in line with today’s realities. it corresponds to the needs of modern and knowledge—based economies. it matches the prominence of services and intellectual property rights in international trade agreements. it makes the union credible when it seeks to negotiate protection for the right holders abroad. it means the union is serious about its agreements and obligation and will expect that partner countries stick to their commitments. and finally, broadening the scope increases the deterrence effect. even though the extension is only partial in the field of trade—related aspects of intellectual property rights, we should not lose sight of the immense benefits of the extension in its current form. the union is clearly better equipped than ever. i look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. "power comes from the barrel of a gun". that's a saying from the great chairman mao, and thank god we're ahead. our companies, which generate wealth, which create jobs, depend on foreign trade. foreign trade creates wealth. without the division of labour, without trade in raw materials and the provision of services worldwide, all that we take for granted is not possible. we need rules that are respected, and these rules must apply equally to everyone - to the medium-sized company as well as to the large one. and power must come from the rule of law, not the barrel of a gun. it must follow the performance and the contracts agreed. and that is why we have a motion which we can all support in this house, from the far left to the far right - with the interesting and regrettable exception of the greens. we want to ensure that our companies, as a peaceful trading nation in europe, as a peaceful trading bloc, can participate in the creation of wealth, and we want to grant the same rights to those of other trading blocs. we therefore support this proposal and hope that as many colleagues as possible will join us so that our companies have legal certainty when they do what they are supposed to do, which is to maximise their profits for the benefit of all those involved, the shareholders, the employees and the community as well.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs marie-pierre vedrenne, on her intensive work and good cooperation. we need this new instrument as the eu because we need to be able to defend ourselves when other partners do not respect international rules and refuse to cooperate in dispute settlement. the greens/efa group will therefore support this result. you know that we had considerable reservations about the position originally adopted in this house, but a good compromise was found in the trilogue. the work on better instruments for defending european values and interests against unfair trade practices does not stop there. i look forward to working to make sustainability chapters in our trade agreements effectively enforceable, or to the commission's proposals against wto-unlawful subsidies. i am also glad that the new biden administration can find a solution to revitalize the appellate body for dispute settlement procedures within the world trade organization.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already done so. donald trump has taught us that the european union must be able to defend itself when trade partners do not follow the rules agreed. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, marie-pierre vedrenne, on her work. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. please use it as a scalpel, not a sieve in the rules-based multilateral trading world to be built. i have been campaigning in the negotiations for the commission to now also take into account and, if necessary, enforce compliance with agreements on working conditions and rights and, finally, protection of the climate and the environment. it is now up to the first trade commissioner, mr denis redonnet, to actually investigate complaints. stop cases of social and environmental dumping! another lesson: at our best, we have enforceable instruments in trade agreements themselves, including in sustainability chapters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the endless saga of american tariffs, first on steel and then on food, has shown us clearly how vulnerable we are to commercial blackmail, and this is absolutely unacceptable for our citizens and for our businesses. the regulation we are about to adopt will remedy this situation and will finally allow europe to impose duties and sanctions against those who illegally penalize our exports. what we are about to vote on is a veritable bazooka, which will allow us to respond with a blow to anyone who behaves badly towards us but above all it will be a deterrent for all those countries which think they can harm our enterprises and our excellence with impunity. in the past european exports have been hit several times below the belt, but we will not allow that to happen again.
mr president, with the amended enforcement regulation we are making sure that the eu can no longer be taken hostage through a deliberate obstruction of our legal avenues to resolve a trade dispute. alongside the upcoming anti—coercion instrument, it should serve as a deterrent to those who would consider copying trump—era tactics to run a process of reform into the ground. in this the eu will always observe the fullest respect for international law. by no means have we abandoned the track of reforming the wto to return to a functioning appellate body. the day after tomorrow, the day after we vote this amended regulation, a new us president takes office. together we can find solutions to bridge our differences and together we can bring the wto back to speed. pour terminer, permettez-moi, monsieur le président, de remercier également marie-pierre vedrenne pour son travail de qualité et pour sa ténacité lors des négociations.
president and commissioner, colleagues, by refusing to appoint new judges to the world trade organization in 2019, donald trump has sidelined the highest arbiter in international trade disputes. and that was a huge problem because when states can no longer appeal when international trade agreements are not respected, we are going back to a time when only the strongest have the right. without rules, europe is more vulnerable to dumping from the us, from china, and from other countries, and our companies face unfair competition from products that do not meet our social and environmental standards. if we do not put a dam in place, jobs in the entire dutch economy will be at risk. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commission, because i can only applaud the fact that europe is now willing to change the rules and that europe is finding a way to protect its trade interests without the paralysed wto's appellate body.
mr president, commissioner, and mrs vedrenne, i have heard your enthusiasm. i think it's best to say, better late than never. it took until mr trump blocked the wto's appellate body for europe to decide to act. that's better, but it still took a while. we are taking the necessary steps now, this is just the beginning, we will be able to respond more quickly to tariff or quota aggression without waiting for the long dispute settlement procedure at the wto to be put in place. and i support the wish of the committee on international trade to include services and the protection of intellectual property in the new regulation, which, as you know, is being constantly flouted. but i do note a slight contradiction: you say that europe will protect more and at the same time we are signing an investment agreement with china. it is well known that china does not respect the rules of the wto, nor does it respect human rights. i note a slight contradiction and i think we must break with this systematic distortion between deeds and words.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what a special day in the european parliament! twenty years ago the greens - or those who would be on the left today - fought the world trade organization. and today we are all fighting together - after mr bütikofer has now said that the greens will also vote in favour - so that in future we can enforce the rules of the wto's multilateral world trade, even if others abandon us. i hope you have learned from this and i hope that you will continue to fight for multilateral trade and trade agreements with us, even if we have not been able to convince you of this. it has already been mentioned that we may have a new chance for a new trade agreement with the new administration in the united states. the greens in germany - at least that's what i hear cem özdemir saying - and the bundestag members are in favour. let's get on the road. the opportunity for europeans in this century is to make the world a much better place through multilateral trade agreements. but we need the greens on board for this - please continue in the future.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the eu global strategy for covid-19 vaccination (2021/2500 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in any of the debates of this session. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
i have to say, madam president, the debate here or the events surrounding the eu's vaccination strategy show once again what european citizens can expect when the eu does something like this, namely, lack of transparency, lies and, above all, no democratic voice. of the five or six contracts with pharmaceutical companies, one was visible. this contract was 70 pages long, you had 55 minutes to write it, you couldn't take notes, and even if you had memorized the things, we're not allowed to discuss them here because of the confidentiality requirement. all the important matters were also blacked out, namely all the important questions about liability, prices and delivery dates. so we have no idea what the eu has negotiated here. that is why this debate is completely pointless. it shows that when the eu is negotiating, the members of parliament have no insight at all and therefore cannot reasonably debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. vaccine nationalism is poison for the fight against corona. that is why we are also irritated by the mood-setting in the german primary campaign. we greens are in favour of a joint procurement of vaccines. we are pleased that european companies are succeeding in developing vaccines. instead of lockdown and secrecy, transparency and global access are the answer to covid. if we're going to increase vaccination coverage and put a stop to conspiracy theories, we need to get all the information out there. i have seen the curevac contract in brussels last week and i have some questions. why do you blacken key passages on liability or logistics? when do we get access to the other contracts? or is it being denied access by biontech and others? what specific delivery dates have been agreed with the respective manufacturers? we members have the right and the duty to control the use of public money. don't stop us from doing this!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. with the development of not just one but several effective and safe vaccines in record time, the value of science should now have been made clear to the last one. our scientists have done an outstanding job. but this has only been possible thanks to the massive commitment of the public authorities. but the same science also warns: more than 800,000 potentially dangerous viruses circulate in mammals and birds worldwide. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the coronavirus pandemic has caused economic damage in the trillions, according to conservative estimates, but preventing it would cost only a fraction of that. we know what needs to be done: the same human activities that are accelerating the climate crisis and species extinction - deforestation, ecosystem destruction, industrial agriculture - are also pandemic drivers. let's take covid-19 as a reminder and do it better!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have here a report which covers a great deal - almost everything - all the means of transport, including the magnetic levitation train, which will not exist, all the objectives, including energy efficiency. we take note of this because we too are in favour of extending the transfrontier european transport networks. but good words and good plans are of no use when we are already 11 years behind on all our plans and when even the normal planning and implementation times are beyond what is acceptable. from my home town of dresden to prague, we are planning a new railway line. we've been planning it for 20 years. now we're in the planning stage, and it looks like, if all goes well, the first train will run in 2045 without the 11 years of surcharge. in that respect, yes, it's all included. but it is time to set priorities, particularly in terms of implementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, those who are in the chamber at least. the same procedure as every year. when winter comes, we will be debating the humanitarian situation at the eu's external borders. it's like this every year. when it gets winter, there's very little to notice about global warming, despite all the predictions made by greta thunberg. it is cold in winter, and it is cold in the camps at the eu's external borders, or even inside the eu, in greece, bosnia or croatia. and every year we also see that we are talking about refugees and humanitarian crises. they are not refugees, they are mostly -- nicolas bay just said it -- migrants, economic refugees. and that's why it's hard to talk about a humanitarian crisis, because these people have brought themselves into this very situation. in this respect, it is a self-inflicted hardship, and therefore we should speak more of blackmail. because every winter, the same blackmail goes down. the so-called humanitarian crisis is an attempt to get european countries to open their borders and take in these people. this is wrong. the reason for the inclusion of the left-wing parties is always the values of the eu, the christian values and charity. these are the same parties that, when it comes to persecuting christians, never raise their voices and do not even allow a christmas crib in parliament. these people then speak of christian neighbor love. they are hypocrites and liars, and this debate is hypocritical and lying.
madam president, lipa camp is the new moria. it’s hell on earth, and it’s a scandal that the bira camp lies empty only 20 kilometres away, as you correctly stated, ms johansson. this has to change immediately. for me it’s clear that the way the bosnian authorities are handling the situation is unfit for the european union, but we have problems inside the eu as well. there are reports of more than 15 000 pushbacks by croatian authorities. this, dear colleagues, is a systematic pattern. commissioner, it’s nice to send a mission to a border crossing, but honestly if you want to uphold fundamental rights within the european union, we need an independent border monitoring mechanism, because i do not trust the croatian border police.
i have to say, madam president, i remember standing here exactly one year ago discussing the same subject. i watched the debate again yesterday. we should be ashamed to have to make exactly the same speeches we made a year ago, all of us together - council, commission, parliament - again. we can then say: this is not the fourth winter, but the fifth in a row that these children have to live in unheated tents. we can also say that moria has been burned down, that the people in bosnia-herzegovina are suffering now and it is true, but it is actually too little. so we're talking about bosnia and herzegovina today, and yes, the situation there is shameful. people are suffering, minimum standards are not being met, the press is not allowed access, aid organisations are prevented from helping, and that's bad. but unfortunately, this is exactly the situation we have in the european union. bosnia and herzegovina is actually the european union in a test tube. the individual parts do not want to take responsibility, the central government does not have enough power, people are being moved, no one wants them properly, reception capacities are not being used. so i think pointing one finger at bosnia-herzegovina while the other hand is hitting people a few kilometres away at the croatian border is not going to work. if we want to respect the law, we have to enforce it. that is what i expect from the commission. if parliament does not take this seriously, then it must also set up a committee of inquiry to investigate these incidents.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, aleksei navalny is being punished for doing nothing wrong. he is being punished for daring: for daring to survive, for daring to return, for daring to continue fighting. he is being punished for having no fear. we have long forgotten how it is to see people who have no fear. people who are ready to fight, who are ready to go to prison, and yes, who are ready to die for democracy. now we see those people – in belarus, in turkey and now we see them also in russia and have been seeing them for many years. some of the names were already mentioned, and navalny is one of them. one of the people whose term and characterisation we forgot to pronounce, one of the heroes – and that’s him, and that’s his family, and that’s his wife, yulia, who is always on his side. it’s important that we mention that. that we see the human story behind this political story. but navalny didn’t return for a human story, he returned for political work, and it is our responsibility to make sure that his political work, and the work of his party, of his foundations, of many other opposition parties in the country where he returned, is possible, and we have to call on putin to allow free space for the upcoming elections – as free as possible under russian circumstances. it is important that we also pronounce our responsibility and the responsibility of our governments, just like my national government, the government of germany, and the government of our federal lands, like the government of mecklenburg-vorpommern, and the responsibility of the prime minister of mecklenburg-vorpommern, who is defending, and continues to defend, a project that undermines democracy and solidarity with russian society, with ukrainian society, with polish society and many others. manuela schwesig, you have to think about your shameful decisions. let’s stop nord stream 2. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, high representative, colleagues, aleksei navalny was now arrested because he dared to be in a coma after being poisoned by putin’s fsb criminals. the only thing outdoing the kremlin’s bottomless cynicism is their own horrifying cruelty. occupying and annexing sovereign countries, displacing millions, poisoning and murdering political opponents in russia and on the territory of the eu, abducting, torturing and killing journalist and minorities – and those are only a few of many crimes that putin’s regime is built on. what does the eu do? we always react to individual incidents instead of proactively finding a consistent approach. we extend our occasional concerns and hope to go back to business as usual as soon as possible. this has to end. the kremlin needs to learn that their crimes come with a very high price. i demand: nord stream must be scrapped immediately, heavier individual plus sectoral sanctions have to be introduced and more support should be offered to the liberal opposition.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. the esdp report, like your speech, is in line with the widespread logic of militarization and armament. but it should be clear to all of us: when conflicts escalate, de-escalation must be the first order of business. as social unrest grows, investment must be made in social, health and education rather than in armaments. with permanent structural cooperation, military mobility, edf and co., the eu is shoving money down the throats of the defence industry. it is designed to create a faster, bigger and smarter war machine. but for what? is this the way to defend peace? is this security policy? i'm not going to. ladies and gentlemen, artificial intelligence in the military sector in particular is a fire hazard. the danger of war is heightened and international law is disregarded. killer drones and the like, which turn weddings into a bloodbath or increase the readiness for war, as recently in nagorno-karabakh, are not progress, but a step backwards. so instead of putting the interests of the eu's great powers first, or talking about hard power, let us work together and fight together for de-escalation, diplomacy, disarmament, and for a ban on killer robots and the like, and for a ban on nuclear weapons.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, let me commend the good work done by my colleague david mcallister in preparing the cfsp report. it is very detailed, it gives a lot of food for thought and it shows very clearly where mr mcallister wants the european union to be in terms of the direction of its foreign policy in the future. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i still believe that the nation-state is paramount. the commitment to a global eu strategy, including militarisation, embodied in the report is therefore a step too far for me. the strategic compass, which the report also refers to, sounds harmless at first, but it is dangerously close to an eu military doctrine and is comparable to the strategic concept of nato. the increasingly rapid efforts to deepen eu-wide cooperation on defence matters and the progressive definition and formulation of a common defence policy are, in my view, at least worrying. i also think that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the directive on the protection of the environment. and this is a key question. the european union has no moral or political right to send people to war, and that is the real point. it is naive to assume that all member states pursue the same foreign policy objectives, and we have seen over the past year that our citizens expect protection from their state rather than from the european commission in times of crisis.
madam president, the discussion on the eu’s strategic autonomy gained quite some momentum last year, but sadly it was often those putting forward the term and the concept who were actually undermining the eu’s ability to act as a global player. how can we have an eu-led mission and a berlin peace process for libya while france continues unilaterally to support haftar? how can the eu put pressure on egypt for its human rights record, also against giulio regeni, when italy sends more weapons than ever to el-sisi? and how can the council sanction turkish officials for the escalation in the mediterranean when germany continues to send submarines to erdoğan that may be turned against greece? member states undermining european efforts by egoistic national deals and policies: that’s our biggest problem and that’s what needs to stop. so, from now on, i really want to see every head of state who uses the term ‘strategic autonomy’ to clearly outline in which areas they are actually willing to delegate national sovereignty to european level; what they are doing to strengthen european capabilities to act; and what role they see for the european parliament in all of this. because what we need is the ability of the european union to protect peace and human rights – at best with its partners, independently where necessary. but what we don’t need is another round of fuzzy concepts and inconsistent action by member states. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. "democracy is the necessity of having to be governed by the opinion of other people on occasion", said winston churchill. it's just that what happened in the united states in 2016 is that those who you normally don't listen to organized a majority. that is not what has destroyed democracy. in 2020, more people went to the polls than ever before, and even the defeated donald trump got more votes than barack obama in his election and reelection. we should be willing to accept that there are people who disagree, and instead of being happy that they've finally been gotten rid of, ask the question of how to engage them. the storming of the capitol was, without question, a crime, and it's a warning to all of us. but shutting down a twitter account with 80 million followers is a bigger attack on democracy and free speech. i can only ask the victors to be humble and reasonable in the moment of victory and not triumph.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say, madam president, the eu's migration pact is a key part of your presidency and is intended to replace the dublin system. but dublin is not the problem. because what has happened since 2015 is wrong according to dublin. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the question of the right of asylum. this requires a new eu treaty under article 48 (2) teu, not a simple majority, all the more so as the pact accelerates admissions and does not deport, but together with ngos opens up new access routes and increases reception capacities. this pro-migration pact is normalizing migration. come to your senses. another three million migrants that the eu is taking in are tearing apart our welfare state, and africa is producing three million people every three weeks.
madam president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you for sharing. the potential of artificial intelligence is so great that we can hardly imagine it today. but for the prospects of tomorrow, we need to create a framework now for how we live, how we operate and what place the eu will have in a digitalised world. prime minister costa, i expect three things from your presidency: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital single market. we can only raise the bar together, we can only set global standards together, civil rights are non-negotiable. the protection of fundamental rights must be guaranteed at european level. no mass surveillance by automatic facial recognition and no overblocking by upload filters! promoting innovation rather than hindering it! any kind of regulation must be unbureaucratic and open to technology, and i expect you to prevent national monopolies, to go ahead, to create a european framework for artificial intelligence and digital services, for progress and innovation 'made in europe'. good luck with that.
i have to say, madam president, the eu has failed with corona medically and economically. we have record high rates of deforestation and, with the uk, the worst economic data in the world. china, on the other hand, is growing and exporting at record rates. the commission is still ordering too little vaccine, and so more citizens and businesses are dying unnecessarily here than in russia, china or albania. to cover up the failure, von der leyen is planning to spend a record $1.8 trillion. for this purpose, it borrows 750 billion unlawfully, because article 310 tfeu requires: the eu budget is to be balanced in revenue and expenditure, and 311 adds: the eu budget is financed entirely from own resources, without prejudice to other revenue. but the illegal debts are not recorded anywhere. certainly the money is for the green deal and the eu migration pact, even though the eu only generates 9% of all co2 emissions and millions of migrants are destroying our welfare state without developing africa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you have visions like that, you should see a doctor.
madam president, we fought hard as the european parliament, but also as the eu as a whole, for a strong eu recovery fund to counter this unprecedented crisis. we decided to raise an unprecedented amount of eur 750 billion to be able to invest in the green and also the digital recovery and to get out of this crisis better than we went in. now it’s time to fight equally hard to make sure that this money is put to good use, and for this i demand three things. first of all, that we ensure that every cent that is spent is transparently spent, that we know where this money is going. second, that this money is used as additional money, that we make sure that we have new projects in the green and digital spaces, so we don’t just refinance existing pet projects of national governments. and third, that citizens are involved, that stakeholders are involved, and that most importantly our national governments are involved when we draw up these plans to make sure that the money is put to good use.
in writing. officially, the funds of the created reconstruction fund, 750 billion euros, are used to reduce the economic and social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. in reality, however, they are a means of achieving the objectives of the green deal and represent an important step towards the completion of a debt and transfer union. this is a fraudulent labelling scheme. of course, after the bad british leave, there is much less money to spend, but still, you don't want to cut back. spending more and more money is the message. that is why new funds are being provided by a new budget. the german chancellor has always assured the germans that there would never be a common debt. now there is indeed a common debt and there is no going back. the fact that the eu is taking on debt when it has no sovereignty and no budget, that the money is being distributed without parliamentary approval and without the eu's budgetary authority, is a violation of democracy and the rule of law. the end result is that in this transfer union, 40% of the eu population co-finances the other 60%.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the coronavirus let the poorest suffer the hardest : the homeless, roma, children living in low-economic-resource households, more often women than men, persons at risk. the list is long. i’m worried that if help for the poorest is not immediately provided the consequences will be severe. as greens/efa shadow of the fead proposal i’m therefore happy to see that this afternoon we will vote on a file that includes the need of a social sustainable and resilient recovery and stresses the feminisation of poverty. but not only that. we greens also welcome that the proposal boosts funding by pre-financing and by inviting the member states to boost the fund. fead is an instrument that reaches out to the most deprived with very direct support that makes a real difference on the ground. so for this afternoon i urge you all to vote for funds, for basic food, basic material, and special social inclusion measures. let’s vote in favour of fead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we're talking today about access to adequate and affordable housing for all. this is a very important issue, because in recent years rent has exploded, and unfortunately 700 000 people are now living on the streets in the eu, they are homeless. but what solutions are proposed here in the report? the first thing we want to do is to implement the green deal. many apartments are to be renovated for energy purposes. but energy-efficient homes are not necessarily affordable. as an example, i would like to give you an example from germany: the city of kiel has extensively renovated the district of gaarden. until a few years ago, this area was mainly inhabited by low-income earners, welfare recipients and migrants. after this fancy renovation, these very people were forced into barracks, or they were even forced into homelessness, and new residents came. green voters in particular who can afford this fancy environment. green policy is a policy of social coldness, of freezing coldness, and we must not allow that to happen. we need real social policy for real people!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. no employee is required to be available to his employer 24 hours a day. it's perfectly normal. the world of work has changed completely in recent years. the assembly line worker who stands on the assembly line for eight hours is practically gone. we're talking about flexible working today, we're talking about trusted working, we're talking about home office now, a lot. and all of these things bring flexibility, flexibility that also brings freedom, and that's a good thing. of course, we also need regulations. finding them is gonna be tough. i do not understand why this parliament feels called upon to find these regulations. it is not the task of this parliament at all. this problem must be solved at national level, because the labour markets in the eu are completely different, and the rules of the game are completely different. the problem must therefore be solved at national level by the social partners and, of course, by the collective bargaining partners.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, we are not robots. and that's why this report, the right to shut down, is such an important policy initiative, especially in these times of pandemic. millions of people have been sent to the home office, and many are experiencing what it's like to have work and life mixed together, with burnout, stress and even guilt as a result. while most employees will return to their offices afterwards, one thing is clear: the way we work has changed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is reminiscent of the dispute over the working time directive. it is really important that employees are given binding powers, that they can pull the plug and turn off their work phones and computers outside working hours. the commission should therefore not be swayed by this lobbying. i call on everyone in the house to support the report. europe's workers rightly expect their health to be protected time to act!
mr president, ms zakarias, the european public prosecutor (eppo) is supposed to be a leap forward in the fight against corruption and fraud, but council seems to be working against the success of eppo. you do not want to provide adequate funding for eppo; two member states still refuse to appoint full—time prosecutors, and three governments have now heavily interfered with the selection process. belgium, bulgaria and your own government have chosen to ignore the ranking by the independent experts. belgium rather wanted the guy that used to work in the cabinet of the minister that nominated him. your portuguese government provided false information to the other member states – and i thought we were going to select the best guy for the job. i honestly don’t understand why the other governments in council tolerate this, and if member states are not able or willing to check the dubious personnel choices of their fellow governments, then i think council is not the suitable institution to make these choices, because we need a fully—functioning, well—staffed eppo to start its work. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, we already had gender and the war in syria in this house last year. we had gender and climate. we had gender and digitization, of course. now we have gender and covid. i am frankly surprised that the intellectual flyer in the room, mrs noichl, has not yet thought of including gender and the earthquake in croatia on the agenda. but we have never had the subject of gender and scientific research or gender and common sense in this house. gender is an ideological fake, just like gender and covid is an ideological fake. we heard from mrs. fitzgerald that men are the most affected, because they die most from covid. and in that sense, this whole debate is bullshit. we are all for equality. we are not in favour of equality beyond the standards of quality, of differentiation, and therefore equality is nothing but discrimination against men. and we are against it. we are for equality, but against equality. i know that there are special rights for women and that you are particularly interested in them. but if you have five minutes, i would appreciate it if you would limit your time to five minutes and not go overboard, especially since you have little to contribute to this debate in terms of content.
i have to say, madam president, the coronavirus pandemic is hitting people hard in europe right now, but it's hitting women especially hard. covid-19 is deepening inequalities. the main burden of caring for children and the elderly is borne by women. and that's even more true now than it was before. women earn less, they can put less aside for social security, and they are at higher risk of poverty. millions of jobs are being lost in the economic crisis. and yes, we need action in europe to make the economy resilient, competitive and sustainable. but these measures must ensure that women are given equal economic opportunities. if we are going to boost the economy now, it is women who must benefit. we need gender budgeting. no more gender pay gap and no more pay transparency! we have a green deal now, but what we also need is a care deal for europe. it's timely. because the future of europe is female.
in writing. – this report seeks to highlight the idea that the small percentage of women involved in ict / stem is primarily due to ‘gender stereotypes’. this reasoning is missing two crucial elements: choice: graphs and figures, don’t tell a person’s full story. if lack of self-confidence may play a part in the professional path taken by women, we can’t overlook the fact that education and career are first of all the result of a personal choice, based upon preferences and competences. forcing women to engage in career paths that they might not feel particularly interested in is counterproductive and anti-democratic. in addition, it is in contradiction with article 15 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, which enshrines the freedom to choose an occupation and right to engage in work. focus on sexual harassment: though cyber violence is addressed in articles 28 through 31 of the report, it is overrun by ideology. the portion of articles suggests to combat cyber violence through ‘comprehensive sexual and relationship education’. this is yet again a way of pushing for more ‘gender ideology’ under the guise of protecting women, and ultimately putting the needs of the digital labour market above women’s choice of career.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, we parliamentarians have been very vocal. we support the people of hong kong fearlessly standing up for their democracy. the democracy that is being cracked down on by china day by day, with the utmost disrespect for the struggle for freedom, by breaking international law. it’s time that the commission and the member states acted. it’s time you turned words into action. so, here’s a reminder: work with the us towards defending liberal democracy against a systemic rival. use the human rights mechanism to sanction responsible individuals in china and their accomplices in hong kong. insist that civil and political rights are restored. the democratic opposition must be freed and allowed to run in the next elections. brave people of hong kong, the european parliament will keep fighting for you with the tools of democracy that you are deprived of. freedom will prevail. we stand by your side.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, this house has a habit of debating matters in faraway places of which we know little and about which we can do nothing. human rights in hong kong is such a topic and for once, you’re right. the situation does raise concerns. yet as we speak, the eu is concluding a new investment treaty with china, and germany depends on exports to china to bankroll the euro area. the eu cannot even afford imposing sanctions on china. so why are we discussing human rights in hong kong at all? the eu is censoring free speech and social media are silencing dissent. some member states are imprisoning their own citizens for holding referenda. others don’t allow referenda at all, and in germany the biggest opposition party is placed under surveillance for opposing immigration in a year of major elections, and in germany too, a law is passed to punish vilification of the eu’s flag and symbols, with three years in prison. countries used to start wars to overcome internal strife and dissent. today, the west finds fault with the rest to exert soft power, yet western liberal democracy is no longer liberal and long ceased to be democratic. the west is trying to pull a trick that’s no longer working.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the day before yesterday, i gave a speech on alexei navalny at this very spot. i mentioned back then that we talk too little about the heroes of democracy and political prisoners. it is actually incredible to me, and until recently unimaginable, that i have to speak on this subject about a country with which we actually want and wanted to build a common european future. there are political prisoners there too. and we have to talk about this country now, just like we have to talk about other countries, including russia. it is incredible that we have to hold such a meeting on turkey. but the names speak for themselves: selahattin demirtaş, figen yuksekdağ, osman kavala, but also lesser known names like cihan erdal or a german citizen, gönül örs, and her mother, who cannot leave the country and is also threatened with prison. our green position and my personal position is clear: turkey's future is a european future and we need to normalise our relations. but this normalization starts with human rights, it starts with the rule of law, it starts with the normalization of international legal behavior. until these advances are made, we will not move forward with normalization. it's a pity, but that's the fact.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not we are not prisoners, we are hostages! the goal is to break the opposition bloc, to prevent us from coming together. the acp is fighting for its survival. in the next elections, the hdp and other opposition parties will send the akp-mhp bloc to the dustbin of history! we will build democracy, selahattin demirtaş said in the fall of 2020 from prison. yes, demirtaş and countless others are hostages. they're to be gagged. in turkey, the question is: democracy or autocracy? the eu and turkey are currently holding numerous meetings. the european union is not a party to the gatt negotiations. but it also requires transparency. so i ask, what did heiko maas discuss? what is mr borrell negotiating with mr çavuşoğlu today? will geopolitical and economic interests continue to dominate eu-turkey relations, or will the eu finally take a clear stand on the side of democracy and human rights? selahattin demirtaş, gültan kışanak, osman kavala and many, many other political prisoners must finally be released!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. again and again, erdogan is a topic here in parliament. today we are again denouncing the flagrant violations of fundamental and human rights in turkey, denouncing the turkish despots. we've done this too many times and nothing's happened. but why wander into the distance, the evil is so close! in germany too, there are considerable democratic deficits. on the one hand, the repression of the kurdish hdp and others is denounced, and on the other hand, propaganda, the instrumentalization of the protection of the constitution and the publicly funded media are used against the afd the only opposition party in germany . the goal: to marginalize and ultimately destroy a troublesome opponent in the political game. and that is how the id group is treated here in the european parliament. we have a vice-president, a committee chairman, who are our due under the rules of procedure? i'm not sure. at the beginning of the parliamentary term all the groups in this house proudly proclaimed the cordon sanitaire instead of facing the political debate. why would you do that? because we are serving the european citizen and not the rest of the world on the basis of a confused ideology. i'm not trying to defend erdoğan. i am not interested in anything else, as my many speeches on this subject here prove. but what is being done in this house is pure hypocrisy, an open double standard. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left behind.
mr president, commissioner, like my excellent colleague maria arena, i do not want to address the totalitarian dictatorship in vietnam. i would like to address the commission, the guardian of the treaties. and what do the treaties tell us? sometimes it's good to go back to the text. article 21 of the treaty on european union is very clear. the union's action on the international stage is based on the principles which guided its creation and which it seeks to promote in the rest of the world: democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms. it adds: 'the union shall endeavour to develop relations and build partnerships with third countries which share the principles referred to in the first subparagraph. so, commissioner, make sure that these principles are applied and respected, or else, if they are not, let us add a paragraph to the treaty for the sake of intellectual honesty and say that these principles do not apply where the markets, profits and financial interests of european companies are at stake.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, we repeatedly expressed to vietnam our concerns over limitations to freedom of expression, both online and offline, as reflected in increasing cases of intimidation, arrest, detention and sentencing of journalists and human rights defenders who express their opinions. the space for dissenting voices is shrinking and the sentences of mr pham chi dung, mr nguyen tuong thuy and mr le huu minh tuan show a deterioration of the civil and political rights situation. the eu has called on the authorities to respect fundamental rights enshrined in their constitution and in international conventions to which they are party, most recently in a statement issued by the spokesperson for foreign affairs and security policy on 6 january. at the same time, we aim to constructively engage the authorities to ensure alignment with international standards, by offering assistance in implementing the recommendations which vietnam accepted under its latest universal periodic review. political and civil rights and rule of law are regularly raised at the human rights dialogue with vietnam. during the last session in february 2020 the eu reiterated its request for all vietnamese citizens detained for exercising their freedom of opinion and expression to be released. the eu also referred to a number of individual cases and stressed that the negative trend of limiting freedom of expression must be reversed, especially when vietnam and the eu are engaged in closer partnership. additionally, the eu has supported projects by, and with, civil society organisations, enhancing citizens’ engagement in policy advocacy and promoting human rights. reform and modernisation allowed vietnam to make continuous progress in economic and social rights, steadily opening up to international standards. the eu has supported vietnam in moving from limited regional economic integration to broader international integration, including international standards. this includes ongoing reforms in the area of labour rights. against this background, we will continue to reiterate at every occasion that citizens’ opinions expressed peacefully are a critical part of prosperous societies and are essential for sustainable development. we will continue to work together with vietnam to achieve a more inclusive society and be very clear about our expectations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the second round of voting today is now under way. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 1.45 to 3.00 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare today's second round of voting open. you can vote until 3:00. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.46 p.m.)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 21 january 2021.
the agenda includes the report by mr sven simon, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report 2020 of the european central bank (2020/2123(ini) (a9-0002/2021). president christine lagarde is here, and i thank her for being with us in the plenary. i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. as in previous sessions, the parliament's liaison offices in the member states will also be responsible for remote assistance. i now give the floor to rapporteur sven simon for his speech. i also thank commissioner dombrovskis for being here with us.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the european central bank has been a major player in the development of the euro. the independence of central banks was granted to ensure price stability free from political influence. it's worked. the european central bank is also an independent central bank. of course, she is bound by her mandate. she's not moving in a law-free space. your actions may be reviewed by a court. but it is largely removed from the democratic discourse because the party political ideas should not be decisive for its policy, but its mandate. it is nevertheless responsible to the european parliament. it is therefore good that we can have this debate today in the presence of president lagarde of the ecb. let me take three themes from the report: firstly, low interest rates and inflation, secondly, bond-buying programmes and thirdly, the role of the european central bank in climate policy. the low interest rate policy is a global phenomenon. the ecb cannot and must not look at regional effects, for example on property prices in conurbations. but we welcome the fact that it wants to revise the inflation calculation to better reflect the real cost of living in the shopping basket in the future. the debt purchase programmes: the pepp has enabled the european central bank to ensure that, unlike in the 2009 financial crisis, no member state is cut off from financial markets during this pandemic. this is a success of the european central bank. monetary policy alone will not be enough to ensure a sustained economic recovery. this requires structural reforms in the member states, some of which rely too heavily on the expansionary monetary policy of the european central bank. the pspp has been the subject of disputes before the german federal constitutional court and the ecj. ladies and gentlemen, if the european court of justice had been half as constructive in implementing this judgment as the european central bank, we would have been spared much debate in europe. the ecb itself has provided evidence that a competence-based assessment of the proportionality of monetary and economic policies is possible and, in the view of the european central bank, has been carried out. it is in this context that i consider your clarification, madam president, of the role of the european central bank in climate policy to be extremely important. in your speech on 25 january you said, and i quote in the original language, in english: you spoke about climate change and central banking in frankfurt and said, i quote, "clearly, central banks are not the main actors when it comes to preventing global warming. central banks are not responsible for climate policy and the most important tools that are needed lie outside of our [i.e. your, the ecb's] mandate. but the fact that we are not in the driving seat does not mean that we can simply ignore climate change, or that we do not play a role in combating it. some colleagues in this house would like to see the central bank as a piggy bank for their political priorities. some colleagues expect central banks to act as a rapid response unit for every economic crisis, keep sovereign financing costs low or provide savers with adequate interest rates. recently, another item has been added to the wish list of the left: the ecb is being called upon to assume an active role in climate policy. but you are absolutely right, madam president, when you say, and i quote again, "most measures to tackle climate change lie outside the remit of central banks, but of course will have important implications for central bank balance sheets and policy objectives". this is exactly the difference between what is within the mandate and what the left would like to have within the mandate. impacts of climate change and policy transition have consequences for the primary objective of price stability. nevertheless, the european central bank must not become an investment bank for climate protection. that would contradict the primary mandate of price stability. it would be illegal, despite whatever amendments the greens propose here today. madame la présidente, it has been an extraordinary pleasure to work with you. i hope we can meet again soon in frankfurt, without the covid-19 restrictions. it has always been a great pleasure to exchange ideas with you. i thank you and your team, particularly mr straub, for your cooperation in the preparation of this report. i have learned a lot about the ecb's policies.
president of the european central bank. – monsieur le président du parlement européen, monsieur le vice-président exécutive de la commission européenne, monsieur le rapporteur, honourable members of the european parliament, i am delighted to join you today on the occasion of this plenary debate on your draft resolution on the ecb annual report. i have to admit that, in spite of the circumstances being so different from a year ago, we are still here today, and it is a pleasure. turning to the circumstances, clearly the pandemic has confronted us with a serious health and economic crisis, and yes, the start of vaccinations provides hope. but citizens across europe are still facing the dire social and economic consequences of the virus, and prospects about the future remain uncertain. in these circumstances, a close dialogue between the eu institutions is essential for charting a clear way forward and reaching a common european response to common challenges. this parliament has ensured that the views of european citizens are heard and acted upon as the eu is tackling the crisis. parliamentary resolutions like the one we are debating today represent an important occasion for us at the ecb to reflect on how we can best deliver on our mandate for the benefit of all europeans, and this is also the objective of our ongoing strategy review. i have repeatedly emphasised my ambition to listen more attentively to people from across the euro area, so i am very pleased to announce today to you that we will publish the key findings from our ‘ecb listens’ portal. this will be published today, and on this occasion i would like to thank the 4 000 europeans who responded to our consultation and shared their concerns about inflation developments, about the current economic crisis and about the impact of climate change, as those were the key topics that they commented on. together – all together, including you, mr vice-president valdis dombrovskis – i would like to start by just looking back at the unprecedented economic crisis that europe experienced last year and how the ecb responded. i will then look at the prospects for this year, before discussing a few of the policy challenges that we face in ensuring a strong recovery from the pandemic and how to manage the transition to a greener and more digital economy. so let me start with the year behind us and how i believe we responded forcefully to an unprecedented crisis. i don’t know how 2020 will be remembered by each and every one of you, but i think collectively we will remember 2020 as the year of the pandemic that led to an unprecedented economic contraction. the european institutions and the eu member states reacted swiftly, creatively and resolutely, and the ecb, in my view, played a vital role. our monetary policy was centred on two pillars. first pillar: in march 2020 we launched the pandemic emergency purchase programme, also known as pepp, with an initial envelope of eur 750 billion. but over the course of 2020, incoming data pointed to a more pronounced impact of the pandemic on the euro area economy and a more protracted weakness in inflation than previously envisaged. so the european central bank’s governing council expanded the pepp envelope twice, first by eur 600 billion in june, and then by a further eur 500 billion in december, for a total of eur 1 850 billion. the pepp was tailored to the specific nature of the coronavirus crisis, and it serves a dual purpose. first, it can be operated as a powerful market backstop to prevent destabilising financial dynamics and breakdowns in monetary transmission. and second, it can act as an instrument that supports our monetary policy stance by smoothing out the impact of the pandemic on our price stability objective. these two engines have been activated with varying intensity over the two phases of the pandemic emergency. the backstop engine was the first one to be ignited, amidst the financial panic in the early stages of the pandemic. it helped preserve the transmission of our monetary policy to all sectors and countries in the euro area, thereby averting an even deeper economic contraction. that was the first engine. the second engine took over when markets eventually calmed, and it has been instrumental in nudging inflation closer to the path that we were projecting before the pandemic hit. that was pillar number one. pillar number two was the targeted longer-term refinancing operations, also called tltros. we have eased and adapted the terms and conditions of our tltro iii programme in order to reinforce its inbuilt incentive for banks to lend to firms and to households. this makes the tltros a powerful complement to the pepp, as they concentrate on the downstream phases of monetary policy transmission – those that work through banks and, more directly, reach the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are most reliant on bank financing. so those are the two pillars that were really active in the course of 2020 – and to good effect. let us now look at the year ahead and let’s look at what the outlook will be for our economy. as i mentioned earlier, the start of vaccination campaigns across the euro area provides the eagerly-awaited light at the end of the tunnel. at the same time, the renewed surge in covid-19 cases, the mutations of the virus and the strict containment measures are a significant downside risk to the euro area economic activity. output remains well below pre-pandemic levels and uncertainty about how the pandemic will evolve remains high. however, when containment measures are lifted and uncertainty recedes, we expect the recovery to be supported by favourable financing conditions, by expansionary fiscal policies and by a recovery in demand. despite the steep increase in january due to a confluence of factors, inflation remains low. this can be attributed to weak demand and significant slack in labour and product markets. while we expect headline inflation to increase further over the coming months, underlying price pressures are likely to remain subdued owing to weak demand, to low wage pressures and the appreciation of the euro exchange rate. in this environment that i have just described, an accommodative monetary policy stance remains essential. it ensures that financing conditions remain favourable to put the economic recovery on a self-sustaining trajectory. our pledge to preserve favourable financing conditions is crucial in the current environment, as it reduces uncertainty about the terms at which the economy can access external finance. this bolsters confidence and will encourage consumer spending and business investment. a more solid recovery is a precondition for re-anchoring inflation around its pre-pandemic path. at the same time, and as i have stressed many times, including in this house, it remains crucial that monetary and fiscal policy continue to work hand in hand. fiscal policy, both at the national and at the european level, remains crucial to bolster the recovery in the euro area and address the impact of the pandemic. it can channel economic support to where it is most needed. by protecting workers and households and providing lifelines to viable firms that have been hit hard by the pandemic, fiscal support is particularly powerful in boosting aggregate demand. however, we need to remain vigilant. while fiscal support is crucial at this stage, it should be targeted and focused on the measures that are most conducive to economic growth. against this backdrop, the ground-breaking next generation eu package should be implemented in such a way that the eu and all its member states emerge from the crisis with stronger economic structures and a higher degree of cohesion. if implemented as planned, next generation eu could even boost growth as early as this year. so let’s look at a few policies. it is essential, in our view, that the next generation eu funds are disbursed quickly and used to support structural reforms and growth-enhancing investment projects. this would boost growth potential and contribute to reaching the eu’s objectives in the areas of climate change and digitalisation. we also need ambitious eu policies to make sure that bond and equity markets complement bank lending and public resources in financing a sustainable recovery. progress in the area of sustainable finance, for instance, is pivotal to accelerate the transition towards a low-carbon economy. efforts to deepen the single market, notably its digital dimension and in the services sector, would provide additional support for the recovery. as co-legislator, the european parliament has a crucial role to play in advancing europe’s green and digital agendas. the ecb is ready to play its part on these two fronts, as you request in your resolution. as i was quoted (and as i am happy to repeat), central banks are not responsible for climate policy, and the most important tools that are needed lie outside its mandate. but the fact that we are not in the driving seat does not mean that we can simply ignore climate change. climate change has macroeconomic and financial implications and consequences for our primary objective of price stability and other areas of competence. we will contribute to fighting climate change in line with our mandate. we have already started this process and we will continue to do more. for example – and this includes most recent developments – we hold green bonds amounting to 3.5% of our own funds portfolio, and we plan to increase this share over the coming years. since the start of this 2021, bonds with coupon structures linked to certain sustainability performance targets have been eligible as collateral for eurosystem credit operations and for outright purchases for monetary policy purposes. this used not to be the case. within the eurosystem, we have also agreed on common principles for sustainable and responsible investment that we will apply when managing our euro-denominated non-monetary policy portfolios. this used not to be the case in all the euro system. we aim to start making annual climate-related disclosures for these types of portfolios within the next two years. and in the context of our strategy review, we will discuss whether sustainability considerations could be reflected in our monetary policy operations. on the digital front, the increased use of digital technologies is changing all aspects of our lives, including how we pay. this is where our preparatory work on a digital euro comes in. i am pleased that your resolution welcomes our work in this area – public support for this project is crucial. as representatives of european citizens, you have a fundamental role to play here. our public consultation launched since october, which is now completed, drew over 8 000 responses from individuals, firms and, of course, industry associations. we will present you with a comprehensive analysis of these responses in the spring. this analysis will provide important input for the governing council of the ecb when it decides whether or not to launch a digital euro project. let me conclude. if we want to pave the way for a sustainable recovery, we need to maintain and strengthen the common european approach that proved so effective last year. the ecb is committed to doing its part, within its mandate. we are equally committed to continuing and building on the close dialogue with this parliament. you are essential in our efforts to improve our communication with european citizens. this is another clear finding from the ‘ecb listens’ portal – many respondents have asked us to explain our decisions more clearly, in simple language and with more relatable, concrete examples. but communication is a two-way street, so we will continue our efforts to listen to your requests and remarks more attentively, as summarised in this resolution. as usual, we will provide our detailed feedback on the resolution together with the ecb annual report 2020. i now very much look forward to listening to your remarks and to participating in the discussion that we will have on the occasion of the final resolution on the report.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, honourable president of the european central bank, it’s a pleasure to be here today to discuss with you this very timely report. i would like to thank the rapporteur, sven simon, and the shadow rapporteurs and members of the committee for their valuable input. the commission overall agrees with the report. we in particular share the view that the ecb’s independence in conducting monetary policy is vital for safeguarding price stability. like you we are also concerned about the negative social economic impact of the pandemic. the ecb has used its monetary policy instruments successfully to mitigate those effects. we welcome the emphasis in the report on strong complementarity between fiscal and monetary policies during the crisis. favourable financing conditions have allowed fiscal impulses to be transmitted across the euro area, and at the same time national liquidity and income support measures have reduced risks of impaired monetary policy transmission. the commission has supported member states’ fiscal responses by activating the general escape clause in the stability and growth pact. it will remain active this year. we will review the situation in the spring. we aim to avoid premature withdrawal of fiscal support and plan to strike the right balance between providing the necessary support to the economy and ensuring fiscal sustainability in the medium term. as of this year, the substantial financing provided by the recovery and resilience facility will provide an additional input to our economies. only the 13% pre—financing amounts to eur 44 billion. we also need structural reforms to strengthen our growth potential and social cohesion. next generation eu will play a key role in making european economies more resilient and better prepared for the green and digital transitions. in addition, the report makes significant points on climate change. we welcome the ecb’s increasing focus on climate—related risks and the specific ways that have been identified to address them, including under its supervisory and monetary policy mandates. the steps taken by the commission and the ecb against climate change can certainly reinforce each other. i particularly welcome what christine lagarde just mentioned about the ecb investing part of its portfolio in green bonds. i note too that the ecb referred to objectives set out in the eu taxonomy regulation, in its decision to accept sustainability—linked bonds as collateral and make them potentially eligible for asset purchases. the ecb’s preparatory work on a digital euro project is also welcome. by complementing cash, the digital euro could underpin the digitalisation of the eu economy. taking their respective mandates into account, the commission and the ecb are together reviewing the broad range of policy, legal and technical questions related to the possible introduction of a digital euro. it goes without saying that the european parliament will play an important role in this process. lastly, the report touches on the issues of the euro’s international role. promoting a stronger international standing for our common currency is an important element of the commission strategy to stimulate the openness, strength and resilience of the eu’s economic and financial system. one of its objectives is to support the development of euro—denominated instruments and benchmarks. the euro is already more attractive to investors thanks to euro—denominated bonds issued under sure and next generation eu. again, i welcome your valuable input on this report and look forward to a good debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this year the european central bank is making a major breakthrough with its review of monetary policy and i am very grateful that you have taken up this subject. one aspect which is not at the disposal of this review is the primary objective - and this is a good thing - of maintaining price stability. i sometimes get the impression that this seems to be forgotten, and that is why i want to clarify it again: the primary objective of the european central bank, as stated in the treaties, is to ensure price stability. this is its honourable and paramount task. monetary policy must be used to this end. i wonder whether the target you have set for yourself for many years, namely a rate of inflation close to but just under 2%, is still the right target. after all, you have been missing this target for many years with great regularity, and inflation expectations in the eurozone - you have just said it yourself - are now anchored at a much lower level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, with demographic change, the shift to a service-based society and a global glut of savings, there are clear indications that inflation will remain low on a lasting basis. you cannot compete with the biggest buy-out programme. that is why i am asking you to examine this 2% target. and let me say one last little thing about the digital euro: i am very grateful that the ecb is finally taking up this issue. i would rather have a digital euro from the ecb than one from mark zuckerberg.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make the necessary proposals to the council and parliament. the ecb annual report remains a highly sensitive document and should be treated and edited with a scientific approach. the independence of the ecb is the pillar of our common currency in the european union. the ecb report should not become a wish concert for this house, because in the end our currency is in international competition with other currencies and also with metals. but as a monitoring body, we in the european parliament have a duty to look closely at it. i am glad that in this report we are looking at both sides of the question and what needs to be done. on the one hand, we look critically at the target page. i think that's very good and very correct. and on the other hand, something new: do we accept climate change, and does climate change eventually find its way into the ecb's mandate? what we have to be careful of is that the ecb does not become the second european investment bank. that's our job. on the other hand, i am personally pleased that 'small issues' are also included in this report, such as the preservation of cash, or that we do not reduce the exclusion of money, or that generational justice is finally found in this report. it is also important that i hope that we will not make the report worse by various motions in the plenary. i would like to conclude by saying something which is very important to me personally and which is beginning to emerge in parliament: the demand that member states have their debts cancelled by the ecb. mrs lagarde, i ask you with all your independence to ensure that member states also pay back the debts they owe to the ecb. every citizen of the european union, every citizen of the european union must do the same.
mr president, madam lagarde, this report rightly warns of real estate bubbles and target2 risks. but the criticism is sparing, great but misplaced praise. but the need is greater. the euro is a miscarriage, a minotaur, which the bundesbank satisfies with 100 billion euros of unsecured target2 credits a year and satisfies so far a total of 1.2 trillion euros. real estate becomes unaffordable, wages fall, taxes and debt rise, only the rich get richer. since 2015, the ecb has printed more money than any other central bank at any time, anywhere. but the growth is lower than almost anywhere else. since covid, the eu economy has been shrinking faster than the ecb is printing. and where does the ecb's money flood go? not in the real economy, private households or future industries, but in sterile assets for the super-rich and billionaire ventures, dream dances like the euro, climate rescue and immigration. interest is the price of time. the negative interest rate shows that europe has no future except as an oligarchy.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the european central bank must take climate risks and targets into account in its monetary policy decisions, precisely because price stability is its primary objective and climate change has a significant impact on it. we know that climate change is affecting the real economy and increasingly the balance sheets of banks on the path to a sustainable economy. we need helpful programmes from the ecb that are smart and forward-looking. and when the ecb, through its bond purchases, supports coal power plant operators, that is clearly against our paris climate goals. the ecb should also consider how we can strengthen the international role of the euro for europe's economic sovereignty and greater independence from global developments. madam lagarde, i also bet that many, many smart women like you will fill at least half of the key positions in the ecb's executive board, the eu's financial supervisory authority and the central banks as soon as possible.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, the battery on this phone is dying and although it is still working perfectly otherwise, i will have to buy a new one, with all the negative implications involved: more resources being mined, under often horrendous conditions, more co2 emissions and mountains of electronic waste piling up in the european union. this linear economy needs to change urgently and it will change if we put in place sustainability requirements that make products circular by design. the internal market and consumer protection committee voted on a strong opinion asking for exactly that: circularity by design, plus an effective right to repair, longer guarantees, available spare parts and updates and better information to consumers, with a digital product passport. these are very clear demands by parliament to make the circular economy a reality and to implement the green deal. i expect the commission to deliver this year with ambitious legislative proposals.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on international trade. the commission is not what is the future of the european economy? abstinence and degrow or progress through innovation? we are making economic growth sustainable by increasingly decoupling it from primary resource use. to do this, the eu's circular economy must first of all take three things into account: reuse and recycling must be made easier and more efficient for businesses and consumers. promoting sustainable and innovative business models that reduce our ecological footprint and create job opportunities. that is why we must also integrate the circular economy into trade agreements. this will strengthen fair competition and protect the climate and the environment together with our partners. our children should have a better life. this is what my parents wanted for me and my brother; this is what generations of parents have wanted for their children. and i want that wish to be the same tomorrow. but for the ecological and economic foundations of tomorrow to be intact, we must act wisely today. that's why the circular economy is part of our future. thank you for a good report, jan!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in germany alone, 500 million items of clothing are being thrown away to make room for the next collection. clothes that have been produced with enormous effort. why would you do that? because our economy follows a simple principle: take, make, use and throw away. a beautiful principle, if you assume that resources are infinitely available. if everyone did this as we do in europe, the annual resources available would be exhausted by mid-may. so this principle is part of the barrel. in a circular economy, we design products so that no waste or pollution is created in the first place. products must be usable for a longer period of time and must be returned to this cycle at the end of their useful life. to stay with the 500 million pieces of clothing, one sustainable collection a year doesn't save 11 months of fast fashion. it is a fundamental change, and that is what we are addressing with this action plan. thank you for the good report and back to work!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if you talk about circular economy, you have to talk about waste. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the disposal of waste. unfortunately, in many eu member states, a high percentage of this waste is still simply dumped, i.e. stored unsorted, and is stacked up further and further until st nimmerlein day. although there are already systems for separating, recycling and composting, and if recycling is not possible, waste can be recycled thermally, mechanically or biologically. we should have put a clear and definite end to landfilling as the most environmentally damaging form of waste incineration. that would have been the right signal under the green deal. this would have triggered investment now, and we would be really closer to a circularity throughout the eu. unfortunately, neither the commission nor we in parliament had the strength to send such a clear signal. i therefore urge you to keep your eyes and ears open and ask: when, mr mayor, when, madam mayor, will this landfill be closed to normal municipal waste and will it be replaced by a system of prevention and recycling?
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu, a place of prosperity, it is always said. yes, the eu is one of the richest regions in the world. incredible wealth is accumulating here. at the same time, one in five europeans, or 95 million people, is at risk of poverty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty in the community. almost 6% of the eu population is affected by extreme material poverty. the promise was to reduce the number of people living in poverty by 20 million by 2020. this eu objective has been missed. inequalities within the eu and between member states have widened. the social consequences of the coronavirus pandemic are not yet fully understood. it is already clear that the gap between rich and poor will continue to widen. that is why there is an urgent need for action, not just tomorrow but yesterday. we need europe-wide minimum standards, strong social security systems in the member states. we need wages and pensions that guarantee a life of dignity. while the director-general of the international labour organization said just a few years ago that 'work is the best antidote to poverty', this is far from the case for everyone. i mean , imagine this . one in ten of the eu's working population lives in a poverty-stricken household despite working. according to the official definition, if you earn just 60% of the median wage, you are at risk of relative poverty. in the case of the netherlands, the average wage is below the poverty line. but if you work, you can't be threatened by poverty. if you work, you must be able to live a life with dignity. in the end, it is the working people who create the wealth. this is another reason why we need a clear and ambitious minimum wage initiative. what good is it if there are legal minimum wages but they don't even protect against poverty? homelessness is on the rise, precarious employment is on the rise, and involuntary part-time work and fixed-term work are on the rise. gig and platform work, spin-offs, pseudo- and solo-employment, subcontracting chains, privatisations and liberalisations have fuelled a wage-based labour market competition and this across europe. this is also a way of weakening trade unions and eroding collective bargaining systems. the decline in the level of wage coverage, in turn, leads to a decline in the overall level of wages for all workers. in 14 eu member states, one in two workers is working without a collective agreement. this usually means poor pay, poor working conditions and less job security. we have seen it in the crisis: temporary workers, mini-jobs, temporary workers, workers with an employment contract or a fee-based contract were the first to be thrown over the cliff. they've already lost their jobs. but should it not be clear that there are social conditionalities in the european union? large companies, corporations are being bailed out with billions of euros in the crisis and still laying off employees. this is not happening! employees are being laid off and at the same time dividends are being paid out to shareholders. this is not happening! it is obvious that the crisis of one is the profit of the other. while 75% of europeans say they are in a worse economic situation than before the coronavirus crisis, the brand new oxfam study shows that the 10 richest people in the world have amassed 500 billion euros in wealth, increased their wealth, during the pandemic alone. ladies and gentlemen, with my report you now have 73 recitals and 112 paragraphs to vote on this and other subjects. other concrete measures have also been taken. we are calling for a european social security number, access to the workplace for trade unions, special protection against discrimination and disadvantage at the workplace and the gradual abolition of zero-hour contracts. we are calling for initiatives for a minimum income, a child guarantee and an ambitious minimum wage initiative. social concerns can no longer be subordinated to the fundamental freedoms of the market, enshrined in the eu treaties. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is high time to act for a life free from poverty and in dignity for all people, against precarious employment, for good working conditions and social security in the member states and in europe. i thank you for your dedicated cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs in the political groups and look forward to discussing this with you today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm working. work is the best antidote to poverty. unfortunately, this principle no longer applies in the european union. and now we are discussing a report by mrs demirel on working poverty, which is very true. i am surprised that not a single word is said in this report about the situation in germany, because germany is once again at the top of the list. wealthy germany: we are not only the biggest paymaster in the european union, we are once again at the top. we not only have the highest marginal wage costs and the highest energy prices, but we also have the largest low-wage sector in the european union. eight million people in germany work in the low-wage sector. this means that they earn less than eur 10.80 8 million people. how did this happen? the pandora's box has been opened by the social democrats. the social democrats have once again betrayed the working class with agenda 2010. what's the next step? what does mrs demirel do with the left-handers? the open border policy - the open border policy leads to wage dumping and modern slavery, nothing else, which leads to poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these policies - these policies lead to poverty. and we have to stop that. the european union is the problem. she's not the answer.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not border procedures play a crucial role in the european commission's proposal for a reform of the european asylum system. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the asylum procedures directive and the implementation of the asylum support directive, in particular by ensuring that the member states are able to implement the asylum support directive in full. we do not want this report to replace this impact assessment or a comprehensive report from the commission. on the contrary, we continue to expect both. but we want to do our part in this report as the european parliament in examining the current implementation of the border procedures, in making proposals and also in looking at how we can achieve improvements. we want to make this possible on an evidence-based and fact-oriented basis. to do this, we point out at the beginning of the report, it is important that the relevant data are collected by the member states and that we receive these data. i would like to thank the gue, s&d, renew europe and epp groups in particular for their constructive cooperation on the report. we all agree that the procedures should be as quick and efficient as possible. but we also agree that the asylum system must operate under the rule of law with respect for human rights and human dignity . and we are showing with this report attitude. because we are showing that even on these difficult issues in the asylum field, it is possible to find compromises between different camps. i emphasize this particularly because i also see it as a signal from parliament to the council that it is normal to have different opinions, but that it is also the task of a democracy to produce a result from these different opinions which can be used to solve the challenges in the rule of law. we stress in our report that we are concerned. is concerned that reports of human rights violations in border areas are increasing, that the eu agency for fundamental rights also considers that the number of alleged incidents has increased significantly in recent years, and that there are numerous cases of persons being refused entry despite having sought asylum. of course, member states have a duty to prevent unauthorised border crossings, but access to asylum procedures remains unaffected. member states may not reject applicants and collective expulsions are not permitted. we therefore call for an independent mechanism to monitor fundamental rights at the borders and in border procedures. it must also be accessible to non-governmental organisations, eu agencies and international organisations. unfortunately, the use of border procedures at the moment means that it is very likely that these procedures will involve detention. and this is despite the fact that the reception guidelines state that applicants may only be detained in exceptional circumstances. we call on member states to create alternatives to detention and to ensure that children are not detained under any circumstances. unfortunately, it is also evident in border procedures that basic procedural guarantees are not respected: in particular, people in need of protection do not receive adequate support in border procedures. the report also points out that in all the member states examined there are shortcomings in the provision of legal advice to applicants in border proceedings. we show that border procedures - especially in areas where large numbers of asylum seekers arrive - cannot replace the provision of adequate staff and resources, as this can lead to violations of fundamental rights and inefficient, time-consuming procedures. finally, we would point out that, even in the light of these findings, border procedures need not be carried out by member states. but if they are carried out, then procedural guarantees must be ensured. i would like to thank once again all the staff who have worked so hard on this report and the political groups. i expect the report to be accepted as it stands and i look forward to further discussions on it.
madam president, dear ministers, dear executive vice—president, dear co-rapporteurs and shadows, dear colleagues, this law is no ordinary law. this law is the centrepiece of the eu recovery fund, and it lays the foundation for something new. when i entered this house one and a half years ago, there was no common european fiscal policy and no needs—based solidarity in times of crisis. when the financial crises hit in the past – and we all know they hit hard – the only support our countries could find lay in unloved and undemocratic tools like the esm. with our vote today, this will change. the rrf is no ordinary law. it is a political, federalist, european innovation, a game changer for our common european economic policy and solidarity in europe. our vote today may very well mark the beginning of a more permanent architecture to raise eu funds and to direct them where they are most needed, irrespective of nationality. this law sets new, unheard-of standards when it comes to investment. it requires countries to address the adverse effects of the crisis on women, to invest in the next generation and to support the ones most hit via its social pillar. it ensures that over the next six years, eur 250 billion need to be invested to fight climate change based on an improved investment tracking methodology, while not spending one cent on harmful activities when it comes to the environment. it ensures that over the next six years, another eur 135 billion will be invested towards the digital transition. but this law is not only about investment, it’s also about reforms. it asks countries to tackle the weaknesses that they have, because we can potentially get out of this crisis with investments, but we will not be able to weather the next one without reforms. so with today’s vote, the ball is in the court of the countries, and they need to draw up their national recovery and resilience plans. but i would like to give them four short messages on this process. first, the struggles we can see in some countries show that these plans need to be publicly debated and scrutinised. you need to involve the public, and this cannot just be backroom deals. second, all countries need to tackle reforms – also germany, the netherlands and france. third, invest fresh money. don’t just repackage existing stimulus packages. and fourth, we from the european parliament, we will be watching, because we care. we will scrutinise every euro spent. we will scrutinise every plan to ensure that this project is a success.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are discussing today the resilience facility, the european response to our economic crisis. we have to make sure that we really come into the future with it more innovative, stronger and, most importantly, bolder. it's not just about spending the money on the right priorities, it's also about getting the right reforms in all the member states. because we all need to do our homework so that we can come out of this crisis stronger together. i am thinking of my own country, where the federal government still sees itself as the economic teacher in europe and now has to do the work itself because the commission is calling for further reforms, and that is exactly what is right. i call on the commission to continue to be firm. the same applies to the question of hungary. i see now that the commission has called for changes to the law on public procurement in order to finally change the systematic fraud - that is also right. one last thought. in addition to the rff, vaccination in europe should have been given greater priority. we should have invested more and faster in production capacity. the sooner we get out of this crisis through vaccination, the better for the economy and society.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the reconstruction fund shows that europe is strong when it stands together in solidarity and moves forward. this fund invests in the green transformation and digitalisation of europe. and that's exactly right. but unfortunately, one thing has been forgotten in the basic architecture of this economic package: namely, the half of the population that, even with the closure of kindergartens and schools, does most of the unpaid work that holds our society together in this serious crisis and that pays the highest price for the crisis. in italy, the largest recipient of the economic recovery package, 70 percent of those who lost their jobs during the crisis are women. the economic recovery package, however, invests mainly in sectors in which almost all men work. this is not only absurd and unfair, it is also not economically viable. and it's good that the commission has now followed suit and has anchored gender equality in all its priorities. because a successful economy and strong social cohesion will only exist with women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we're talking about the building and resilience fund and the facility. the word "facility" brings back bad memories. remember this: ten years ago we voted in this house on another facility. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this stability facility is not necessarily a confidence-building measure when it comes to setting up a new facility now. and for me, the big problem here is, if it was so bad then, why should it be any better now? moreover, we see that, for example, when it comes to spending money, we still have eur 300 billion left over from the last mff that has not been spent. and now you think that with 670 billion new dollars, we can now spend more and spend better? the money will take many, many years to reach the recipients. but we need help now. how are you going to do that? and at the latest, when the citizens realize that you can't eat these bonds, then they'll realize that something has gone completely wrong here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the recovery plan that europe is conceiving, we are making a new start. a new beginning for us italians, for my country of origin, with mario draghi as its first chapter, who was commissioned by the president of the republic to build this effort for a country so affected. it is a restructuring of the economic and political paradigm that we are about to undergo. the parties, all the parties, have been forced to play the game of logic, in the hope that europe will once again become a global power. and that's the advantage we can bring to everyone. reforms coupled with resources, so that after the pandemic this continent is a continent that is moving at a different pace than before, where the rules bend to the logic of growth. so let's not waste opportunities, let's not talk about the green deal as if it's some sort of moral leap back to a community that has already taken up that challenge. we use this as a tool to bring european excellence in the industrial field in the field of sustainability to the world. in short, a plan of revival which allows us not to be content with being defined as a union of states, but which brings us back to the spirit of the community of european peoples.
mr. president, the recovery and resilience mechanism is our chance to get through this crisis. that is why we allocated 20% for digital transformation and 37% for the environment, but the european parliament asked for more. we asked for 10% for education, because without education we cannot talk about a long-term vision, and 2% for the cultural and creative sector, which is badly affected by the crisis. we need more ambition. recovery plans should be transparent, non-political, respond to the reform requirements set out in the country reports and be the result of extensive and well-organised public consultations. unfortunately, there are governments, like the one in romania, that prefer not to listen to european recommendations. the european parliament must be involved in implementing these plans so that european money reaches the real beneficiaries. i propose that a european-level control mechanism be set up to ensure that recovery plans are implemented correctly and transparently.
president, the temporary crown fund: this has been the subject of lengthy negotiations, and rightly so. and yes, also through the netherlands. because to deal with economic problems by giving out more and more subsidies, no, i don't believe in that. what i do believe in is the implementation of necessary and structural reforms. the agreement now on the table is, in my view, balanced, appropriate and proportionate. it also addresses the crisis facing many people and businesses. these european loans and grants for rehabilitation are subject to strict conditions. member states simply need to make sensible reforms, but also consider the digital and green transition. these recovery plans should reflect the recommendations of the european semester. simply because we must now rely on that resilient european economy. then i can't help but think about investing in clean fuels: hydrogen, synthetic kerosene. mr president, let us give it a whirl tonight, but let us agree to be critical of this fund investing in europe's earning power.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the joint reconstruction fund for europe's corona crisis is a huge opportunity. it is the first time that europe has responded to a major crisis with such a concerted effort. 750 billion euros financed by joint bonds, 57 percent of the money in climate change and digitization. these are the right priorities. but what is even more disappointing is that in germany the corresponding programme, at least 22 billion euros, is to be spent mainly on political recycling. three quarters of the money is to be used in germany for projects which the federal government was planning anyway. and all this just to deny the states and municipalities access to this money and just put it in the federal budget. that is why i am calling on the european commission and the german government to change this plan. make sure that regional investment is also accessible and not mainly made easy, which was planned anyway.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the budget is to be balanced in revenue and expenditure under article 310 of the eu treaties. this central pillar of eu prosperity and sustainability is being ignored overnight. the eu will for the first time be taking on debt in the broad sense. it is always easier to get into debt, to spend foreign money or to solve the problems of the eu. the fact is that the arguments have been exchanged here in the last two hours and, in my view, the path of least resistance is being followed. of course, anyone who benefits from these 670 billion euros will agree today. it's in the nature of things. it is also natural that many people here in the house believe and hope that this money will be handled well in the member states. and that's where the misconception lies. what has not worked in the last decades will not work in the coming year. i shall not be able to vote in favour today because we are robbing the house of the ability of future generations to act.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what does the eu do for the people of europe? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's financial sector is able to compete with the rest of the world in the global market. and through the rrf building and resilience facility, at least 37 percent of the money goes to climate change and at least 20 percent goes to digital transformation. what is ecological is determined by taxonomy, and no investment project should compromise the eu's environmental objectives. this is a green success! the rrf is €672.5 billion of solidarity-based funding. and this is also a great european success of solidarity. what is missing is the european parliament's co-decision on national rdf plans and green bonds. and it's still going to be much greener. and yet, the rrf is a constructive response to the coronavirus crisis and to the climate crisis. because we are accelerating the green transformation of our economy and industry to meet the paris climate goals. and this is a european ... (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. the eu recovery facility (or rrf for recovery and resilience facility) is at the heart of the nextgenerationeu programme touted as a stimulus programme for the next generation and the way out of the crisis. but this crisis is self-inflicted, through lockdowns and vaccine scandals, and so the european union is now experiencing the greatest economic collapse in peacetime. and to cover up its own failure, the european union is borrowing €750 billion in contravention of the treaty. the commission considers that the aid is incompatible with the internal market. and article 311, for everyone's understanding, states: 'the eu budget shall be financed entirely from own resources, without prejudice to other revenue.' the illegal debts are not recorded anywhere. the european union breaks the law and keeps false accounts. and now the money is to be poured into sterile assets and trillion-dollar fantasies like the euro, climate action and immigration, which, with the eu's 9% contribution to global co2 emissions and a million births a week in africa, are more pointless than irrigating the sahara. this is not a plan for the next generation, but the agony and the desolation of a continent without a future.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. i think that's rude. but what is it? the poles want to protect marriage, the family and the human right to life, and in so doing they are protecting and fighting for the very values which are at the heart of european identity. one of our founding fathers, robert schuman, said that democracy must be christian or it will not survive. and i remind the christian democrats, who still call themselves christian democrats, of otto von habsburg, who once said: 'europe will be christian or it will not be.' my fellow citizens, are you going to throw this all away? do you want to undermine the foundations of the european union? we should be grateful to the poles for their commitment to european values. for democracy, for freedom of expression and, yes, for life and for the dignity of the human person, of all human beings, from conception to death. dear polish colleagues! may you succeed in preserving the foundations of a values-based christian society. and may you succeed in securing a sustainable community for your families and your children in your country and hopefully in many member states. looking around, it seems hopeless. but you, dear poles, have proven time and again in history that your struggle and your commitment are rewarded in the end. i'm happy to fight alongside you for this, and i wish you good luck and god's blessings.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate on poland and the alleged violation of the rule of law is an evergreen in this parliament. but this debate today is itself an attack on the rule of law. it begins with a discussion on something for which the european union has no competence, namely the right to abortion of the sovereign state of poland. it goes on to say that here members of parliament feel that they must deny the legitimacy of the legitimate polish constitutional court because it does not like its decisions. yeah, that's what happens in court. you don't like some of the choices. and it's a joke, because there is no fundamental right to abortion at all. there is no human right to abortion. but there is a human right to life, and that includes unborn life. and that's why 32 nations - among them the united states of america, but also hungary and poland - in the geneva consensus declaration on promoting women's health, have decided to fight abortion because there are far too many abortions. the countries of france, germany, spain and italy alone: half a million a year. every abortion is a tragedy, and politics is called upon to fight for the right to life and decent conditions for families, not to attack countries that do. it is time to be against abortion and for life, not for immigration. and it is time to finally stop demanding a concept of the rule of law that amounts to the idea that the rule of law is what is left, and that everything that is legal and correct is evil.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in politics as in diplomacy, personal experience is a precious treasure. you, mr borrell, have had a very special personal experience in the last few days. fortunately, these experiences were not comparable to those of many russians who have been experiencing this in recent weeks. yes, mr. mariani, we are looking at russia as far as vladivostok. and who do we see? people who were arrested, beaten. people like alyona kitaeva, a woman, an activist, who was strangled with a plastic bag until she got the pin from her phone. people like margarita judina from st. petersburg, who was kicked with boots until she ended up in the intensive care unit. and then she was also urged to recuse herself from her complaint. your experiences, mr. borrell, were special, but they were one: it was sobering and degrading, not only for you, but also for us and for the member states, for berlin, for paris, for the national governments on whose behalf you travelled. and now it's time to draw conclusions from this visit. that means we have to stop cooperating with putin sympathizers of all stripes. we must end the commercialization of people like gerhard schröder, bring it to an end. we must launch anti-corruption campaigns in the eu. we need to think about sanctions. and yes, we also have to think about stopping nord stream 2. and i say this not only to your address, and not so much to your address, but to berlin and paris. because that's where the people are.
i have to say, madam president, no plenary session in this house is complete without praise for the rule of law in the eu and condemnation of its lack all over the world. russia is once again accused today in the navalny case. what do we know? there's a final russian conviction for fraud and money laundering with probation, a violation of navalny's probation and a judicial revocation of probation. the withdrawal is formally justified and justified, although it is hard and probably politically expedient. the united states would have handled edward snowden in a very different way. parole is revoked a thousand times, including in the eu. we too have been subject to politically arbitrary judgments. and the eu has been breaking its own treaties almost every day since 2012, and again as i speak. because, contrary to the treaty, this parliament is just approving a eur three quarters of a trillion in eu debt. there is evidence that peaceful protests in moscow have not been dispersed by russian police in a peaceful manner - we do not welcome this. however, the eu is no stranger to such images. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. it would be helpful if the eu and its member states would address their own rule of law deficiencies before they emerge as teachers and moral champions of the world. the eu is not the best of all possible worlds, and its ills are by no means all necessary. as voltaire said in reply to leibniz: "everyone must first cultivate his own garden".
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it seems so long ago that we talked about yemen and the gravest humanitarian crisis facing the world. and yet, for some unknown reason, it does not make it onto our agenda. we do not even treat it as an urgent matter, which always surprises me very much. let me make my position very clear. the international community has failed yemen. the high representative often merely reiterates the un security council's statement with a commitment to saudi oversight of the entire conflict and a commitment to the territorial integrity of yemen. this was despite the assurance that a yemeni solution to this yemeni problem must be found. the high representative will surely agree that there is a lot of support for a separate state among the people of the south and that the only political group currently engaged in serious talks with the houthis is the southern transitional council. if the talks are to have any chance of success, all options must be on the table, and that includes a two-state solution. let me end by giving you some figures. since the beginning of 2015, the european union has provided eur 896 million to yemen. during the same period, some $3.6 billion in aid was sent to yemen. is this really a policy from which we can hope for a lasting peace for yemen? what is needed is a genuine political dialogue between the yemeni factions, with an agenda set by the yemenis. death and destruction are the only things that third-party interference has brought to this suffering country.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, yemen is indeed the worst humanitarian crisis around the world and the people of yemen are suffering in a way i think we can’t even imagine. but it’s also part of the story that this war is fought with weapons made in the european union. the eurofighter from airbus is used to bomb hospitals in yemen. french mirage bombers are used by the united arab emirates to do exactly the same. both airplanes are equipped with mk-80 bombs manufactured by rwm, the italian subsidiary of german rheinmetall. and the french company dci is at this moment training saudi soldiers on how to better launch rockets into yemen. so we actually can do something as the european union to stop this war. that’s why i think the message from our parliament’s resolution needs to be crystal clear: no more weapons, no more spare parts, no more maintenance until the war in yemen is over. and i want to say to mr borrell that i really hope that the message from the next foreign affairs council will be just the same, because this is the only way we can build credibility, to put pressure on iran and everyone else who wants to make money or politics with the suffering of the people in yemen, to get out of this beautiful country and let the people of yemen sort out their conflicts. and there’s actually a window of opportunity, and mr borrell, you mentioned that. the new us administration is doing exactly this. they are working on a suspension of all arms deals to saudi arabia and the uae and a diplomatic initiative, a new diplomatic initiative, to end the war in yemen. i think that all of us in this room and beyond should do everything possible to make sure that the european union picks up on this initiative, and to build a transatlantic alliance to stop the war in yemen and the suffering of the people of yemen.
i have to say, madam president, we are in the sixth year of this war. 24 million people are in need of aid, including over 12 million children. 2.1 million children are acutely malnourished. when we look at yemen, we are looking at the worst humanitarian crisis in the world, and yet a rather forgotten crisis. this is perhaps partly because few people have the opportunity to flee to europe from the people affected there. the funding gap for humanitarian aid last year was 45 percent, almost half. and yes, the eu countries, including the commission, are giving money. but in terms of economic power, we are far behind what is possible. and this is especially tragic in the face of a global pandemic. there are outbreaks of malaria, cholera, dengue, but also covid-19. and the medical staff has little protective equipment. most of them don't even get paid. if we are to do something about this cruel crisis now, we need diplomatic efforts, but we also need more money at the next donor conference of the eu countries.
i have to say, madam president, a fitness video with a military coup in the background. this has meme potential. but it was myanmar that brought this to the fore. the democratization process has not been in a good state for some time now, and there is also justified criticism of the civilian government. but the people have expressed their opinion clearly in elections and are now peacefully taking to the streets, demonstrating, striking for democracy. the military responded with a coup and violence. the eu must take action: support for the rohingya refugees and other minorities, together with the un, which needs access to the country, sanctions against the military responsible, suspension of preferential access to the eu internal market. the european union is not a party to the conflict. the eu is not yet a diplomatic power. but we are an economic power. and as myanmar's third largest trading partner, we must leverage the economic leverage so that one day the fragile seedling of democracy in myanmar can grow and not be overrun by tanks.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu has already made a major contribution to the peace process in the region, and the eu is working to achieve this. russia is an important partner for us, and it is not useful to demonize it, despite all the justified criticism. the rapprochement of ukraine with the eu, which has cost us well over eur 10 billion since 2014, can only happen if ukraine also shows corresponding reform efforts, which unfortunately is not the case. the failure to implement the csf, which i have mentioned on several occasions, is as striking a proof of this as the lack of response to our letter to president selensky. president von der leyen, by the way, has not yet reacted to this matter either. recently, the ukrainian president ordered the closure of three tv stations. they were supposedly spreading pro-russian propaganda. the closure of these channels because their content has clearly not been approved by the political decision-makers is an unacceptable attack on freedom of expression. ukraine under selensky does not seem to be following the hoped-for path of reform, but instead is following the us doctrine and working its way into russia. ukraine could serve as a bridge between the eu and russia. until that changes, the eu should suspend aid and loans.
we now come to the second round of voting today. the vote will be taken on the items on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds shall apply. all votes shall be cast by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote from now until 9.15 p.m.
the commission has already done so. i do not agree with those who denounce mistakes or complain about a lack of transparency. i would urge you to do everything you can to pursue any hope you may have. in concrete terms, scientists at harvard have developed a low-cost, simple approach to a vaccine. it is based on peptides from the sars-cov-2 virus, which are applied through nasal spray. all information is published under a creative commons license, which means that anyone can use this knowledge for free. so far, however, only a few hundred volunteers have been tested. because without patentability, no manufacturer is going to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in clinical trials. can we afford to pass up an opportunity just because you can't make a profit from it? on the contrary, would it not be wonderful if we could create a public good with public funds? i urge you to contact this project. let the ema experts examine the vaccination procedure. because a common vaccine would be a dream indeed!
madam president, a global pandemic demands a global response. only 73 out of 195 countries have started the covid vaccination. this is not good enough. only the richest countries have access to the covid vaccines. instead of protecting the interests of pharmaceutical companies, we need to protect all people. health care should be a global human right. dear european commission, dear national governments: don’t block the patent waiver. share intellectual property rights and support compulsory licenses. auch in der eu sind die baustellen groß. das ziel, bis zum herbst 70 prozent der europäerinnen und europäer zu impfen, werden wir nicht von alleine schaffen. und bisher bleiben sie, frau kommissionspräsidentin, uns einen konkreten plan schuldig. ausschließlich auf die hersteller zu hoffen, reicht nicht aus. wir müssen alle produktionskapazitäten ausschöpfen und mehr haushaltsmittel mobilisieren. wiederholen sie nicht die fehler der letzten monate! machen sie ihre pläne transparent und arbeiten sie mit uns zusammen.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is not prepared to accept this. it's about time. parliament has waited a long time for this exchange with you, and it has been postponed for far too long. you stand for the eu like no one else. polls are showing massive losses of confidence. the damage is to the citizens, to the eu. they must now - we all must now - pick up the pieces, restore disappointed trust with pains. time lost that could have been better spent. now it's time to be honest. and precisely because we believe in europe: make it transparent, madam president, completely. the truth will come out anyway. this is no time for grand declarations. in a crisis, it's called leadership. that means leading by example, not lagging behind, swimming ahead of the wave. to thierry breton: it shows how to do it: leverage and network capacity, maximize production and delivery, open parallel eyes, detect mutants, analyze, adjust vaccine research, develop vaccines further. finally, regional exchange in the eu: what works where, why, when best? this is something which is necessary for an opening-up strategy, and we owe it to the citizens and the economy of europe.
madam president, let me be very clear to the commission president. i really support and defend the common european approach on vaccines. it is really good that we do not have a harmful race between the different eu member states on who gets the vaccine first. but the eu’s strategy is really turning a blind eye to the global dimension. covax and the who patent pool do not deliver in securing a fair distribution of the vaccine around the globe. when the smallest part of the world’s population secures the biggest share of the vaccine doses, something is going wrong. we need to increase the production capacity. you said it yourself, but that means that also countries like india and south africa need to be enabled to produce the vaccine, and the eu must use its leverage to get the pharma companies to share their technology and know-how with developing countries. we can only win against covid if we act together, and we have to act now.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. many who live at home and organize their own care through assistants or relatives have been forgotten since march. at present, the offer of vaccines is made first to the most vulnerable groups, and that is right. but what does this mean for the 40-year-old father of a family with als or the parents caring for their child with chronic lung disease? there are 80 million disabled people in the eu. not everyone is over 75, and not everyone lives in institutions. the desperation of the people here is very great. don't get me wrong, this debate should not be about playing groups in our population against each other. no, the simple answer is more production capacity, more vaccine, and faster action. the debate on supply bottlenecks and transparency of contractual arrangements between the eu and pharmaceutical companies is both right and wrong. the same applies to the dispute over states which have a double strategy: right, because these things must be clarified in principle; wrong, because the timing is wrong. political blame games do not produce a vaccine! so i expect the commission and the member states and all of us here who have influence, in this situation, not to be divided over what has been done wrong, but to focus here and today, with united forces, on how to get more vaccine.
madam president, i would ask ms von der leyen why it is we are still not able to see the contracts. so far we have heard that it’s because the pharmaceutical companies do not agree, even though i don’t really understand how the scrutiny of the european parliament – of the commission – is somehow conditional on the agreement of pharmaceutical companies. anyway, i went to the reading room, i handed over my phone, i signed the non-disclosure agreement, and then i got to read these fun details of the agreements that we have struck. these are probably the most valuable contracts that the eu has ever concluded, certainly in terms of the economic impact if we made a bad deal in this case. but we as parliament cannot read them. you have now offered a contact group and thankfully, a belgian minister has tweeted the prices. but i don’t think that democratic control can work on accidental or restricted transparency, and actually, transparency should be your best friend because it protects you against blame—shifting by the member states. that’s what gains you trust, and it allows us to avoid mistakes, particularly in the future. so i think you should try a bit more transparency.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. although many steps have been taken, we still have a lot of work to do to have an effective vaccination strategy. the ppe, the political group of which i am a member, supports full involvement in the reinvigoration of the vaccination strategy, believing that all efforts must now be directed towards increasing the production of vaccine doses. the only acceptable strategy is therefore to go on the offensive and to adapt production capacities as far as possible to the production of the vaccine. there are, however, two things to consider. firstly, we have to be mindful of export restrictions and take into account that at this moment johnson & johnson is producing vaccine doses in the eu to be completed in the us, with us export restrictions on vaccines in place. we need to make sure that those doses of vaccine produced even partially in the eu will be available for purchase for european citizens. secondly, we need to be firm with the big pharmaceutical companies and make it clear that now is the time to demonstrate their good faith in human health, a good faith so often mentioned in debates but so little proven in reality.
in writing. some member states would not have had access to covid-19 vaccines today if the eu had not had a common vaccination strategy. but when we compare it to the top countries, the eu is slower. the commission had delays in signing contracts and failed to help the companies to increase their production capacity. in addition, it has not made the contracts transparent and has not yet published a precise delivery schedule for each member state. the commission should therefore act swiftly by publishing a precise timetable for the delivery of vaccines for each member state. a concrete plan is also needed to increase production capacity and guarantee access to the necessary raw materials. one existing solution that requires development is contracting out production capacity to companies that do not yet have their own vaccine. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the information is not disclosed to third parties. let us not forget our neighbours with european aspirations. for example, the republic of moldova still does not have access to vaccines and needs to be supported. romania has promised to deliver 200,000 vaccines, but more is needed.
in writing. brexit has always been dismissed as a stupid decision by idiotic or xenophobic islanders. the contrast between the disaster of the eu vaccination strategy and the success of the uk is the very reason why brexit was a good decision. the decision to take the procurement of vaccines away from the member states and to give it exclusively to the commission has caused considerable damage to the economies of the european union and to public health. while billions of dollars have been thrown around for decades, every euro has been taken during the negotiations with the vaccine manufacturers. the resulting delay was many times more expensive for the economy than the most expensive vaccine ever could have been. in addition, the recognition of vaccines is relatively slow. in contrast, the united kingdom has built up a clear lead in vaccinating its population. in response, the commission decided to wage war against, among other things, the british company astra zeneca. the total incompetence of the commission president has been known for years. that was her ticket into the eu. even the eu-friendly opponents of brexit describe the eu's vaccination strategy as chaotic and praise the british. i hope this embarrassing episode finally sparks a meaningful debate about the eu and its systemic failures.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. – this is the second plenary session in a row whereby the main point of discussion is focusing on the covid-19 theme, and rightly so. millions have died. millions ended up prisoners in their homes. businesses and jobs have been lost. meanwhile, pharmaceutical companies have been competing hard to achieve fast research and production breakthroughs and then to obtain regulatory approval for their vaccine against the virus. we needed this race to happen in order to acquire swiftly control over the pandemic. so now that we have reached the production stage for the vaccines that have been created, it is incredible that world governments remain apparently tied to a business as usual approach regarding the production and delivery of vaccines. globally, many companies are able and ready to master the knowhow and participate in the production and provision of vaccine doses. oligopolising global manufacturing of covid-19 vaccines is not working now, and it will not work in the future. therefore, i fully support the call for the relevant patent rights to be waived, in order to allow a massive production worldwide of vaccines and a subsequent fast and wide-ranging rollout of vaccination programmes. at stake are hundreds of thousands, indeed millions, of lives.
in writing. in my view, the european coordinated vaccine order was the right one. now we're eight months into the process and we have to realize that the reality of vaccine production has caught up with us. the needle is, among other things, production capacity and supply chains. all the commission's efforts must remain focused on the production of the vaccine, especially because of the virus mutations. since the mutations are even more dangerous, i support the proposal for an early warning system to allow for better adaptation of production capacities and supply chains.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, with so much information available and the possibility for billions of people to express their opinions freely in the internet, democracy should flourish. why is the opposite happening? why are we seeing disinformation and hate speech thriving, fuelling extremism and violence, as we have all seen on capitol hill? the answer is easy. because this information is circulating on giant private platforms whose only goal is maximising profit. and we are the raw material. companies like google and facebook track every single step we take online and offline, and put micro-profiles and models that allow them to predict our behaviour. those predictions are then sold to advertisers. this is where the revenue of those companies comes from: from us, from our behaviour. and the same micro-profiles allow the companies to keep us very effectively on their platforms, appealing to strong feelings like fear and hate and anger, which trigger us to interact longer, to share more, to generate more revenue. hence the hate, hence the disinformation. and now some people think that we can solve the problem these companies have created by asking them to arbitrarily censor this harmful content themselves. that is not an option for democracy. but the good news is the remedy is easy. let us ban the surveillance business model, starting with a ban on targeted advertising. this is something we can easily do in the digital services act. colleagues, let’s do it.
madam president, mutual blame and empty moral crowns; it's all a trade war about who gets the upper hand in the digital economy. the united states, china or the european union? with the help of relevant digital agreements serving the interests of the groups and under the pretext of protecting personal data, the european union and the us are competing for control of the mass recording, archiving, marketing and exploitation of data by state and other agencies and groups, based on their astronomical profits, which are "normally" multiplied in the midst of a pandemic. at the same time, they cooperate by extracting and transmitting personal data and information behind the backs of the people, intensifying the infiltration and repression against the popular workers' movement. as long as data, its collection and processing are owned and controlled by the monopolies of the bourgeois states in the service of capitalist exploitation, there is no way to protect them. the popular workers' struggle and the struggle to defend the rights and freedoms of the people are inextricably linked to the struggle to overthrow this barbarism which turns the enormous scientific and technological potential into new fetters to the detriment of the people.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow officers! it's now commonplace for the internet giants to delete ideologically dissenting opinions with the push of a button. the impeachment of an american president - regardless of his personality and judgement - is completely unacceptable and violates democratic principles. the big social platforms are no longer just social networks that facilitate the connection of people we know, but online platforms that influence all areas of life: business, public services, art, culture, public discourse and so on, politics. developments in recent months have clearly shown that the leaders of the tech giants have become political actors in restricting freedom of speech in some cases. without rules, they abuse their position by deleting, moderating, censoring as they please. a significant part of political expression is now taking place on the web and it is therefore necessary to ensure that freedom of expression on the internet is also respected at all times. the tech giants should not be the arbiters of the public. free speech is a fundamental pillar of democracy and can only be restricted in exceptional cases and only by law. if we have laws that regulate the print and electronic media, we need to have laws that regulate the internet. we need rules that force the internet giants to operate legally, transparently and with control, and not allow them to arbitrarily restrict the freedom of all of us in their own interests.
i have to say, madam president, social media today is much more than just virtual yearbooks or isolated chat services. their distribution and use have made them public spaces. social media posts become news stories on tv, newspapers and radio, and news media share their stories on social platforms, where young people in particular get the majority of their news. here, the citizens influence the politicians, and the politicians influence the citizens. there is no doubt that social media plays a major role in the democratic dialogue, and that is why we must insist on democratic rules of the game. it is a complex task to regulate virtual public space. i think we need three principles for further work: legality, transparency and complaints. what's legal offline should be legal online. that should be our first principle. it must not be the social media's taste judgments that restrict freedom of expression. secondly, there must be transparency in the platforms' decisions. we as legislators need to be able to see the algorithms that promote or inhibit advertising and the decisions that underlie the removal of advertising. finally, there should be complaints mechanisms so that users of social media can have their case heard if their content is removed. we must ensure the best conditions for democratic dialogue, even when it is conducted virtually. that is why we are having a very important debate today.
madam president, commissioner, mrs zacarias, anti-democratic viruses are circulating on social networks right now, and they are undermining the democratic immune system of many people. forming tribes around dogmas of ideological hostility is simple and has consequences in our real lives. all totalitarianism begins by disqualifying the adversary, by dehumanizing him. we talk about democratic control of social networks, but the first space is that of those of us who hold public office, and especially of those with government responsibilities. the most serious game is the encouragement of ideological hostility by governments: we have seen it in the united states, in russia, in hungary, in the catalan region; we know it with the second vice-president of my country, pablo iglesias. commissioner jourová, it would be interesting to have a european code of ethics for the use of social media by public authorities and public officials as a way of clarifying and setting the standards of behaviour required of public officials and government officials. this code would provide a basis for member states to incorporate such criteria into their national rules on good governance.
madam president, if the dominant internet platforms were states, they would be dictatorships that use an army of robots to spy on their citizens and manipulate them, that dictate the news headlines, that arbitrarily censor what their citizens may say, that cut off communication channels with citizens of other countries, that expel them at will from their country. the eu must stop putting these tech despots and their error—prone machines in charge of curing society and of preventing violence and crime, lies and hate because this only fuels the despot’s powers, and despots will use despotic means. the weapons of a democracy are humans, the rule of law and independent courts to take decisions. let’s start setting up our own federated platforms and make corporate platforms interconnect. let democracy reign in the digital age, not corporations and their machines.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, social media is both an opportunity and a threat to democracy. when we talk about democratic control of social media and the protection of fundamental rights, we are talking about the very heart of our liberal democracy. democracy, the rule of law, but above all individual fundamental rights - that is our european identity. the fundamental right to freedom of expression is of fundamental importance. if we want to protect it and at the same time fight fake news, then we have to start with ourselves first, and if we communicate ourselves, we don't spread false facts in the political space. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. when we talk about vaccination policy in europe and what is in the contract with astrazeneca, for example, the institutions of the european union must stick to the truth and the facts. only then will we gain trust and credibility. i am glad that we agree in this debate that the restriction and interference in freedom of expression can only be done along the lines of the law and we cannot leave it to private individuals in europe and in the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we were all horrified by the images of the capitol. but we all also remember this young senator who also became the first black president through social media. both trump and obama were elected with the help of social media. it's not social media that's good or bad. it's what we do with it, what rules we give them. instead of restricting free speech through upload filters, we should be getting more transparency about algorithms and giving users more choice. instead of letting private companies decide what is illegal, the courts must continue to decide that and we need better cooperation with the authorities. we will continue to see people writing nonsense on the internet. but we should do a better job of protecting our democracies from outside disinformation campaigns. more freedom of expression is the possibility we need to deal with with smart rules , not by restricting it. this must be the european way of the future.
i have to say, madam president, what we've been seeing for years is a shift in our public discourse. these changes are manifold. we have heard it. there are the opportunities and there are the risks. we are in the middle of a conflict of interests over the question of the governance of the digital age. this is a conflict between freedom that empowers and freedom that insults, disempowers and humiliates. we look for solutions. but the worst solution we can have is to leave it to private providers to make decisions about it. we should be glad that trump's hate and incitement are now silenced. but i cannot be happy that this decision was taken by a private company. today freedom of expression to tomorrow freedom of expression. so we have to make at least three decisions. first, online monopolies have to be broken. secondly, the decisions to resolve this conflict between freedom and liberty must remain democratically legitimate. and there can be no automation of such events. neither ai nor big money can decide our basic rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. freedom of speech is the foundation of our democracy. the exercise of freedom of expression is essential for the formation of political will and for fair and free elections. we live in a media world where political will is formed digitally. as long as the freedom of expression is guaranteed in this digital world on the basis of the right to freedom, we should not interfere further as politicians. but the reality is different now. freedom of expression on social media platforms is under attack. some social media platform oligopolies even set the rules in their terms and conditions for how to organize the formation of will. i'm not just thinking about the trump account; i think of the many accounts that have been blocked accordingly, by users who are made almost impossible to understand in any way the blocking, the blocking, the greylisting, the shadow banning and to defend against these practices. we as the european parliament must set the rules in the forthcoming digital markets act and the digital services act to guarantee freedom of expression on social media platforms for our citizens accordingly, because it is about the restriction of civil liberties. and the decision on which freedoms are to be restricted is a decision for parliament!
i have to say, madam president, i thought i was going to die. with these words, u.s. congresswoman alexandria ocasio-cortez describes her fears during the terrorist attack on the u.s. capitol. it would be too easy to say now that social media platforms are solely responsible for the division of our societies. but part of the truth is that the business models of big tech companies like facebook are creating the breeding ground for hate and violence. we've lost control of big tech, and it's high time we got it back. in a democracy, it is parliament that must set the rules, not big digital corporations. google has a market share of over 90% in the eu. our democracy and our economic system are broken when a few corporations dominate our communications and markets. the rights of consumers are being weakened and small businesses are dying. we must democratize the business models of big tech and we must not shy away from the break-up of big corporations. let's get started now.
i have to say, madam president, authoritarian governments block or censor social media. platforms delete content based on unclear house rules or government demands. whether it's through policy or terms and conditions, blocks require algorithms and artificial intelligence to identify content. when we talk about democratic regulation of social media, we also have to talk about what tools we allow and who can control them. the decision on what is legal or illegal should not be left to companies. upload filters and excessive deletion incentives threaten free speech by overblocking. artificial intelligence needs to give people opportunities, not take away freedoms. for this, a legal framework must look at the application, not the technology itself. the proposed regulation of artificial intelligence must protect our fundamental rights. the restriction of freedom through technological progress would be the greatest setback for our society and a dangerous weapon in the hands of authoritarian regimes.
it’s an important topic so we are very happy that you really discussed it with us.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the capital markets recovery package: mifid and eu reconstruction prospectus with the report by mr markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu as regards information requirements, product monitoring and position limits to promote economic recovery from the covid-19 pandemic (com ((2020) 0280 c9-0210/2020 2020/0152 ((cod)) (a9-0208/2020) and the report by mr ondřej kovařík, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2017/1129 as regards eu reconstruction and targeted financial intermediary support for economic recovery from the covid-19 pandemic (com ((2020) 02280)) (com (2020) 0281 (cod)) (com (2020) 0229 (cod)) (com (2020) 0281 (cod)) (com (2020/090) 0229 (cod)). i would remind you again that there are no spontaneous speeches or blue cards in the debates of this assembly. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget.
we are really happy to have commissioner mcguinness once more in our house. you have the floor.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. following the 2008 financial crisis and trillion-dollar bailouts of banks and financial jugglers, disclosure and reporting requirements for the financial sector were increased a concession to general outrage over the socialization of private losses without recourse to private gains. the result: hecatombs of paper and higher fees for investors. as a result of disproportionate lockdowns in response to a mild epidemic that quickly gripped east asia but is overwhelming the eu, the eu is currently experiencing the largest peacetime economic downturn. the answer: this house votes for 750 billion in illegal eu debt and a climate change bailout and more migration -- about as much of a benefit to development as irrigating the sahara. but the desert is growing and thirsting for private investment. to make this happen, disclosure requirements are now being relaxed again, because the green deal takes precedence over stability. either disclosure and transparency stabilize markets or they inhibit investment and business. either that or not. you don't know it yourself, and what you're doing here is going to fail because the money isn't going to the future industries, but to world-saving projects and dream dances.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, from the beginning, when this package was presented, we from the green group said very clearly that we would be open to discussing any measure that was justified in the context of the covid-19 crisis that required retouching financial legislation, but that we would not tolerate covid-19 being used as an excuse to retouch some essential pieces of our financial protection. and with the package that is being presented today we have the counter-example of what is a justified reform and what is not. we are going to support the reform of the brochure: first, because it is limited in time; second, because it is perfectly framed in the covid-19 crisis: we make a new brochure specifically for recovery, adding new information related to covid-19, such as, for example, if that company has received state aid that's going to be, and therefore, for us, it is perfectly justified and will receive our support. but we cannot agree with the refinement of mifid; we are still not convinced that this is necessary: firstly, as the commissioner has said, because, although the directive says that before we carry out a review we need an impact assessment, we do not have that impact assessment yet; and secondly also because, as regards the argument of liquidity in emerging energy markets, we have not been sufficiently explained why this is necessary; and, in any case, if it were, we could well wait for the overall revision of mifid that we have to do in a few months to be able to tackle this debate which is very delicate, because energy markets are extremely volatile and have effects not only on energy markets but also, depending on how prices develop, on other markets such as food. so that second reform is not justified, and the green group will not support it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, financial markets can contribute a lot to overcoming the economic impact of the covid pandemic. i therefore welcome the commission’s swift action to propose targeted amendments to mifid ii and the prospectus directive, and also congratulate the rapporteurs mr ferber and mr kovařík for their work. to recover from the unprecedented health crisis, companies desperately need access to capital. our regulatory framework should therefore enable, and not hinder, financial markets to contribute to the recovery. it is indeed appropriate to reduce costs and administrative burdens where this is possible, without putting in danger market integrity and investor protection. the capital markets union, madam commissioner, is crucial for rebuilding the eu’s economy after coronavirus. it is also crucial for the long—term sustainability of our monetary union, and it is also very important for increasing efficient absorption of risks within the monetary union. so i really would ask you to speed up the work on this capital markets union. it is in all our interests.
madam president, as one of the shadow rapporteurs for the prospectus directive, i think that we are striking a very good balance between consumer protection and easing the possibility for companies, smes included, to collect desperately needed capital in the aftermath of the covid—19 outbreak. i would repeat the point of informing investors about the impacts of covid—19, on the information given. but we need to see that even though it is a strong stress for our companies, it is also a strong possibility for renewable technologies, future—proof environmental and digitalisation, and innovative companies. we do need to give the possibility for these kind of companies to collect in an easier way the desperately needed capital, so that they are the future growing entities of our economy, and the ones that seek to raise our economy, employment and competitiveness in the longer term as well.
madam president, while following the path of economic and financial reforms, in the long-run we must preserve our regulatory standards and prudential rules. without abandoning them, we ought, however, to be able to adjust flexibly to crisis situations like the one we now face with covid-19. there is an urgent need to mobilise private capital, not least at sme level, in order to counter the hits that have crippled too many companies. quick temporary fixes that lighten regulatory burdens on how companies finance their operations without undermining investor protection make sense. the setting-up of an eu recovery prospectus until december 2022, in the framework of the capital markets’ recovery package, is one such quick fix. it should incentivise issuers and investors and help to inject new liquidity in businesses, for drawing up an investment prospectus can be expensive, which might deter issuers from seeking to raise new funds. by lowering this expense, the eu recovery prospectus makes new investment less onerous. provided issuers of shares already are admitted to trading on a regulated market, or investing in a growth with market continuously for at least the last 18 months, the condensed disclosure requirements in the prospectus should now reduce launch costs and make the document easier to read. correspondingly, limited to the recovery phase, an offer of such securities is, under certain conditions, not subject to the obligation of publishing a prospectus. the threshold has been doubled to eur 150 million to allow more offers to be exempted. the eu recovery prospectus will carry minimum essential information for secondary issuance of shares. however, it would also need to have an additional concrete reference to the impact of the covid-19 on the business of the issuer. it must explicitly inform potential investors of how the businesses concerned by the issuance have been affected by covid-19. with these simplified features, approval of the recovery prospectus should be possible more quickly, for investment speed is of the essence in the recovery. it was encouraging to note the strong political will for this project to succeed shown by all members of the council, the commission and not least, most sides... (president cut-off the speaker)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. everything we're talking about here today has a lot to do with the financial crisis of 2008. we remember that us banks bundled real estate into securities, sold them to europe - the securities were toxic, so to speak. this led to a gigantic financial market crisis of about three trillion euros. the result is that out of panic, which was absolutely right, we started to regulate the financial markets as a whole in all areas. what has now emerged is that it is overregulation, which leads to substantial fixed costs. these substantial fixed costs are causing more and more banks and financial service providers that are still advising the customer to merge and disappear from the market. more and more brokerage firms, which only provide financial products and loans by clicking, are growing out of the internet. our aim must be to have as much personal advice as possible in the financial market sector, and this can only be achieved by reducing these fixed costs and by enabling the volksbanken and sparkassen in germany to provide financial services as a stable anchor for europe as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, mr ferber, is right. mifid has always been a regulatory monster that has not bothered the big banks and corporations as much as the small and medium-sized economy. a quarter of all companies reported that they were unable to find the right form to meet the requirements. the german presidency has therefore always been critical of mifid, and brexit and covid are now forcing us to deregulate. we would have liked to see a more courageous deregulation, and we must acknowledge that the rapporteur would have been a little discouraged, even though the majority in this house was in favour. we shall nevertheless agree, because we prefer the bird in the hand to the pigeon on the roof, and we are particularly pleased that the position limitation regulation for industrial commodity derivatives can be reduced - that is what the german and european small and mediumsized industries need. we shall therefore vote in favour, but we must not stop there. the economy in the eurozone needs less left-wing over-regulation and more trust and more freedoms, and that creates prosperity.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. given the list of speakers, it seems an affront to speak as a man on the subject of women's rights. i'm doing it anyway. women often complain of a lack of freedom to choose between family and career, because it is really difficult to reconcile the two. we must therefore support this freedom of choice. by the way, men like to tell you how many children they have. women don't. why would you do that? you shouldn't be ashamed of your motherhood. twenty-five years after beijing, we should go back to what was really decided there: that gender means nothing but male and female in the social sphere. if you, ladies and gentlemen, who are interested in gender issues, really want to fight for women's rights, then you simply have to take care of the 99% of women who wake up in the morning knowing that they are women and who do not want to choose one of the 66 genders. just accept the biological differences between men and women and stop messing with the creator's work.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 25 years after the beijing declaration, the european parliament adopted last month the report on the strategy for equality between women and men. this report advocates strategic objectives to strengthen women's rights and gender equality. there are many challenges. inequality persists, particularly in the economic sphere. women are more likely to live in precarious conditions. this is reflected in particular in greater pay gaps, precarious employment or unpaid domestic work, and the low participation and representation of women in key positions and political positions. we greens call for an intersectional and inclusive approach to the gender dimension, a stronger link between the fight against climate change and equality policies and the establishment of a strategy to combat the feminization of poverty. the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated inequalities, domestic violence, sexual harassment, forced prostitution, female genital mutilation, cyber-harassment and has served as an excuse for some member states to restrict sexual and reproductive rights. we are convinced that to eliminate this scourge, all member states must respect and ratify the istanbul convention.
mr president, i’m standing on the shoulders of giants today. twenty—five years ago, the beijing declaration imagined a world in which women and girls could enjoy equal rights and enjoy fully human rights in all fields of life. but isn’t it strange that something as natural as this sounds like utopia today. just one example: we may have doubled the number of women in parliament in the last 25 years, but 90% of heads of governments are still men, and many of these 90% actually behave as if women fighting for parity were a threat to security. well, if you are used to male privilege for centuries, equality may feel like discrimination. but let me tell you something, guys – it’s not. it is just women asking for their fair share and, believe me, we will continue to do so and we may even be a bit more vocal and a bit more assertive in the next 25 years. so you may do better just to join us in that fight!
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, - i'm not going anywhere. the fact that we greens are opposed to the commissioning of a nuclear power plant should not be surprising here. but the rejection of astravez does not have anything to do with ideological delusion, but with hard facts, unresolved security issues and a great deal of responsibility. the site is risky. scientists had warned that the facility was located in a tectonically active zone with earthquake risk. violations of international conventions, reports of numerous deficiencies, unresolved safety problems, repeatedly postponed inspections, unfinished work for a nuclear waste repository. all this clearly speaks against the commissioning. in order to quickly connect his prestigious facility to the internet, lukashenko wants to expose his own population and those of neighboring countries, especially lithuania, to the risk of a nuclear super-wave. he even takes the risk of bankruptcy. the nuclear power plant, which is 90% financed by russian loans, not only increases the country's financial dependence on russia, but lukashenko is making belarus a defenseless, blackmailed vassal state. and if that were not tragic enough, there is also no added value for the country itself. the eu's neighbours do not want to reduce the electricity surpluses. this is a major revenue shortfall. the money is again lacking for the transition to electricity for mobility and heat generation. the costly energy independence of nuclear power will severely limit the scope for future generations to switch to renewable sources in the interests of a sustainable energy foreign policy. we are of course concerned first and foremost with nuclear safety - and that of our neighbours. there's no room for compromise. nuclear safety is not negotiable.
madam president, commissioner simon, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen at home on the screens! about two days ago, i got a message. i quote from this message, and i'm sure the sender is watching today: nuclear power plants would be safe. the best specialists in belarus will be hired. it would be internationally supervised, and it would be incomprehensible in belarus why it would be on the agenda today, because the technology would be mastered. i am sure that similar statements have been made before, at chernobyl in ukraine and also by japan, a high-tech country, about the nuclear power plants in fukushima. unfortunately, and this is obvious, there is no 100% safety in nuclear energy - there is none. and what no expert and no one in this world has control over is natural disasters. it is therefore logical that after the fukushima disaster more and more countries have come together internationally to take action against nuclear power. that is why it is logical that we are doing everything we can to prevent this nuclear power plant in belarus. this danger to all life from nuclear power stations is not only a danger to lithuania's border, but it is also a danger to us here in germany or to the german population. we are also threatened, whether it is the tihange nuclear power station in belgium or fessenheim in france, on the border with rhineland-palatinate. i would like to ask you to take a stand, to be reasonable, to say goodbye to nuclear energy and to do everything possible to prevent another nuclear power plant from going down.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. it's a bit like a déjà vu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the astravez reactor is just 20 kilometres from the lithuanian border. this plant was built without the participation of citizens, without environmental organizations. this is a clear breach of the espoo convention, and it has been confirmed. the funding comes through very strange channels. we know there's a russian loan. in other words, the original aim of reducing belarus' dependence on russia with this reactor has been reversed. this addiction has grown. and there are very big security concerns. in a piquant way, mr. lukashenko said at the inauguration of the plant, well, if he had learned so much from all the mistakes that happened during the construction, he would like to build another one to do it better this time. i don't find that comforting. and i find it particularly unsettling that only this week - after months of pressure and blockade by belarus - experts from the european union were able to travel to belarus to inspect the plant. the report is not expected for a few months. and what we're asking for is a preliminary report so that we know what we're dealing with. we are also calling on the international atomic energy agency to look very closely at this construction to avoid any danger to eu citizens.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. prominent cases such as that of paul rusesabagina and the singer kizito mihigo, found dead in custody, are only visible signs of a political landscape in which political and civil liberties and judicial independence are under the greatest pressure. it is therefore important that we, as the european parliament, continue to make clear our demand that international standards be respected in the judicial process in rwanda, and that we make clear our demand that politically motivated prosecutions be stopped. this includes ending the disappearance or death in custody of government critics and human rights defenders and providing independent investigations. and of course, repression of our own citizens in the diaspora in other countries must be clearly condemned, stopped and addressed. but this process has a background: the struggle for the supremacy of interpretation over the history of genocide and the state doctrine of an increasingly authoritarian president in rwanda. and of course there's the fear that the shadows of the past might come back to haunt the country. the debate on rwanda's history and future must, however, be non-violent and democratic. the european commission and the member states must ensure that cooperation with rwanda is in line with universal fundamental rights and that no means are used to torpedo these basic rights. and that also means that the economic agreements that currently exist must include enforceable provisions in the areas of human rights and sustainable development. the rusesabagina case can also be seen as a moment to take a new path, one that is urgently needed. if we are talking about the 60% of people who were born after the terrible genocide, then that means many thousands of times more hope for the country beyond violence and repression. this is the only way rwanda can be a partner for europe.
author. – madam president, 30 years ago, when kazakhstan, the last remaining soviet republic, declared independence and effectively ended the union, hope was high that the new republic would embrace democracy and build an effective statehood. hope was high that the people of kazakhstan, who had suffered on the nuclear site at semipalatinsk, would now be granted fundamental rights and a chance for a dignified life. all these hopes were crushed by 30 years of nazarbayev’s dictatorship. not a single fair election was held under his rule, corruption flourished, freedom of speech was severely restricted, the opposition imprisoned, mine workers’ protests brutally suppressed and journalists terrorised and murdered. now nazarbayev’s successor has promised to do a better job at controlled democratisation . at first glance, party registration has been simplified, participation and protests partially allowed, the death penalty was recently abolished and regions were given a bit more self—governance. yet the recent deterioration of human rights calls into question the real efforts of the new president. the key osce recommendations were ignored during the last parliamentary elections, censorship was tightened and internet surveillance reached a dystopian level. hundreds of peaceful protesters were illegally detained, and the practice of harassing, assaulting and arresting journalists was continued. women and girls still suffer greatly, despite the introduction of mandatory quotas on electoral lists, not to speak of the terrible situation for women in detention centres. the government cracked down on the civil sector, trade unions and human rights organisations. prisoners are still being tortured and the number of political prisoners has started to rise again. the eu is based on the respect for fundamental rights and principles. therefore, economic cooperation with kazakhstan, which has huge potential, can only be advanced on condition of respecting our fundamental values. human rights are not for sale.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are witnessing a new attempt to develop a country which is being taught and schooled by europe. kazakhstan is a successful model in central asia. it's the country with the best economic performance, it's the country with the most freedoms, and it's a country that's made its way to modernity. yes, there's still a way to go. but this country does not deserve to be lectured, and it does not deserve to be lectured above all because of the lobbying of mr ablyazov, who has conducted a long list of events in this parliament alone. i have taken the trouble to have the scientific service draw up a report on the work of the open dialogue foundation here in the european parliament. all i can say is that it's obviously become fashionable for billionaires to disguise themselves as philanthropists to advance their own economic interests. mr. ablyazov is a murderer who had his predecessor as bank president killed and who subsequently embezzled 7 billion euros. he has been convicted in england, he has been prosecuted in france, and he is being courted in this parliament and his organisation is being invited. today's resolution is the result of this lobbying and is also reflected in the fact that he is mentioned by name in paragraph t of the resolution, claiming that the kazakh judiciary convicted him for political reasons, which is false: it convicted him for the murder of the previous bank president. that we stand here and think that a billionaire who says he's a philanthropist is a good person, and that we condensed a murder conviction into a political conviction, shows the entire mendacity of human rights imperialism that has become fashionable here. it's better if we focus on what kazakhstan really is, rather than what a convicted criminal wants to make of it. kazakhstan is a country with a long way to go. but it is also a developing country, from which a stable minority in germany comes, because we have about 800 000 immigrants of german origin in our country. we still have a german minority of 180,000. we have 200 german companies in kazakhstan. i can only recommend that those who feel they should condemn here should go there. "the worst worldview is that of those who have never looked at the world", humboldt once said. you'd rather believe a convicted murderer and fraudster than look at data, facts and reality. unfortunately, this fits in with the human rights imperialism and value imperialism that we practice here. but it is still shameful and one must apologize for the fact that this is supposed to be european policy these days.
madam president, actually i wanted to respond to mr krah, who just left, which is great. but last year we were in kazakhstan. exactly one year ago the delegation for central asia went to kazakhstan and we all looked at everything there and we met with officials there and we actually asked how the reforms were going. they were shown to us, and it’s great to see that there were reforms undergoing, and we support this. we want to see more of that, and we are thankful that the government is going in this direction. but at the same time, we also really had to demand a meeting with human rights defenders and with civil society, and the only place where we could actually meet them was on neutral ground, which was the eu embassy there, and that was devastating for me. we talked to them, and on the day we left, one person died in prison and others that we just talked to were imprisoned the very day we sat on the flight back. and that is the instance where we criticise in the european union the question of human rights. and, dear government of kazakhstan, if you want us to not publish resolutions like these, it’s very easy: follow human rights. one last thing i want to mention to mr mariani, mr krah, and especially mr martusciello, who is the chair of the eu delegation to kazakhstan. you are there to represent eu values, not your own personal profits.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ugandan election campaign was marked by violence and the improper arrests of mr museveni's rival, bobi wine. the excessive use of force by the police and security forces seriously undermined the electoral process. we have a responsibility not to remain silent in the face of such violence and abuse. we condemn this violence and offer our condolences to the victims. on 14 january 2021, elections were held in uganda, despite numerous reports of irregularities. the electoral commission has not been able to register more than one million young voters on the pretext of lack of material resources. she declared president museveni the outgoing president again president for a sixth term, after he had held the office for 35 years. however, the election results are difficult to verify, as the electoral commission did not follow the prescribed counting process. this is absolutely unacceptable and contrary to democratic principles. we must not once again turn a blind eye when citizens of a state are deprived of their fundamental rights and call on us for help. they are asking for outside help and our support, and we must give it to them. free and fair elections and freedom of expression and the press are a prerequisite for sustainable development. however, we would like to commend the ugandan people, especially their youth, women and girls, for the courage, enthusiasm and determination they have shown during this election campaign to defend the gains of democracy. let us not disappoint them and show them that we practice what we preach. the covid-19 pandemic should not be an excuse for the ugandan government to introduce laws that violate international law and curtail the human rights of all citizens, including lgbt people. we also expect the ugandan authorities to respect the dignity of persons and to facilitate the return of the diaspora to the fold and its participation in development.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union should stand with the democrats, should stand with freedom of expression and should stand for free and fair elections. and i thank all the colleagues who have just done so in this chamber, and especially maria arena, who has made it clear from what past the present president comes and how he has dealt with reality in order to remain in power. ladies and gentlemen, this is not democracy in uganda. and we, as the european parliament, stand with the people who have taken to the streets, with the people who are fighting for their freedom, who are fighting for democracy, who are fighting for a better future for their country. fifty of them were killed. and i do not want the european union to say at this point: we take note of the result of the elections. no, i do not wish to take note of the result of the elections, but i condemn the way in which that result has been achieved. i condemn the fact that there is a movement in uganda by a president to ensure that there are no free and fair elections. and i expect the representatives of this european union, and in particular mr borrell, to make that clear - just as we as parliamentarians do here in this european parliament. because he is the official spokesman for the european union. i would ask you to be as loud and as clear and as firm as we members of this house are with this regime in uganda, with this ruler who has been in power for far too long. and you, like us, stand up for human rights, for freedom, for free and fair elections and for democracy, not halfheartedly, but with the full enthusiasm and strength that this european union gives you, mr borrell.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am 28 years old and, at that age, i’m one of the youngest members of the european parliament but, by ugandan standards, i am quite old because uganda is one of the youngest countries in the world. i want to take a stance for this generation, for the young people in uganda. it’s this young generation that demands change, democracy, fairness and some fresh new ideas. it is this generation that was stripped of these ideals, that was stripped of justice, democracy and liberty. therefore, we must stand up for this generation and help it conquer the rights that it has. i think it is important that we take a stance, as the european union, to do so and to deliver, but i also have to give you a quote from a young man from uganda. he said, ‘the situation in uganda has reached the european parliament plenty of times, but still there is no effect here.’ i say to the commission, mr schmit and mr borrell, this is dramatic. this is something that we need to change. this is something that the commission has to deliver on because we must stand, not just with words, but with action for what we demand, and that is freedom and democracy. to the young ugandans out there, one last word to you, to this generation that has fought so bravely and so hard and so peacefully. stay strong, stay brave and continue this fight for democracy, for justice and a government that works for the people, and also for some new fresh ideas. this is not just a privilege, but this is your right.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. my dear adam koza, how nice to have you here. i'm very glad you're talking about this. a wise man once said: "show me how a society treats its disabled, and i will tell you what kind of society it is". today we mourn the death of many people, and my heart is with the bereaved. the covid-19 crisis affects us all and affects us all. nevertheless, the deaf and hearing-impaired are the focus of attention today. according to the who, about 6% of the world's population has a hearing impairment, which is over 400 million people today. i can also mention a few figures from my home country of germany: around 20% of germans are hard of hearing, that is 16 million - a large number - and 80,000 people are completely deaf. another 140 000 have a degree of severe disability of at least 70%, which means that they also rely on sign language interpreters. we must all be clear: the deaf and hard of hearing are particularly affected by the covid-19 crisis and lockdown measures. and we see this when we see how deaf people communicate with each other. they use the tools at their disposal, such as lip-reading and facial recognition. without these tools, they can hardly relate to and communicate with other humans. and this is even more true for children and adolescents. thank god there are excellent schools for them, where they can be taught - with the help of technical means - in almost normal conditions. but if these children and their teachers wear a face mask, then no sensible teaching is possible. and if we do not allow exceptions for the hearing impaired in wearing the face mask, then we are sinning against these people. we're pushing them back into their private space. we are, in effect, shutting them in, as the wise man solomon aptly described in an allegory of aging in the last chapter of ecclesiastes: "the doors of the street are shut, and the sound of the mill is hushed". and it's precisely because we know this and the devastating psychological impact that lockdown has had on people - and today the spiegel reports that one in three germans is suffering psychologically from the consequences of lockdown - and because we know that it's the hearing impaired that are particularly affected, that we need to make sure that we give each other more laughter and more joy when we meet. again, the hearing impaired cannot hear the laughter, and they cannot see it behind a mask. are we seriously going to exclude them completely? maybe you don't remember? laughter makes you happy, laughter inhibits stress hormones, laughter relieves tension and stress, and through laughter, the body releases the happiness hormone serotonin. if we force hearing-impaired people behind opaque masks, we rob them of fun and lightness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. we released over 650 billion euros yesterday for a building and resilience facility. this is to mitigate or eliminate the consequences of the covid-19 crisis as much as possible. the suffering and needs of the hearing impaired are obvious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you want to hide behind the rules when it comes to helping these people in need? but how can you help? quite simply, change your rules and your definition of what a face mask is, and allow for greater freedom for hearing-impaired people to use masks. not all of us are able to overcome our deafness with the seemingly inhumane effort of beethoven and to give ourselves the "ode to joy" despite our disability. so let us show more consideration for the weak in our society, let us give them a voice and let us make them heard and let us no longer hide behind our rules. the deaf need our help now. so i'm going to end by asking you again: how do we treat our deaf? are we a society that cares about its disabled?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into detail. yesterday we were discussing vaccination strategies and the consequences for people with pre-existing conditions and disabilities. i called on the commission to create more production capacity and more vaccine, to act faster and to postpone political blame games. i'm here today to speak specifically for deaf people. masks are a barrier to communication. at the beginning of covid-19, it was a big problem for deaf people to get up-to-date information through tv news one-on-one, because there was no one-on-one sign language interpretation. you're using this barrier to isolate deaf people. this can't happen. people with disabilities also have the right to communicate, which is being taken away from them. these possibilities, and in particular the european centre for disease prevention and control, must play a role in the search for alternatives to overcome these communication barriers. i have already mentioned the sign language interpreters and the voice interpreters, who play an important role, for example, in the appointments at vaccination centres and in the escort to vaccination centres. the commission has also proposed that the use of the masks be restricted to the use of the face shields, which are not covered by the directive. we need clear guidelines for all member states. we cannot be responsible for isolating many millions of deaf people and cutting off communication until there is a comprehensive vaccination strategy that allows them to communicate again with people around them without barriers.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, what we are seeing unfold in tigray is a terrible humanitarian crisis. the numbers are staggering. there are 4.5 million persons in need of humanitarian assistance, ten thousands are at severe risk of starvation, hundreds of thousands of refugees are caught in the crossfire. fifty-eight thousand refugees have fled to nearby sudan, and there are reports of atrocities against thousands of civilians. after three months, ethiopia ended its military operation but the aftershock will be felt for years to come, and not only in ethiopia. already before the military skirmish, tigray was a host region to hundreds of thousands of refugees, spread over four camps, with millions who were already in need of humanitarian assistance, as already mentioned by the commissioner, and this conflict has only exacerbated the situation. already before the military skirmish, the horn of africa was known as a delicate region, now this conflict risks spilling over into neighbouring countries and destabilising the entire region. the exact numbers of those in humanitarian need remain difficult to predict, because promises to restore communications have not been fully met. humanitarian aid workers and organisations are still denied access to tigray, cutting off millions from aid. unverified reports of atrocities and impunity are rampant, and there are conflict reports of foreign interference by eritrean troops. action is needed immediately. now that millions more require humanitarian assistance, the international community and the federal government must urgently find a peaceful end to this conflict and step up their commitment to the responsibility to protect the most vulnerable. signing of the memorandum of understanding with the united nations by prime minister abiy was an important first step but, however, key humanitarian aid organisations are still being barred from entering the region, especially in areas of conflict. and i reiterate what has been just said by the commissioner: they have to access those people in order to help directly and not only through the ethiopian authorities. it’s exactly in these regions that humanitarian aid is needed the most. the federal government must now stick to its commitments. first, accelerate creating unconditional and unhindered access for humanitarian aid workers. second, establish secure humanitarian corridors. and thirdly, work with humanitarian aid organisations to establish a clear estimate of who is in need of aid. i think that the decision of the commission to allocate eur 70 million to the sudanese government is a good decision because this helps in this difficult situation. but i agree with the commissioner that more improvement is needed. meine damen und herren, die lage in äthiopien spitzt sich zu, und ich glaube, dass jetzt der zeitpunkt gekommen ist, dass wir die äthiopische regierung aufrufen, dass wir den hilfsorganisationen direkten zugang in der region geben. denn die menschen dort in der region können nicht alleine von der äthiopischen regierung unterstützt werden, sondern sie brauchen die internationale hilfe, die hilfe der gemeinschaft. ich bin stolz darauf, dass die europäische union hier nicht nur eine starke sprache verwendet, sondern an dieser stelle auch geld in die hand nimmt, um zu helfen. ich glaube, dass diese hilfe angebracht ist, denn wir haben schon viel zu lange zugesehen und die äthiopische regierung machen lassen. es ist jetzt zeit, nicht länger nur zuzusehen, sondern eine klare sprache im dialog anzuschlagen und dafür zu sorgen, dass die humanitäre krise sich nicht weiter ausbreitet, sondern eingedämmt werden kann.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the end of last year we have been watching with concern the political and social situation in ethiopia, but i would like to take a moment to reflect on the recent confrontations and put them in the wider context, that is to say, in a period of permanent conflict and very historically charged. of course, the ethiopian government must take its share of responsibility for the current situation in the country, but we also remember that the european union pledged its support to this government, which promised to introduce reforms, not based solely on ethnicity and taking into account the gender dimension. here in the european parliament a few years ago we again denounced the human rights abuses and incidents of the tigray people's liberation front party which was in power in ethiopia from 1991 to 2018. ethiopia is an important partner for the european union and plays a major role in the region. the european union can play a positive and non-paternalistic role as a partner of ethiopia, but have we used all the instruments available to us to restore peace in the region? the commission decided to suspend or rather postpone budget support to ethiopia, on the basis of the events in the tigray region. why not invoke article 96 of the cotonou agreement, which provides for a clear procedure in cases of human rights violations before any action against ethiopia is considered? and what legal basis is there for this decision to suspend aid, which is thus akin to a sanction against the ethiopian government? we have a vested interest in developing a new sensitivity to the complexity of this conflict in order to improve the situation of the most vulnerable, refugees, women, children and any other group of people affected by this conflict. only at this price will the eu's humanitarian action have a lasting and appropriate positive effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation is really difficult to bear. if you look at this, five million people live in the tigray region. four and a half million people now depend on aid, and large parts of the region are on the brink of famine. since november 2020, more than 52,000 civilians have been killed in the region, and there are reports of war crimes. many of the eritrean refugees in the region who are housed in camps have fled indefinite national service in eritrea. it is a cruel practice that the united nations has declared a crime against humanity. now two refugee camps have been completely destroyed, as confirmed by satellite images. the un has no access to these camps, and there is still no answer: where are the 20,000 people who have disappeared there? it is right that the european union is mediating in the region. there are many questions. we need independent information on the question: what is eritrea's role in the region? was there an offer by prime minister abiy to eritrea to pay money for conscripts to commit war crimes? who is responsible for these crimes? how can those responsible be held accountable? how can we ensure that humanitarian aid arrives on the ground and that media representatives have access? these are important questions. but if the mediation of the european union, the european commission, is to be successful, then we also need a coordinated approach with the member states. it would be hard to tolerate the european commission taking measures which are then ignored by member states such as germany. it is therefore important that we should be able to decide on a joint approach, not only with the commission but also with the council, also under the leadership of the council presidency, and to achieve rapid improvement in the situation on the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the views on this dramatic conflict could hardly be more different. the eu, unhcr and the red cross are issuing a warning to the ethiopian government and offering assistance to the four million people in need. the eu's statements are dismissed as unrealistic and its own efforts to deal with the humanitarian situation are highlighted. this seems grotesque, if not cynical, in the eyes of those affected. because the war in the tigray region has not stopped yet. estimates put the number of refugees in neighbouring sudan at up to 60,000. two refugee camps in northern tigray have recently been closed. the eritrean refugees were no longer safe there. that is why we need an end to the fighting and, with it, security for the people and immediate and full humanitarian access to the region. another threatening component of this conflict is the security implications for the horn of africa as a whole. prime minister abiy ahmed still seems to view this conflict as manageable and purely an internal matter. the situation is becoming more and more complex. eritrean troops are fighting in the tigray region - with the approval of the ethiopian government, but apparently not under its control. there are voices that suggest a possible occupation of tigray. this would have unforeseeable consequences for the state of ethiopia as such. the eu's call for eritrea to withdraw from this conflict remains essential. at the same time, tensions are rising between sudan and ethiopia, border disputes are flaring up again, and the first military clashes are claiming lives. this can't be the way to the future. the european union must make every effort to minimise and stop the flow of arms and war material and to mediate here. if fragile sudan and an increasingly destabilised ethiopia were to fall on each other's heels, the efforts and achievements of recent years would be immediately undone. this is not in the interest of the people there or in the interest of europe, because africa and the eu had more in common.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of enterprise has always been the foundation of our prosperity. the extent to which this principle is being exploited is nowhere more evident than in the cbam mechanism. first, the same and not always green climate apocalypticists distort the market with subsidies and bans so much that hundreds of thousands of workers have to worry about their jobs, that our companies are deprived of their competitiveness and competitiveness - even more so in their own market - and then these same politicians in turn present themselves as great saviors by practicing a protectionism that they have previously condemned in others. our companies wouldn't need protection at all if they weren't threatened by their own politicians. ladies and gentlemen, just like socialism, every single element of the green deal is not a little bit right, but always completely wrong. at least until we address global problems with global solutions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe lives on industry, on the good unionised jobs in industry, and the jobs we want to preserve. but that's only if we change. every job in industry must become a climate job, so climate neutral. and so far, little has been done. while emissions in the energy sector are falling, there is no progress in industry. and there's a reason for that: the free allocation of allowances. we need the right conditions now for the industrial revolution of decarbonisation to take place in europe. and for that, the green passes for climate pollution must end. that would be the first step. the second would be a carbon price of over 150 euros by 2030, coupled with the co2 cap. this is how we ensure that decarbonisation is economically viable in europe and the world. clean and climate-friendly business is rewarded. this is the big step we need in climate policy now.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu's court of auditors complains that tax reporting obligations cost governments and businesses hundreds of millions of euros a year, yet the information is hardly used. ergo: thanks to six eu directives, cooperation is expensive and the results are limited. what is the green rapporteur asking for in parliament? amazon and other coronavirus profiteers are right not to avoid taxes at will. but he does not want to accept that this is also a consequence of the eu's internal market. he also calls for 'the widest possible exchange of information' rather than just in justified cases and a level playing field, i.e. uniform eu taxes. let's be honest: it's not about better cooperation, but about ever higher taxes and perfect citizen control to finance the euro, climate rescue and migration - not investments, but leftist statehood that devours hundreds of billions annually. eu citizens already pay the highest taxes, we have the lowest growth rate in the world, we are rapidly losing competitiveness, and we are the world champions in debt. we too are against tax evasion and the draining of tax havens. but please, on the basis of the rule of law and reality, not leftist state disregard for privacy and data protection.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. there is a very high probability that the cocoa beans for this chocolate were made by children's hands and paid a starvation wage for it. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. but they often don't know where the jeans came from, what's behind the candy bar, or where the leather bag came from. for years, voluntary work was used in enterprises, but with little effect. the european parliament now has the opportunity to make history. a story about decent working conditions, about companies taking responsibility along the entire supply chain, and about an end to impunity in factory fires or chemical accidents. if we really want to make globalisation fair and just - and we politicians always say this in our sunday speeches - then we need far-reaching legal rules for the care of human rights in the economy. and that is what the parliament's report suggests. i am particularly pleased that my call for an additional ban on the import of products of forced labour has been included in the report. and now the commission is in charge.
i have to say, madam president, entrepreneurship is responsibility. no businessman, no businesswoman, can care whether there is forced labour or child labour in their own supply chains. and yet they exist. globalisation also means globalisation of responsibility. a supply chain law needs to make it easier for companies to comply with their human rights due diligence. a monster of bureaucracy does not protect human rights. that is why a german going it alone is also a mistake. it is a threat to the common market and creates uncertainty in the face of eu rules. a supply chain law has to start where it's needed. it is therefore good that parliament is taking the sectoral, risk and size-based approach. with company size and sensitive industry comes responsibility. but mr reynders, the commission would be making it too easy on itself if it delegated the protection of human rights only to companies. i expect clear statements and political action against systematic human rights violators like china. a european supply chain law can and should only be one building block.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you again for all your contributions to the debate this evening. the european union, as you know, has an ambitious sustainability agenda. this is the case with the commission led by president ursula von der leyen, through the european green pact which we adopted at the beginning of our mandate, but it is also the case, as i have observed on many occasions, with your parliament. and to make real progress in implementing our social, environmental and human rights commitments, it is essential to use all the policies at our disposal, from trade to development, but it is also essential to promote stronger corporate governance. sustainable corporate governance is a major element, it is an opportunity for everyone, including the business world. and the duty of vigilance is a key element in this. so the new framework we want to put in place will benefit the whole economy, even beyond our borders, as many have said tonight. the commission will include a number of options in its horizontal proposal. in choosing the scope, many have noted their particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, but also taking into account the notion of risk. the choice of transparency to organise the publication of undertakings made by companies. the choice of civil liability or administrative supervision, such as the right of victims, will also have to be taken into account in our proposal. and then, of course, the choice of a duty of vigilance, probably along the whole supply chain if, as i heard from many speakers, we want to be able to fight against child labour or forced labour which is often quite far down the supply chain. so we are going to work on this proposal, which of course concerns all companies not only directly present in the european union but also coming to work in the european union, even if they come from third countries. and i am of course looking forward to continuing our discussions on this in the coming months, i hope not in the coming years because i would really like to see the ambitious proposal we are going to put forward adopted within a reasonable time. in any case, i can assure you again of the commission's commitment and my personal commitment to this matter.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 9 march 2021. the final vote will then follow on wednesday, 10 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i agree with the main idea of the report that business standards in europe should be responsible and that companies should avoid doing harm to people and the planet. however, the proposed administrative burden for small enterprises is disproportionate and it is doubtful whether it is still correct to delegate substantive state obligations to private enterprises. any new binding rules should not affect smes or at least be adapted to their needs. the single new rulebook must be proportionate and realistic in terms of what companies can and will do without these new rules jeopardising the competitiveness of european companies in the world.
in writing. it goes without saying that every company has a legal duty of care in financial matters. however, at present, the impact of companies on climate change is even greater and more serious than their economic impact. it is therefore important to extend the duty of care to the direct and indirect impacts of companies on the environment, biodiversity and climate change, and to assess both their social responsibilities and their governance. in the corporate world, the term esg (environmental, social, governance) is often used to describe sustainability and most companies are already using esg criteria to assess their activities. it is therefore justified to extend the esg criteria to include the duty of care, as it is still relatively cost-effective for companies to anticipate and avoid the risks posed by their activities at this stage as climate change progresses. in addition, companies with minimised esg risks will be of interest to investors in the future. the esg measurement is therefore at least as important as financial prudence and therefore its reporting and monitoring must be consistent with financial prudence.
in writing. the protection of human rights, the environment and good corporate governance are important eu priorities that must also be reflected in economic life. however, the measures we take to achieve this must be proportionate and targeted, preserving the competitiveness of eu companies. the 24 million smes operating in the eu are the backbone of the eu economy. before the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic, they generated more than half of the eu's gdp and employed around 100 million people. in the current epidemic situation, it is irresponsible to burden european companies with new regulations and to expect them to check each other on human rights, environmental standards and good corporate governance. in my view, this is not the business's responsibility, but the authorities' responsibility. at the expense of competitiveness, the proposal calls for companies to develop their own business policies with the involvement of ngos and activists, based on their input, rather than their owners, shareholders, employees and, in general, market needs, to make their economic and business decisions. parliament's proposal was not preceded by any impact assessment and therefore contains a number of provisions which are legally unenforceable. it is of the utmost importance that the commission's legislative proposal be preceded by a detailed and thorough impact assessment, in particular of the situation and competitiveness of european enterprises. we must stand up for europe's small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the key to sustainable and long-term economic growth in the union.
in writing. there is broad agreement in parliament on the need for mandatory eu-level corporate responsibility legislation. i also support the introduction of such legislation itself, provided that certain conditions are met. in previous votes parliament has also reaffirmed its objective of reducing the administrative burden. the eu commission has also made a similar commitment. when new legislation is done correctly, the right balance can be found between these objectives. the juri committee's draft regulation unfortunately does not strike that balance, since the regulation is directed both directly and indirectly at smes, which have virtually no connection with the problems underlying the regulation. we therefore made a number of amendments with a number of colleagues from four different political groups, with the aim of clarifying the scope of the proposed legislation. smes should be excluded from the scope entirely and the definition of high-risk sectors and large enterprises should be clarified. the proposed legislation should also clearly prohibit the contractual transfer of liabilities to subcontractors. the message is also addressed to the commission: more attention must be paid to the administrative burden and the position of smes when the legislative proposal is being prepared.
the next item is the report by mr christian doleschal, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the implementation of regulation (eu) no 305/2011 laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products (construction products regulation) (2020/2028 (ini)) (a9-0012/20219). i would remind you again that no spontaneous messages or cards are accepted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the single market is undoubtedly one of the most important achievements of our european integration. it is a pillar of the european union. one industry that is particularly benefiting from this is certainly the construction sector. over 18 million people are employed in this sector across europe, most of them cross-border. the need for uniform rules and requirements for the smooth movement of goods is therefore all the greater. since july 2013, the rules of the construction products regulation have been applied. it lays down harmonised standards for the ce marking of construction products and the procedure for drawing up a declaration of performance with regard to their essential characteristics. this system of technical regulation and standardisation has proved to be a major catalyst for competitiveness and innovation. but for some years now, this system has been going haywire. of the 444 standards, only 12 have been published in the official journal in the last four years. since december 2018, no harmonised standard has been published. this deadlock is due, among other things, to formal requirements, in particular the interpretation of the cjeu judgment in the james elliot case. the consequences of the non-publication of standards are fatal. the lack of publication of standards is not keeping pace with developments in the construction sector. technology is evolving. the need for regulation is increasing. legal uncertainty for companies, builders, planners and architects is growing. it is against this background that we must give back to the companies planning and legal certainty. in our report we therefore propose: in addition to short-term solutions, long-term solutions should be sought to revise the construction products regulation. we propose a combination of measures to eliminate the backlog of unpublished standards and long-term solutions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we want to involve stakeholders more closely in all stages of the development of standards. we need workable solutions and we need to ensure that the standardisation mandates given by the commission follow clear and pragmatic guidelines. we must also ensure that there are alternative methods of standardisation, such as eota, at least for the moment of the transition. we need a clear definition of the ce mark. unfortunately, the ce marking for construction products is still often misunderstood as a seal of quality, even though it does not indicate whether a construction product is safe or can be used on every construction site. we should be making this clear to the end user. the commission has also proposed a revision of the construction products regulation. digital technologies such as the smart declaration of performance have a huge potential to provide rapid, transparent and reliable information. the construction sector is one of the least digitised sectors and this despite its great potential. for example, digital tools could help us avoid duplication of information on construction products. the revised construction products regulation could provide the appropriate legal framework for this. we want to increase the surveillance of construction products. the enforcement of harmonisation rules by national market surveillance authorities should be as uniform as possible. we therefore call on the commission to adopt implementing acts in accordance with the market surveillance regulation without delay. we need to ensure that the entire construction sector is on a level playing field, including for construction products that are offered online or that come to us from third countries. we must not compromise: it is not just about product safety, but also about fair competition! finally, we must ensure that the construction products regulation is made fit for the future. buildings and infrastructure are a major man-made resource. we therefore welcome the fact that the commission has already announced in various initiatives and action plans that it will make the building sector more sustainable overall. the procurement, manufacture and use of construction products in buildings must undergo a sustainable transition overall. this should be assessed on a product-category-by-product basis. we should avoid a rise in the price of construction products. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the question of the construction products regulation. perhaps we can do that in the debate. i ask for support for this very important report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 10 march 2021.
the next item is the report by mrs katrin langensiepen, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the implementation of council directive 2000/78/ec establishing a general framework for the attainment of equal treatment in employment and occupation, taking into account the uncrc (2020/2086 ((ini)) (a9-0014/2021).
the rapporteur. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. today we are voting on my report 'establishing a general framework for the implementation of equal treatment in employment and occupation, taking into account the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities', which was adopted by the social committee with 47 votes in favour, i.e. an overwhelming majority. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the house and the advisers for the excellent cooperation they have shown - here, across the political groups. the report's structure also gave me a deeper insight into what the idea of european politics can also stand for: a common cause - at best, to improve the living conditions in our common europe. but the report was not written solely by us. the report would not have been produced on this scale without the widespread support of associations and organisations that have been campaigning for the rights of people with disabilities for decades. i would like to mention here the following: autism europe, the federal employment agency for inclusion, the european blind union, the european disabled forum, the european network for self-determined living, the european union of the deaf, inclusion europe, the international federation for spina bifida and hydrocephalus, mental health europe, equinet, the academy's professors and the fundamental rights agency. thank you very much. i am also particularly pleased to be able to tell you that our report - my report - is also available to you in plain language. this is new and should become standard for all reports to ensure political participation. what's my report about? it's about us, the situation of us disabled people in the labour market, that it finally becomes inclusive and better and also on an equal footing. the situation for us disabled people is unfortunately bad. now, before we get into the statistics, a little anecdote. when i was a kid, i wanted to be a news anchor. i was going to be in front of the camera, presenting the news, and then they said, "well, you have to be realistic. someone like you with an obvious disability will never be allowed on camera. forget the dream, it's like flying to the moon. i was offered a place at a training center. that was about 50 euros a month, no going out after 10 p.m., and i was allowed to go home once a month. i didn't have a lawyer. i was a free man, 18 years old, why these restrictions on freedom? and i said no. the management of this institution was angry because they were losing their funding and they were saying, "i'll never find a job in the free market". and like me, many young people with disabilities today are being told clearly where the road is going, to the workshop and to the institution. in germany in particular, the structures of workshops are neither inclusive nor preparing them for the regular labour market, which is what their job is to do. the workshop should not be a permanent solution but should actually provide the transition to the first labour market. so we need to create the right conditions for an inclusive labour market. with education, government support for appropriate arrangements and visibility from us disabled people, work in diversity is possible. the political will to invest in this is what counts here. in the last century, workshops, facilities, closed, protected spaces might have had a mandate. but we're in 2021, and we need a fair, inclusive, barrier-free labor market. a few figures to illustrate: only 50.6% of disabled people are in employment, compared with 48.3% of disabled women and 53.3% of men, compared with 74.8% of non-disabled people. only 20.7% of us women with disabilities are in fulltime employment compared to 28.6% of us men with disabilities. however, these data do not reveal how many people are employed in the open labour market and how many of these are people with disabilities living in home care, where they are much less likely to be employed. what the few of you who are not disabled - and many of you - do not know is that we often do not have the status of female workers for disabled people in the workshops. we don't get paid regularly either, we get pocket money. i therefore call in my report for a clear exclusion of the establishments and workshops which are contrary to article 27 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. for this we need clear objectives and timetables for the transition. this is not an individual opinion, not a katrina opinion, it is the un convention on human rights. let me just get back to my anecdote. when journalism didn't really work out, because it wouldn't work out, i did something even crazier: i became a member of the european parliament, and that's a much better job. i am also the only woman with a visible and - i think - no one else has come forward - the only woman with a disability - visible or not - among the 705 members of this house. it can't be. so, dear member states, move along. dear parties, please diversify your activities. political participation, as stated in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, but also in the new disability strategy, is a human right. today is march 8th. we're also fighting for women's rights. so let's fight for women's rights, for human rights, for people with disabilities. let's repeal the fifth anti-discrimination directive. we need the eu guidelines on adequate provision, diversity quotas and and and. let's fight for it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about equal opportunities for people with disabilities in the labour market. this is a very important subject which is also very close to my heart. disabled people are more likely to be unemployed, more likely to be longterm unemployed, more likely to be in precarious employment, more likely to be poor and more likely to be homeless. but what does this green paper want now? how does he want to help these people? first of all, this green paper states that there are disabled people who seem to need our support more than others - for example, disabled people who are lgbti, or disabled people who are roma or refugees. all these people seem to need our support more than others. we're talking about there being a mandatory quota of diversity in the workplace. we're talking about the fact that there are diversity counseling centers. we are going to give our green friends jobs again, as they often do. so for me this left green report is a slap in the face for every disabled person.
just a minute. i can't let this go. that is not a parliamentary expression: "a slap in the face". i ask you to refrain from using such expressions in future.
i have to say, madam president, mrs. langensiepen, i appreciate you personally, but your report is crap again. a collection of platitudes, trivia and stupidity.
mr fest, can we perhaps maintain mutual respect in this debate?
i told you, i respect her personally, but her report is crap.
i think that 'junk' is not the language of parliament.
i know you're looking for a riot today.
no, mr president, i am only concerned with a dignified debate. i'm asking you to do the same.
i told her i respected her, but she's full of shit. you admit that you do not have enough data, but of course you can always say anything. for example, they claim an ethnic pay gap in the sports sector, but let me tell you, it's often the other way around. but you must of course cheer the europeans on with structural racism, otherwise you would probably get into trouble in your party. they also claim a discriminatory pay gap at the expense of the roma. the fact that many roma, at least in germany, are lagging behind even the weak germans in terms of school performance is ignored here. but without a good education you cannot get a job, unless your name is erik marquardt or bütikofer and you are a member of the green party in the european parliament. and the other discriminations you mention are voodoo and left-wing socialism. this is all bullshit. the greens have been in the lead in the national parliaments for years. if there is so much discrimination, then you should change parties, because your party is politically responsible for this, especially for the discrimination in the lgbti area that you complain about. so, mrs. langensiepen, leave the party, because your party is politically responsible for this discrimination.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 9 march 2021. the final vote will take place on wednesday 10 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i declare the 2020-2021 session of the european parliament closed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the question i keep asking myself, ladies and gentlemen, is: are we really taking the opportunity in the european parliament to make changes here for the climate, for the environment, for the people of europe, and especially in times of the corona crisis? with investeu, we get a guarantee of around €26 billion, which is supposed to mobilise investments of more than €370 billion. and this huge amount of money is going to go into sustainable infrastructure, research, innovation and digitisation, but also into small and medium-sized enterprises and social investment. and that's what we've worked out. the investment projects are checked to ensure that they do not cause significant damage to the environment in accordance with the taxonomy. investment partners can support innovative projects that would otherwise be unlikely to succeed. and it refers to the eu budget biodiversity target. and also very important: small and mediumsized enterprises get capital support. that's good, that's forward thinking. and yet, where is the ambition? is what we're doing here really enough? are we really taking the opportunity to implement the green deal, so that we can look back almost 30 years from now and say clearly: we have done everything we can to make a just change, to at least implement the paris climate goals? that is precisely what we are doing here in the european parliament. at least 30% of investeu investments are now to be used to achieve eu climate goals. and we greens, we voted for at least 40% - better 50% - because we greens think that more is possible and more is feasible in terms of climate action. we know that only with ambitious climate targets can we achieve climate neutrality and the socio-ecological transformation of the economy by 2050 at the latest. this is particularly true of investeu. the taxonomy criteria are to be used for the climate tracking methodology. but where does it say that? at the end of the recital. and what's also missing is the gender perspective. investeu should support smes, especially those run by women, including through loans. we greens also want all investeu investments to be in line with the eu's gender equality strategy. and here too the principles of gender budgeting and gender mainstreaming must be incorporated. all investeu investments are to be subject to a gender impact assessment. and that's how we can ensure that none of the projects have a negative impact on gender equality. these are opportunities that have unfortunately been missed here in order to make our society fairer with investeu. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us seize the opportunity and act now for sustainable investment, for a good future for people and our planet.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we're about to open another pot of money. after putting 672 billion into the reconstruction fund, we are now putting 26 billion into another fund. i'm actually appalled that we keep opening new pots. last week we talked about a brexit adjustment fund and also giving away 5 billion there so that money is distributed there as well. when will we stop distributing our citizens' hard-earned money? do you really think that with a provisional agreement of 70 pages, that with this set of rules we will be able to trigger investment in smes, in small and mediumsized enterprises, in universities and in many others? do we really think we can succeed in creating investment and jobs here? i am afraid that we are only creating jobs in the highly subsidized posts at the commission, at the eib in luxembourg and also in the many advisory bodies which are trying to get something out of this money here too. but i do not see much of an opportunity for jobs in our member states. remember, let the free play of forces in the market work. the united states has been ahead of us: the number of jobs has gone up, and yet they have put forward a package of 1.9 billion. it can't work like that.
i have to say, madam president, investeu is flanking the nextgenerationeu programme hailed as a stimulus programme and a way out of the crisis. a crisis caused by mismanagement and months of lockdown, the most primitive means of fighting a medium-severity epidemic. the eu is cheering, europe is scrapping itself. china, on the other hand, is already back at record levels. and to cover up its own failure and vaccine scandal, the eu is now throwing money out the window for sterile assets and ideological projects like the euro, climate rescue and immigration, environmental and development policy geniuses with a 9% eu contribution to global co2 emissions and almost a million births in africa every week. the eu is borrowing €750 billion in breach of the treaty, because the eu treaties prohibit eu debt and make it clear: the eu budget is to be financed entirely from own resources. the illegal debts are not recorded anywhere. the eu is running a false accounting system and, as always, is breaking its own laws. investeu is now only a change of money with 35 to 40 billion euros. but even this is not invested in the future, but in the pockets of wind farm barons and green finance jugglers. and since the money is also going to friendly neighbouring countries like turkey and high-tech centres like albania, we are also going to finance albanian organic goat farms and electric buses in turkey. this is not an investment programme for the next generation, but the soundtrack of a continent without a future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. health is not a commodity, it is a human right. during covid, the inequality in our health care system has gotten even bigger. people with lower incomes, from minority groups, or in states with weaker health systems are hit hardest by covid. people in bulgaria and romania live on average eight years less than people in spain and italy. the life expectancy of 30-year-old men with a university degree is seven years longer than that of their peers with less education. this is not the time to ask questions about jurisdiction. our aim must be to provide all people in the eu with access to good public healthcare. the eu health programme is a step in the right direction. it should be much larger, but thanks to the tough negotiations of us members of parliament, the programme now has a volume of more than five billion euros. covid has shown us how vulnerable our health care system is. it doesn't matter if it's in athens, bucharest or copenhagen. the market alone will not save us. we need good public health care. we must learn from the mistakes of the past. the crisis has shown that countries that have been able to invest less in their health systems are more likely to reach capacity limits. in response to the euro crisis, spain, italy and greece were forced to cut back on their health care systems. while health spending has increased in most countries, including germany, following the euro crisis, italy, spain and greece have had to cut back on their health systems. the consequences were severe. in italy, 15% of hospitals have closed. in the madrid region of spain alone, 4 000 jobs were lost in the health system and the number of hospital beds was reduced by 3 000. in greece, healthcare spending has almost halved since 2009, from 16.2 billion to 8.6 billion. we must not repeat these mistakes. covid has to be a wake-up call. instead of budget cuts, we need investment, better cooperation and prevention. we need well-equipped health authorities that cooperate better with each other, from the commune to brussels. because we're going to succeed only together. eu4health is certainly not the answer to all these questions, but the programme can be a good start to a new eu health policy.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, like most of you, i would like to stress how much this increase in the budget for the european health programme is a victory for the citizens we represent. with a 12-fold increase on the previous budget, this new budget shows the importance that europe is now ready to give to a sector that has been neglected in european public action. i would also like to emphasize the role of the european parliament, which fought to maintain a decent budget in order to have the means to build on good foundations the project of the europe of health, so desired by the citizens, but to which the council was so reluctant to consent. this pandemic has shown the importance of strengthening our health systems and doing so in a coordinated way. if one of us is vulnerable, we all are. unlike a europe which has so far favoured the market at the expense of improving the well-being of its citizens, i believe that this programme is the first step in an important project to strengthen european cohesion around social protection. i am therefore pleased that this programme has as a clear objective investment in public health services, breaking, i hope, with the logic of liberalisation of these essential services that prevailed until now, and that it also focuses on prevention, on a comprehensive approach to health, including environmental threats. this is the europe that the citizens want and i therefore congratulate my colleagues on the negotiations on this issue.
mr president, the pandemic is out of control in greece and elsewhere, the groups are hoarding and, in the midst of a pandemic, while the people are exposed, the people's income is wiped out, you promote the eu4health programme by strengthening the commercialisation of health. you fund groups through peds, even methodically handing over patient medical data to them for exploitation. digitalisation for the european union means cost reduction, recruiting telemedicine as an alibi for the huge lack of recruitment and infrastructure by the public health system. you provocatively refer to affordable telemedicine, self-service by dispensing medication from home, making inaccessible the inalienable right of the people to free public health and care by the necessary medical and nursing staff. the misery of the commercialised corporate public sector and the strength of the private sector are two sides of the same anti-people coin. we demand immediate measures to strengthen the public health system by attacking the private health sector without compensation and abolishing all patents on vaccines. the people must step up their fight to protect the health of their lives, for improved free health services without corporate action!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have always been a strong supporter of the creation of a union action programme in the field of health and i am glad that such a financing solution is being created. as early as 2015, we were talking about the need to develop joint funding mechanisms in the medical field. unfortunately, a significant part of the right-wing politicians were opposed to this move at the time. we then have to explain to certain governments, like the one in romania, that this program cannot cover the significant cuts to national health budgets. in my amendments to this report, i proposed the following solutions: appropriate technical assistance to increase accessibility, geographical balance in the allocation of funds and mechanisms to improve the capacity to use these resources, funding for hospitals and basic medical infrastructure in the least developed regions, support for telemedicine and the introduction of new technologies capable of improving the medical act. finally, following the positive example of european doctors and nurses, especially those from romania, who during the pandemic volunteered to help in other european countries, i proposed the creation of a permanent medical unit focused on emergency interventions in the most affected areas. to become sustainable, the program needs to make an impact and show that in the face of health challenges, we must and can work together. a true 'health union' is the answer to ensuring that no european citizen is left behind. thank you. thank you.
mr president, the europe of health is a mirage and the european union has neither the competence nor the skills to defend europeans in a health crisis such as the one we have been experiencing for more than a year. the vaccine negotiations were a fiasco. no professional negotiators, just technocrats who've never known the company and would have been fired on the spot if they'd been in the private sector. no transparency in amateur contracts which specified no delivery conditions, no involvement of european nations and a formal ban on them ordering by their own means. what a trap! finally, you have favoured price as the key to negotiation. but when you're at war, you don't care what the cost is when it comes to protecting your people. the goal is to be the strongest, the most efficient and the fastest. on the contrary, we are among the last to have vaccinated only 6.2% of the european population, while the british, who must be smiling, have already injected more than 32% of their population. so let me ask you a few questions: what is the commission doing to try to correct its shortcomings and where is it in the approval of the russian vaccine? as for the future, does the commission anticipate supplies for 2022 so that fiasco 1 does not turn into fiasco 2, if the pandemic does not disappear? finally, what lessons do you draw from these successive industrial failures and what decisions are being taken to ensure that europe is sovereign in the strategic field, and in particular in the medical field? the european union has become the disunion of europe, it is time to let the nations protect themselves. we cannot delegate the protection of our people.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for too long the european union has invested too little and too little in health. now is the time to right that wrong. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the appointment of a european data protection supervisor and the appointment of a european data protection supervisor. we are all citizens of the european union, but despite this, many of us pay several times the price for healthcare and medicines, especially for rare diseases and innovative medicines. many do not have access to centers of excellence, which significantly reduces the chances of survival or recovery. our common goal must be to reduce and eliminate these differences. we must ensure that our citizens have equal opportunities for healing, and everyone must have an equal chance for a healthy and quality life! i therefore firmly believe that through the europe for health programme we can contribute to balance and equity and, through new investments in people, equipment and infrastructure, increase the resilience of our health systems to face epidemics and long-term challenges. we want a strong european health union with no shortages of medicines and equipment, no inequalities and with strong national health systems. i believe that the europe for health programme will be crucial to our recovery and to the speedier exit from the crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. international women's day is over, but women are and have been particularly at risk during the covid pandemic, as they represent a disproportionate share of the healthcare workforce. we agree that medicines must be available, affordable and accessible to all eu citizens. to do that, we need resilient, diversified supply chains and a competitive pharmaceutical industry. but the challenges to our health care system are and remain enormous. whether it's rare, new, chronic or noncommunicable diseases, our collaboration in healthcare needs to be even faster and therefore more efficient. innovative therapies and medicines, as well as improved diagnostics and treatments, can improve the health of our citizens if we facilitate and accelerate their development and authorisation. i therefore fully support the commission's eu4health initiative and the report by our rapporteur, mr buşoi. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
mr president, every year more than 200 000 seabirds and 10 000 dolphins and sea turtles die as by-catch in fishing nets. we need to ensure that vulnerable marine species are better protected. in order to identify the areas where by-catch is highest, the party for the animals wants to use camera surveillance, especially on vessels that pose a major risk to marine life. areas inhabited by dolphins, seabirds and turtles can then be closed off to high-risk fishing activities. in addition, camera surveillance can help to control that caught fish that are too small or too cheap are not illegally returned to the sea. despite the landing obligation, this is still happening in large numbers and the majority of the fish that are thrown back die. fish stocks are under enormous pressure as a result. better control of by-catches of vulnerable species and illegal discards is in the interest of all marine life and therefore also in the interest of the fishermen themselves.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. for a long time, many fish stocks were in bad shape. think of the north sea. that's totally different now. the fishing pressure has been greatly reduced. there have been sacrifices made by fishermen. many ships have been taken out of service. many fishing jobs have been lost. but instead of appreciation, i hear a lot of criticism. some even want to abolish fishing. that would be very foolish in this time of corona, because there is no healthier product than fish with its good fats. and if we had to import fish from countries that are not so strict in their controls, would we want to? the commission also seems to be distrustful of the fishermen, because the commission wants to use cameras. we are not asking when sinkevičius is going to put up such cameras in berlaymont's offices. why this criminalization? if there are problems with, for example, the landing obligation, we must solve them together and we have always been able to do that well so far. so appreciation for fishing and not criminalization for the hardworking fishermen who provide a good piece of food every day.
madam president, commissioner, i also want to start by thanking mrs clara aguilera for her excellent and thorough work on this very important dossier. the control regulation is a key tool of the common fisheries policy and must be applied in a clear and uniform manner in all member states. this regulation is also an opportunity to ensure that information relevant to good fisheries management and scientific monitoring is available in an agile manner, through greater digitalisation of the activity of the entire sector. fisheries data are valuable for the sustainable management of the activity, and i consider it essential to include the collection of data on the interactions of fishing vessels with sensitive species. i would like to conclude by asking my colleagues to vote in favour of the amendments concerning the recording of this information, and i would remind them that, contrary to what is sometimes said, this recording will not cause an increase in bureaucracy, since it will not take more than two or three minutes in a working day, while the information provided will be of enormous importance and will remain in time.
madam president, commissioner, mrs aguilera, fisheries is a central issue for europe and especially for spain, a country washed by several seas, with a robust sector and a great tradition. this is why this fisheries control regulation, whose reform was launched in 2018, is an important text: it makes progress in modernisation; it increases the digitalisation of the sector and reduces obstacles; it makes progress in recreational fishing, making it more european, and it makes progress in traceability. however, we must ensure that in this advance we leave no one behind. the european fishing sector is suffering serious setbacks, such as brexit or this covid-19 crisis. we must therefore encourage them to change, but we must also accompany them in this change. that is why i want to call for the adoption of this balanced, ambitious but also comprehensive text, for example, with the definition of 'lote' and its major implications for the canning sector, which is key in areas such as my own region, galicia, where it generates more than 12 000 direct jobs. this year, more than ever, the europe that demands and also the europe that protects those families who live off the sea must be more present than ever.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a fair system of controls in the fisheries sector must be applied uniformly in all the member states. today, however, 80% of the checks are carried out in italy and spain. it must protect marine resources, protect small-scale coastal fishing, but act against illegal fishing. the traceability of fisheries, especially those from third countries, must be improved. we have achieved important results in the committee on fisheries in terms of traceability, transparency and harmonization of controls. i call on my colleagues to eliminate derogations which favour the interests of the big ships and which leave room for fraud. today we have the opportunity to vote in favour of a system which protects marine resources, but which goes beyond the protection of small-scale artisanal fishing and which is not subordinated to the interests of the large fleet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. many aspects of this proposal have already been mentioned. i want to go into the area of recreational fishing. the commission has put forward a number of proposals to collect information on this subject, in order to know the impact of recreational fishing on fish stocks. i think it is also a question of exploring the socioeconomic aspects of this important area. we've seen the importance of this in the pandemic. of course we need a sensible system of registration and licensing in the member states. this is the starting point for all measures. i welcome this. however, we need the principle of proportionality and we need the acceptance of this sector. this is also important because local fishermen are often the most important, and sometimes the only, protectors of nature and water. so we need a reasonable system. but we also need acceptance. we need proportionality and we need to explore the important field of recreational fishing. we need information on the importance of the socioeconomic aspects. it is also part of the solution and we must keep this important area in mind with appreciation.
i have to say, madam president, my dear colleagues! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. but what you do with it is what counts. and if we look at the report, it is, as so often, about enforcing the rights of minorities at the expense of the majority. and it's about creating jobs so that you can push the ideas that these institutions think are so important here, but not so much about civil rights. in 2017, it's been a while , i was invited to a networking meeting of ombudsmen to discuss the extent to which populism restricts civil rights. the 2018 annual report, which was voted on a year ago, was again about ensuring that populism doesn't stand a chance. so it's obviously not about the problems of the citizens with the big eu bureaucracy mole, but it's about the fact that many well-paid jobs are there to help this eu mole even better to power. and that's why we have concerns about it.
madam president, dear emily, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. günther oettinger has been approved for 14 new jobs. seven of those new jobs are for registered lobbying organizations, plus he's opened his own consulting firm. the ombudsman rightly pointed out that one of these new employers has a major client, philip morris. günther oettinger is not in such demand because he knows so much about tunnel boring machines, but he is hired because he has the best contacts in politics. he's hired to help influence laws and decisions. but that's not what's supposed to happen here. the commission always says that oettinger should not lobby his former colleagues. but i wonder what he's doing at a lobbying firm if he can't lobby. conflicts of interest are hardwired into it. you, madam ombudsman, have repeatedly complained about this in 2019. they also said: 'there is a possibility of banning these secondary activities.' ladies and gentlemen, i think it is time we gave the ombudsman's recommendations a lot more weight and listened to them even more carefully.
the commission has already done so. mrs. o'reilly, you have a very important job. and while this office has no executive power, you do have the power of the word. you can accomplish a great deal with your words. but i'm worried that if you go beyond your office, if you go beyond your mandate, then your words won't have any effect. i therefore ask you very warmly, simply for the sake of your important office, to: but you make it ineffective when you lose your greatest asset, the credibility of your office, by going beyond your mandate; there is some evidence that you have done so, so i would urge you, for the sake of your office, to stop.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, tuesday, 9 march 2021, with the final vote on wednesday, 10 march 2021.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on tackling the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on the economy, in particular through investment, competitiveness and skills (2021/2580 ((rsp)). i would point out to members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of views and no blue cards will be accepted in any debate at this sitting.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, there has been a remarkable paradigm shift in responding to the impact of the current crisis. now, contrary to the 2008 financial crisis, there is a broad consensus on the need to intensify public spending to get our economies off the ground, including at eu level with the next generation. this is good news. now we need this public spending to focus on those key investments that can bring more added value to our economies and more power to transform them. this means green and digital investments, but also investing in research, innovation and skills for a more resilient economy and for decent jobs. this is all the more urgent, given that in some countries there are young generations that have only experienced one economic crisis after the other. they don’t see any bright future and they are beginning to show their discontent. so, fiscal stimulus and future—oriented investments will be very important, but they alone won’t get us out of the covid crisis stronger. we also need the economic foundations to be inclusive and fair for everyone.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission, the european parliament and the european central bank have all been able to cope with the pandemic crisis. in particular, the work is positive in its responses. the flexibility of cohesion policy funds, which have, moreover, been co-financed at 100% since july 2020, the suspension of the rules of the stability and growth pact, the opening up to state aid, and also the ecb's work to enable low interest rates, are good examples of this. but the member states have been absent and have not been up to the task. they have been absent, as the council was absent today in the main debates in this chamber. member states still have 57% of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy amount to implement today. the financial framework 2021-2027 is already ready but, nevertheless, there are no partnership agreements signed yet. the council has not learned from the pandemic. the window for strategic investments in investeu has closed. the council has abolished the instrument for the solvency of small and medium-sized enterprises. then it is europe's fault. then it all got into the same bag, but unfortunately it has been the member states that have not been up to speed. we have the european commission, the european parliament and the european central bank.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! we're here today to discuss the economic impact of the covid pandemic. the problem we have here in the economy, commissioner, is not so much the virus as the political lockdown. and i want to say explicitly that the first lockdown was right and justified. all that happened there last march, i would do it again today with the knowledge i had then. we'll have to talk about the second lockdown, whether they were prepared as a policy. and if we want to control the economic crisis from such a pandemic, you can do it right -- i'm with you -- and flood the market with money. but we should also - and i am firmly convinced of this - look at what we have to do in order to avoid flooding the market with money in future crises. i am firmly convinced that we must create jobs. however, new economic goods must also be created and produced. and a very important point here is that we have to be careful that this much money doesn't lead to price increases. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we have to do is similar to what we have to do with cars. all cars are equipped with airbags, so all buildings must be equipped with ventilation systems. so we need new production chains for ventilation systems, automatic disinfectants and and and and and not just the old ideas.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we're here today to discuss how to combat the covid-19 crisis for our economy. and there's a lot of agreement on how to fight them. you want to print money, or as we say today, we just create it. and that money we'll distribute with the green project watering can. this is how this eu will fail. and i won't shed a tear for her. i'm here to represent the interests of germany. and how we can do it in germany, i think i know exactly. we need to invest in our infrastructure, but not with printed money. german savings books have 2.5 trillion euros, 2.5 trillion euros less every year because of the ecb's zero interest policy. this money needs to be invested. we need attractive government bonds to invest in our infrastructure, a $2.5 trillion investment program for education, digitization and our infrastructure. that's how we'll get through this crisis for the good of our country, for the good of germany.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the current political situation in georgia (2015/2575 ((rsp)).
madam president, georgia, the leader of the eastern partnership, faces a political crisis. politicians from both camps are to be blamed for this mess. they put their egos above the country’s interest and choose polarisation over cooperation. to resolve the crisis, the eu needs to move from facilitation to mediation, as we have done now. the people of georgia need to be the cornerstone of the solution. they should decide the date and time of the next elections. those elections would only be an emergency fix and not a long-term solution. without a completely new electoral system, we will see the crisis repeating itself. the reform of the judiciary and more parliamentary oversight for the opposition must be the political priority. both harmful shadow actors – mr saakashvili and mr ivanishvili – should stop any further interference. high representative, the eu needs to act in georgia. we cannot be absent once again during the next crisis in this region. this house, myself included, is more than ready to lead the way.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in mid—march 2011, the syrian revolution started in the streets of daraa, homs and aleppo. people went on the streets for more democracy and freedom, press freedom and food, but what they got were bombs. they got a war. we are talking about president bashar al-assad, who thinks that he has won the war. let’s tell him that he didn’t win the peace. there is no democracy in syria. there is still suicide recruitment, arbitrary arrests, and disappearances. we urge that all who are detained be released immediately. we demand that all our missing and disappeared are searched for and identified, and that all these cases are investigated. many actors see the country as a playground for their own interests. it’s not a civil war. it is a proxy war and the victims are syrian civil society. we must put syria on our political agenda to give hope to those who are counting on the european union. there’s a small glimmer of hope. the al-gharib trial in koblenz, germany, was an important trial in our union to judge two syrian intelligence officers. we call on the commission to design an accountability strategy to support member states and non-eu countries in applying the principle of universal jurisdiction to further end it in the domestic legal systems, mr borrell. i attended that trial. it was dramatic what the victims told us. we must show the world that mass crimes do not go unpunished.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not for ten years, syria has been fighting a brutal war, a proxy war waged on the backs of the people. geopolitical interests, a regime change policy and ringing coins for the arms industry, that's one side of the coin. the other: death, suffering, hunger, misery and flight flight also from war machine made in eu, death also in the mediterranean because of the inhumane eu migration policy. war always means humanitarian disasters. according to the world food programme, 12 million people in syria do not have enough to eat. the economic sanctions are exacerbating this catastrophe. yes, the assad dynasty rules the country; it is not the interests of the people, democracy or social achievements that determine the regime's policies. but that cannot be a justification for war, either economically or militarily. instead of sanctions, the country needs material support. the syrian people must finally put down their arms. all foreign forces must leave the country immediately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the civil war in syria has shaken the previously stable country to its foundations. outside actors have tried to advance their geostrategic interests with the help of brutal islamists, causing great suffering to the syrian people. but the war in syria is almost over. assad has won. denmark has recognised these changed realities and has classified parts of syria as safe. only idlib is left as the last bastion of islamist terrorists. these terrorists are still being supported by erdogan. the eu must make a clear statement here: no more attempts to supply, but simply sanctions. we need to restore diplomatic relations with assad to allow the return of all syrian refugees. not only would the eu benefit, no, the whole region would benefit. the european union has been foolish enough to put pressure on erdogan to give him refugees. so, talking to assad, sending syrian refugees home and helping to rebuild syria.
mr president, the war in syria has now lasted for ten years, the political process in geneva is stuck and mr borrell has come here today to just read out a statement about how much money we have thrown at the problem. mr borrell, i really don’t think that’s enough. so, while listening to you and my colleagues, i drew up a list of things that we can actually do now. the first one is to finally use the political leverage that comes with all the money that we have spent. for that, we need a strategy. our strategy comes from 2017, so maybe we should revise that. then, continue the fight against impunity by supporting all the universal jurisdiction processes that are happening in the european union, and make sure there are more of them. repatriate european citizens from al-hol and roj camp. ease family reunification and resettlement. and, finally, please treat those in camps inside europe with dignity. support peaceful and democratic activists in exile, and ease the visa and protection mechanism for everyone who needs to get out. mr borrell, dear colleagues, that is the least we owe to the people who have stood up against assad’s regime for the last ten years.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about the european semester for economic policy coordination. and there are some positives to report. the european unemployment insurance is actually off the table. the idea has been taken up that we should not finance unemployment but rather create jobs. the commission is also proposing to create a new instrument, effective, active support for employment. that sounds good. but unfortunately, there is always a big difference between theory and practice in the eu. the creation of jobs with money has worked very badly in the past. for ten years we have been trying to combat youth unemployment with a lot of money from the european social fund. but youth unemployment in greece, italy and spain has gotten worse and worse. spain is currently leading the way with 40.2% youth unemployment. so, using money to create jobs hasn't worked in the past. these are structural problems. these structural problems must be solved at national level. even my own country, the supposedly strong germany, has massive problems. the recognised economic research institute, the mannheim institute for economic research, for example, only in february found that the german labour market had become very unattractive. we are still at the level of a developing country in terms of digitization and education. at the same time we have the highest tax burden, the highest tax burden and, on top of that, the highest energy prices in the world. that is not how labour market policy works.
the commission has already done so. the opposite of good is good. and no one here disputes that the europe-wide coordination of budgetary policies is well-intentioned. but the results we are seeing are that the european union is the major global economic area with the lowest investment power and the lowest economic growth for years. and we're not going to solve the problem by, as some of you have asked, now also loading this coordination with the idea of climate change or gender equality, but rather innovation and economic growth come from freedom and less government coordination. and so the question arises whether the call for ever more european centralisation, regulation and cooperation is right or whether we do not need competition between different national approaches and more freedom for economic actors. we are creating full employment and economic growth more than we are creating more and more government, more and more conferences and more and more coordination.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate we are having here about the european semester is very closely linked to how we are going to rebuild europe after this pandemic and how we can make europe more sustainable, digital and social. but to do that, we also need to anchor these objectives more firmly in the european semester, and with our report here from the employment committee we are making it very clear that more upward convergence, stronger social security systems, good, functioning social dialogue and good health care are essential to get out of such a crisis. the last economic and social crisis has shown this very clearly. because countries that have these characteristics have come through the crisis faster and better. it is therefore time, it is overdue, that we now strengthen social resilience in the national reform programmes throughout the semester process. and i am very glad that the commission has recognised this and is moving forward. because it cannot be that only those who are already doing well will emerge from the crisis, or that they will actually be supported.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 11 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the action plan for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights in the run-up to the social summit in porto in may (2021/2581 ((rsp)). i would point out to members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of views and no blue cards will be accepted in any debate at this sitting. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
i have to say, madam president, the action plan we are talking about today was discussed in the social affairs committee in the last weeks and months, and there was a lot of wind there too: they wanted covid. and the economic crisis that we're seeing everywhere right now didn't actually happen. instead, they wanted -- i wrote this down -- high-quality jobs, resilient jobs, gender-equitable jobs, sustainable jobs, inclusive jobs, diverse jobs, digital jobs, non-discriminatory jobs, family-oriented jobs, and of course, climate-neutral jobs. at the moment, at least in germany, but also in many other countries, the catering industry is coming to an end, the handicrafts sector is in the greatest difficulty and tourism is on the decline. but that doesn't matter around here. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr radtke said it, mr schmit said it too: social europe is at the heart of all our considerations. the extent of this social europe is shown by the statistics on youth unemployment, which is currently around 40% in greece, between 20% and 30% in spain, france and portugal and over 30%. that is the policy of the eu. and when secretary zacarias says that companies should put people before profits, that's nothing but a stupid empty formula. because without profits, companies cannot provide jobs. and all the nice talk in this room is no longer any use at all. so, ladies and gentlemen, you get a sense of reality and then you make your policy accordingly.
the commission has already done so. it is now three and a half years since the juncker commission opened the door to making the european house more social and more equitable. but what was missing at the time was a concrete action plan, binding targets and initiatives to achieve this. i must say that perseverance pays off, as we have shown as a parliament, as a group: it is here! it is making life better for many european women, especially those who were not born with a golden spoon, who toil every day to make ends meet, who do not receive fair wages and who are still poor when they retire after a long working life. but as the last speaker, i have the privilege of addressing something that is falling short, which is the question that we have to think about in porto, the question of strengthening democracy in the workplace, giving workers a voice, involving them in the process of change, so that this enormous change, this transformation that is ahead of us, can also succeed. it's time to deliver here, too.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the european pillar of social rights has always been presented as a political, non-binding declaration. in reality, it is an instrument for further social and political harmonization. the action plan is another step towards a social europe, with ever new proposals. but to maintain and strengthen our expensive welfare systems, we need a strong economy first, and that's being undermined not just by corona, but also by the antisocial green deal. the member states should and must retain exclusive competence for their social policies. the member states should first of all take care of the social situation of their own citizens. in 2018, more than one fifth of all employees in germany earned less than eur 11,40 gross per hour. since the 1990s, the low-wage sector has grown by well over 60%. in no other european country with comparable economic performance does the low-wage sector take on such a scale. one in four nurses in germany works in the low-wage sector. low-wage work leads to old age poverty. one of the solutions is clear: if we want to enable people with low incomes to leave, we have to reduce social security contributions. germany takes care of the eu. it is time for the federal government to address the brave people in germany who are trying to survive every day with a targeted (social tax) policy.
we come to the first round of voting today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 2.15 p.m. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 7 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m.)
mr president, yet another debate on poland and hungary, to which you have added slovenia. you're definitely setting fire to the wood. a simple tax on the media in poland, the banning of a radio station that persisted in breaking the law in budapest, an ironic tweet to put a far-left journalist in her place in slovenia. your accusations are, as usual, highly exaggerated, politicized and, to put it bluntly, grotesque. you have not reacted to the scandalous attack on democratic pluralism by angela merkel, who has tried to place the main opposition party, the alternative für deutschland party, which has a group of 92 members in the bundestag, under police surveillance. an attempt that was more disturbing, but fortunately prevented by the law. similarly, where are you when it comes to defending the right of europeans to express themselves without fear of political correctness censorship? what has the european union done against the gafam hegemony? only poland has sought to protect the freedom of expression of its citizens. worse, in france, the public service broadcaster france télévisions has introduced a variable remuneration system for its editors: those who talk most about european integration or diversity receive financial bonuses and not the others. but you probably don't see any violation of freedom of the press here either. unfortunately, the commission does not defend media freedom: it attacks democratically elected governments which do not bow to progressive and globalist propaganda.
mr president, the european union's criticism of the reactionary governments of poland, hungary and slovenia for their well-established media suppression has nothing to do with popular problems and freedoms. it is forbidden by deeply conflicting interests of the bourgeoisie. it is hypocritical, because it pretends not to see that the same thing is happening in the other countries of the european union, with censorship and the exclusion of communist parties, trade unions, by the owners of media groups. the european union's sensitivity to countries which it denounces for suppressing the media is a la carte, since the commission, in answer to our questions, provocatively covered up the suppression of the polish communist party newspaper brzask, the prosecution and conviction of its editorial board by the government and judicial authorities. it covers anti-communist persecutions, laws and bans against communist parties in poland, slovakia, the baltic states, in associated countries such as ukraine. the peoples of europe must oppose the anti-people policy of the european union and its governments, which is accompanied by anti-communism, repression and attacks on people's freedoms, paving the way for far-right and fascist forces.
mr president, individual and personal freedoms, such as the freedom of the press, are a cornerstone of europe. there can be no functioning european democracy without a free press holding politicians to account. but individual freedoms only help if you can claim them in front of a court. that is why we should preclude political games and flippant finger-pointing. rights cannot really be defended in the abstract and in parliamentary debates. they can only be defended through the rule of law and the judiciary. commissioner jourová, you asked for a toolbox, and i think you are right. in my opinion, article 7 has proven unsuitable. where individual journalists face persecution, they need to have access to courts to remedy any violation of rights. that is why we should reform the european court of justice. i absolutely disagree with mr fitto from the ecr. of course it is a european topic when we talk about the freedom of the press and human rights. we should bring journalists to the position that they can bring their cases in front of the court in luxembourg. some member states already have the instrument of individual constitutional complaints on a national level. let us introduce a complaint at european level in order to make fundamental rights individually enforceable before the european court of justice in luxembourg, colleagues. that would be a major step in the right direction to protect freedom of the press and human rights in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. so we are here today to chastise poland, hungary and slovenia for allegedly restricting the freedom of the press. the real enemies of press freedom are sitting right here in this house. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. this house in particular has set up numerous mechanisms to censor, delete, denounce as hate speech or expose as fake news anything that does not correspond to 100 percent of their the only permissible opinion, selectively as racist, homophobic, anti-european or anti-human. because you, the open-minded, tolerant, schickeria-political elite of brussels, determined to improve the world, you will not let anyone destroy your colorful, climate-neutral, gender-obsessed, multi-cultural world of tralala, promising world peace - not even a pluralistic and free press, will you? will you stop pointing fingers at people? you're going back to your own door. you'd have more than enough to do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. anyone who is in favour of europe must stand up for it, be responsible for its success, said the legendary foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher. in poland, hungary, slovenia, we see the exact opposite. there, the governments are fighting against brussels as if europe were the enemy. is this the responsibility for the joint project? not at all. the threat to the rule of law, freedom of the media, freedom of science, insufficient asylum procedures - these are the sad headlines. i am tired of this behavior and their talk of illiberal democracies. without liberalism, there is no free people, there is no democracy. the constant promotion of one's own interests is contrary to the european idea. we cannot build a future with images of enemies, we must find common solutions. an inscription in the genscher conference center near budapest reads: "no power in the world can permanently stop human dignity and freedom". the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome. it is high time that in poland, hungary and slovenia too, the focus should be on free people and the common europe of the founding fathers. it is high time that the rulers there finally live up to their responsibilities.
i have to say, madam president, what we are discussing here today is actually already enshrined in treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights. it should be taken for granted. and yet, in europe, there are governments and politicians who sow hatred, who promote lgbti-free zones. and if you listen to these debates here today, to these stupid speeches, some of them from the right, you have to say: this resolution is still important! because we have to fight for this, and we have to fight for this until tolerance plays a role in europe, until queer people are no longer four to six times more likely to commit suicide, until every rainbow family in europe has the same rights, until a gay teenager no longer has to be afraid to come out to his parents, and until every lesbian couple in every city in europe can walk around holding hands without any problems. and that is why europe does not stand for hatred, incitement, black and white thinking. the eu stands for love, diversity and the colours of the rainbow. and we say that today. and i'm proud of that.
i have to say, madam president, germany once had a homosexual foreign minister, berlin and many other major european cities were run by homosexuals, and the leader of my party's faction in the bundestag is openly homosexual. but conditions have worsened in the west. mr legutko has given the figures. in many districts of berlin, hamburg, munich, but also in paris, brussels or amsterdam, homosexual couples no longer dare to walk hand in hand through the city. these people are not threatened by germans. nor are they threatened by poles, hungarians or slovenes, but by muslims. but that's the big taboo that you can't talk about here. because that would raise the question of muslim migration and whether it really makes society more colorful, better and more liberal. the 70s, 80s and 90s were much better for lgbtqi people in europe than today. the cancer of homophobia has only re-emerged in western europe in the last 20 years, and the cause of this metastasis is known. as long as you keep silent about the problem of muslim homophobia, it makes no sense to declare europe as an lgbtqi freedom zone.
madam president, we’ve been hearing the narrative of the right and the extreme right today. what we are hearing here is ‘policy for minorities damaging the majority’ and, of course, this is complete nonsense. respecting the rights of lgbtiq people does not take anything away from others. why do i stand here as a woman happily married to a man and fight for lgbtiq rights? first, because it is the obligation of every democrat to stand up when anyone’s human rights are being violated. and second, because when minority rights are being violated, democracy is in danger, and we see this everywhere where lgbtiq rights are being endangered. it is about the independence of the judiciary, the freedom of the press and the rights of the opposition. it is no surprise that it’s especially in poland and hungary, among other countries, where we have these issues. so if we stand for democracy, we have to stand for the rights of minorities, of lgbtiq people. we have to stand for the eu being an lgbtiq freedom zone.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 11 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the rights of the child by mr juan fernando lópez, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000007/2021 b9-0007/2021).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. children's rights should definitely be at the center of our thinking. and it's good that a strategy is being developed to respond to the recent challenges, especially those related to the covid-19 pandemic, which have a significant impact on children. children were in a particularly difficult situation, deprived of opportunities to interact with their peers. limited educational opportunities and limited internet access, especially in poor families, are making covid-19 more likely to affect children in poor families. but what about the situation in the european union as a whole? can we feel satisfied that the 21st century has brought about a better situation for children? well, no, it wasn't. in many countries of the european union, the number of children living in poverty is increasing. poland has dealt with this issue in recent years. thanks to government policies, the number of children living in poverty has decreased significantly. however, i would also like to draw attention to the situation of forced child marriages. commissioner, i hope you'll be able to finish... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a comprehensive strategy on the rights of children is needed now more than ever. the present economic and social crisis requires us to ensure that the rights of children, of all children, are protected in the first place. in fact, if before the pandemic, one in four children in europe was at risk of poverty, today the situation is worse. school closures, while necessary, are having a huge impact on the growth of millions of children and young people. during the lockdown, violence and abuse, including sexual, against children online and offline has increased. the strategy should then provide the basis for systematic and coordinated action by the european institutions, member states and civil society to ensure full and effective access for children to education and training. and then there is the fight against poverty, social exclusion, all forms of violence, exploitation and discrimination against children, the conscious participation of young people and child-friendly justice, the protection and protection of migrant children and the most vulnerable. and the european union must take the lead in the practical implementation of the 1989 un convention worldwide and in particular in those areas affected by child labour or the worst forms of violence against children used as weapons of war. the union's strategy must therefore help us to build a present and a future in which children's rights are not only enunciated but also realised.
president, in this pandemic, children have increasingly become victims of all forms of violence. and for me, commissioner, the fight against sexual exploitation of minors must be the priority. but i'm very worried. the e-privacy directive and the lack of an agreement on the temporary exceptions have stopped social media companies from detecting illegal images and grooming on the internet. reporting has gone down 51 percent, while we know that the facts have gone up exponentially. so today i'm calling on you to help me. make sure there's an agreement in the trialogue, because we have to know that for every day without agreement, children pay the price. a second priority is the children of migrants. today i want to be their voice, especially for the ten thousand who are missing on european soil and have fallen into the hands of human traffickers. it's our goddamn duty to protect them and find them. finally, commissioner, on behalf of the intergroup on the rights of the child, i would ask you to set up a specific unit on the rights of the child. in fact, we should appoint one european special representative for the rights of the child, because children's rights must be respected and implemented everywhere and at all times.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in germany, a study was published about a week ago and was covered in many newspapers, including the frankfurter allgemeine and others. it was about the pedosexual networks in berlin and the - i regret to say - decades of child abuse. and the study also named the people responsible. it was the so-called left alternative scene and especially the green party. that is probably why members of this party, at least the german one, are not speaking here today. because they continue to tolerate in their ranks a depraved, pedosexual subject like volker beck. to talk about children's rights when there are many members of a party sitting here who were either directly or politically responsible for the worst crimes against children is absurd, shameless, disgusting, false. in a word, it's the usual here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to comment very briefly on my predecessor. mr. fest, i am a green and what you have told me is a lie and a complete nonsense. we're used to it from you. i welcome the efforts to ensure that the rights of the child are protected and respected. but more needs to be done, because strategies without binding character are not enough. you know why? at this moment, many children in the eu have no food or water and are struggling to survive. often, some children have to share a piece of bread because so-called soft policies do not work in the face of discrimination and social exclusion, as is the case for example with roma children. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we need binding policy measures with adequate budgetary resources if we are to make a positive change in this precarious situation. humanity and respect for human beings, as well as our european values, require us to take this inhuman situation seriously and not to allow this very ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, protecting the rights of children, both in domestic and foreign policy, throughout the world, is one of the priorities of the union, if not the union's top priority. the pandemic has undoubtedly had a negative impact on children's learning, well-being, development and protection. they have suffered a greater risk of falling behind in education, falling into poverty, being victims of neglect, abuse, difficulties in accessing distance learning, even more discrimination. one third of the children surveyed say they have been discriminated against, and when children have a disability or belong to an ethnic minority or a vulnerable group, discrimination has been experienced by 50% of them. the pandemic has indeed brought to light deep inequalities and exposed serious shortcomings in child protection systems around the world. our vice-president šuica will be presenting next week the eu strategy on the rights of the child - something very positive, we have full confidence in it - based on four important pillars: protection of the rights of the most vulnerable child; protection in the digital age; protection from violence, and a child-friendly justice system. i have no doubt that we must be and will be the guardians of children in the union and throughout the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. children are the main victims of the pandemic. we've closed schools and kindergartens, even playgrounds - not to mention other facilities for children. it seems that not only the parents but - what is much worse - the children with their needs, fears and needs seem to have been forgotten. this is a disgrace, and we should do everything we can to make sure that this never happens again. we must ensure that access to education is available at all times. it requires reliable structures with distance learning and mixed concepts with presence, accessible to all and upgraded when needed. at the same time, however, a social structure for children to meet with their peers must also be available. preventive child protection or the detection of child welfare risks is otherwise difficult or impossible. but perhaps most importantly, children need other children, and face-to-face, not online. if we fail to develop concepts here that take children's needs seriously and help them, even in times of pandemics, to their right to be just a child, then the words of the un charter and the fundamental rights will remain empty words. and i don't think we all want that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. children are a particularly vulnerable part of our society, because they often have no lobby. the commission's forthcoming eu strategy on children's rights is an important step in the right direction. preventing and combating violence against children both online and offline must be the rule and not the exception. as for online prevention, we could use ai to detect potential abusive behaviours, such as grooming, and also to curb the spread of child abuse material. data protection must not become the protection of the perpetrator, and the police must not be able to use state-of-the-art technology to track down the perpetrators. justice must be responsive to the needs and rights of children. the different age limits in the member states and the partially lenient penalties for child abuse are not conducive. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we need adequate training of the professionals, and not only of those in the investigative and judicial authorities, but also of teachers and carers. let us all speak with one voice on this issue, at national and european level. then the children's concerns will finally be heard.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last month, le monde published the names of thousands of offshore companies and foundations in luxembourg, mostly vehicles for laundering money and evading taxes for the wealthy inside and outside the eu. this was not through leaks, but through the evaluation of public sources in luxembourg due to the eu money laundering legislation. this is a good example of how transparency rules are very effective in the fight against money laundering and tax evasion. we do not need the eu tax harmonization that the greens are all too happy to call for here. instead, i have a much better idea: end the unspeakable exemption of ngos from eu money laundering and transparency rules. the citizens have a right to know which financial speculators are funding these global pioneers of socially degenerate ideas here.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the application of regulation (eu, euratom) 2020/2092 (conditionality mechanism linked to the rule of law) (2021/2582 ((rsp)). i would like to point out again that, as in all the previous debates, spontaneous reports and blue cards will not be accepted and that colleagues from the member states and the liaison offices there will also be in attendance.
(in reply to comments made by nicolaus fest without a microphone) mr fest, i understood the question. but you know that the custom in this house is that we do not intervene in the first round of the representatives of the political groups unless it is absolutely necessary. that is why i am treating the main speakers of all the groups equally. but it is quite right that we should like to point out to colleagues that they should not waste their speaking time on fees at this point. but you have seen that i have treated my green colleague exactly as i have treated my ecr colleague. so the keynote speakers here have a bit of an advantage at this point. i shall then pay very close attention to the speaking time in the next few rounds, as i usually do. in order not to lose any more time, we shall now proceed with mr papadimoulis, who will be speaking for the left group in the first round.
i have to say, madam president, the rule of law conditionality regulation has been in force since 1 january 2021 and this parliament in particular has worked very, very hard to achieve it. it was a normal legislative procedure: the commission proposes, the council and parliament negotiate and it is decided. this law is in force. it is not being applied and it is not at all clear when it will be applied, because guidelines are being adopted before that, and then the ecj is called upon. this is a rather unique process. you are violating your role as guardian of the treaties, which you normally insist on as commission. why would you do that? because the european council has taken a decision. the european council is not a legislative body under article 15 of the treaties. he's not a part of this. we have a european law in force and what we are discussing here is not an academic exercise. it's not just about words. it is not just a question of interpretation, but of flesh and blood, as long as this regulation is not applied. for example, i have just spoken in the last few days to polish prosecutors who have been transferred from one day to the next, allegedly because of a shortage of staff. they arrived, of course there was no shortage of personnel. they had simply spoken out for the rule of law, and they had been punished for it. they won't see their kids for a whole week now. they cannot reverse this, when, perhaps, in two years' time, a decision has been taken on how to interpret what we have decided. so act now!
i have to say, madam president, before i begin, i have two love letters to you in your pigeonhole, which i hope you will answer. and please check your mailings so that we do not get the impression that your personal organization is sometimes as inadequate as your congregation leadership. the fact is that poland and hungary are suspected of breaking the rule of law. it would be useful to take a look at germany. judges are appointed on political grounds. the prosecution is not independent. the ruling spd is one of the largest media owners in germany. and just recently a chief prosecutor in berlin published a book in which he comes to the conclusion that we do not have the rule of law in germany - not least because the trials would take so long that even many serious criminals would be released again and again. and of course my own party is directly affected by it. the constitutional protection has now been twice rejected by courts or put on the back burner because it had first called the afd a test case - that was already illegal - and now the observation has been inadvertently leaked to the media. that was also a clear violation of the law. and in that respect, the rule of law is not exactly in good shape in germany either. in addition, the suspension of essential fundamental rights in the context of the government's corona policy. this is something that is repeatedly and sharply criticised by your colleague mr kubicki, but also by many constitutional judges. so when we talk about the rule of law mechanism, we should not be so much concerned with poland and hungary as with the ever more worrying conditions in germany.
madam president, when students forget to do their homework, legend has it that the dog ate it. i think the commission equivalent of that is ‘we’re still working on the guidelines’. the commission suggested the rule of law mechanism over three years ago and seems to have been utterly surprised now by the entry into force on 1 january. it’s been three months. we haven’t seen anything of those guidelines. the commission still refuses to apply the law, and the governments of poland and hungary are creating facts on the ground. every day we hear new news of breaches of fundamental rights, of the rule of law. new projects are awarded to the family and friends of viktor orbán. commissioner hahn, i think the parliament’s equivalent of ‘stop making cheap excuses for not doing your homework’, is that we will sue or censure if we have to. we will fight for the rule of law, because this is not just some school project. this is the foundation of this union that this is about. so please do this homework.
before we continue the debate, i shall open the first round of votes today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 9.45 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 11 a.m. the results of this first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the commission statement on the application of regulation (eu, euratom) 2020/2092 (conditionality mechanism linked to the rule of law) (2021/2582 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, the crisis of the rule of law in europe is actually one of the most urgent tasks. every day, money disappears into dark pockets, the independence of the judiciary is attacked, and yet the right here in this house is talking about a great campaign. otherwise, they are always in favour of spending as little money as possible in a european manner. but now, when eu funds are being misused by autocrats and put into corrupt pockets, they are defending this in the european parliament. this shows their duplicity and, above all, their mendacity, ladies and gentlemen. i cannot explain to my voters, i cannot explain to the european taxpayers, why we allow our own anti-fraud office, olaf, to find that 4% of eu funds are being misused in hungary and we do nothing about it. ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law is on fire in europe. the european commission would now have the right tools to do something about it. but the european commission is like a fire brigade that goes to a burning building and first discusses guidelines and whether it could not wait for the ecj before putting out the fire. we can't let that happen. the commission is responsible first and foremost to us. we have voted for it, and we can also vote against it. they are not primarily responsible to the member states or the european council. there is a clear regulation. we want you to put this ordinance into effect immediately. we want the eu commission to act, otherwise we will activate article 265. the rule of law in europe is on fire. you're not gonna get away with this!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think you underestimate the rights of her to be very right about certain things. the rule of law, the rule of law as such - there is no alternative to it. it is absolutely necessary. and if you come to the cont committees, you will find that we are very much in favour of respecting the rule of law and budgetary discipline. we're fighting on the same side, just like everyone else. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not wasted. but i have serious doubts whether this newly created rule of law mechanism is the right instrument. if article 7 has not worked so far, i wonder why? and thank god for the unanimity rule. after the negotiations, which i have followed very closely, and the compromise reached in november and december, it was clearly decided that poland and hungary, after withdrawing their vetoes, could very well bring the matter before the court of justice. and then they said that this rule would only come into effect after that. now it's in effect. but you cannot take away their right to appeal to the ecj. and so, please make sure that not only when it comes to the rule of law mechanism, the finger is pointed at poland and hungary and we, with the other three fingers that we have, that we forget, because this is really a big problem that we have, and i ask you to pay attention to this.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a bold undertaking to put the 750 billion euro reconstruction fund in the hands of the people, and now there is another one to go along with it. they want the national reconstruction plans to be made, and there are an incredible number of bureaucratic hurdles to overcome. do you really think you can do this, that you can handle this mammoth project that threatens to become a bureaucratic monster, that you can handle this? the only way you can do that is if you have a clear control here. and it can only work if the funds are distributed through a programme which is uniformly applied in all the member states, if it can be controlled with it - otherwise you will fail.
i have to say, madam president, in february this house approved the debt-financed and therefore unconstitutional 670 billion euro eu reconstruction fund with an almost stalinist majority. the debts were not recorded anywhere. the money is a stimulus programme for southern europe, but it is already being used for mckinsey consultant fees, tax cuts and immigration bonuses. the commission has also proposed that the member states should submit national recovery and reconstruction plans by the end of april. the plans are judged by the eu commission and unelected ngos, which already have too much influence on policy. the eu needs investment in education and future industries, not cultural revolutionary economic policies or government contracts for shady consultants who dismantle companies and deindustrialize europe, not reindustrialize it.
madam president, a month ago i praised the eu recovery fund as a game-changer for european solidarity and recovery, as our key tool for tackling the dual transition of greening and digitisation. since then, businesses have been engaging with national governments to express their ideas when it comes to digital infrastructure or hydrogen, and this can be positive for modernisation. but when it comes to other interests, say, from civil society actors, unions, local and regional governments or even national parliaments, this is completely different. almost all governments are refusing to engage in serious consultations. even though this is a requirement within the text. this is a mistake. let’s make sure that this recovery fund is best practice, a beacon for a future of common european macro-economic governance where all interests are represented and, frankly, the best ideas win. furthermore, i urge countries like germany and the netherlands to commit to additional investments and actual reforms, to not waste this chance, even though elections might be looming.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. 23 out of 27 eu heads of state or government are men, and 23 out of 27 economic ministers are men. that's a male ratio of literally 85 percent. and as they say in english, when you're not at the table, you're probably on the menu. and that 's exactly what happened here . in the covid crisis, women are not at the table, but are paying the highest price in the labour market and with the additional unpaid care work. but nextgenerationeu has forgotten them, because there, a lot of the money goes into the very sectors where the male share is about as high as it is among our economic ministers - such a coincidence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. ngos and local authorities, but also women's rights organisations, gender equality experts and, above all, representatives of the care professions - they know how we can create more resilient, fairer and more successful societies for all. the commission must now demand and ensure that this consultation takes place, mr vice-president, because we must finally listen to these women.
madam president, dear colleagues, mr dombrovskis for the commission, by the way we are missing the council. it’s very sad that when we talk about them that they’re not here. when we talk about the partnership principle, we acknowledge that we politicians in brussels, but also the politicians and the capitals, don’t know everything and they don’t know how to recover every aspect of the regional economy. therefore, we involve the regions in the question of how to ensure that the recovery really belongs to the people, how we ensure that the recovery facilitates matters in every region of europe. then the question is, why aren’t we using it? why isn’t it used for this recovery as well? this endangers the whole recovery project because it makes it possible that funding goes into fraud, but it also makes it possible that we lock in regions into useless investment programmes that the people on the ground don’t want. so please, to the commission, you need to ensure that the that the partnership principle is valued, that the democratisation of this project, of this recovery programme is valued, and you need to ensure that no plan comes through that doesn’t value the partnership principle.
i have to say, madam president, the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market. but now it is also a question of using the funds in a sustainable way. the post-corona rebuilding must be climate-friendly, social and digital. member states must put at least 37% into climate, at least 20% into digitalisation and not a penny into climate-damaging projects in their national plans. we greens are therefore disappointed in the spd finance minister olaf scholz and the cdu economics minister peter altmaier. the grand coalition in berlin is recycling its old economic programme without any involvement. the grand coalition in berlin wants to spend just 22% on climate investments. this is embarrassing. mr scholz, mr altmaier: do not let the eu's billions sink into your federal budget, but work with environmental organisations, trade unions and local mayors to make sure that the corona programme becomes a package for the future.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. free speech is not a crime and should not be labeled as such but it happens in bahrain. since the arab spring of 2011, in this country, the freedoms have been restricted, the right to demonstrate is restricted, parties are banned, and people who have different beliefs, who come from the opposition, are arrested, then tortured, forced confessions are made, and then they are sentenced to death. ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable. we should make it clear - and i am glad that mr ruiz devesa has just mentioned this - that this should be included in a cooperation agreement between the european union and bahrain, and that this should be clearly mentioned in the human rights dialogue. the high representative for foreign affairs must make it clear to this country that we in the european union do not accept this from our partners. we expect the death sentences for mohammed ramadan and husain ali moosa to be suspended. we expect that the other 18 - 20 are not executed either, because the death penalty, ladies and gentlemen, is inhuman. and when a confession is forced, on which the death penalty is built, it is all the more abhorrent.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, more than two thirds of the countries around the world have either abolished the death penalty or have a moratorium on it, and amongst them are countries like morocco, tunisia or algeria, and until 2017, bahrain was part of this group with a de facto moratorium on the death penalty and no executions. but sadly, bahrain left this coalition and so far, six people have been executed and dozens are on death row, like mohamed ramadan and hussein ali moosa. they report, both of them, that they were tortured into confessions, and both of them are at imminent risk of execution. this is a very dramatic situation and it is a clear violation of international human rights standards. dear colleagues, as the chair of the delegation to the arabian peninsula, i really don’t want the rulers of bahrain to go down that road. i would actually rather like to see them living up to the statements that they make, describing bahrain as a country that is ‘soon to be a champion of human rights’. and that is why i reiterate our call, that we have made in this parliament repeatedly, to the bahraini authorities: halt all executions and go back to the moratorium of the death penalty.
author. – madam president, in 2017’s local elections, 43% voted for the one opposition party, the cambodia national rescue party (cnrp) – a signal of change a year ahead of the general elections. but the government, under its leader hun sen, didn’t want to share power. the opposition leader was arrested and the party dissolved. hun sen’s party was the only one running in the neither free nor fair general elections, winning all seats. then he stripped the 5 000 opposition councillors of their mandates. many were arrested, others escaped into exile. in 2019, the opposition leaders tried to return to their home country. for that, they and their supporters are now being tried, in a fake mass trial that is politically motivated, for attempting a coup. it’s the latest push to silence the opposition. but democracy in cambodia can be restored. opposition and civil society are not giving up, and are asking the international community for help. the eu has the tools to support them. last year’s partial withdrawal of trade preferences is putting economic pressure on the regime. target hun sen and his accomplices with individual sanctions; freeze their assets and ban them from eu travel; and don’t give them a symbolic win. the next asia—europe summit is scheduled to take place in cambodia. this cannot happen. this form of cooperation cannot happen in a country that has overthrown democracy. the way back to democracy won’t be easy, but the people of cambodia deserve that we support them in their striving for freedom and a better life.
author. – madam president, the prime minister, hun sen, clearly misuses the covid-19 pandemic to crack down on human rights and civil liberties in these countries. the recent mass trials against opposition and civil society are just the last step on a very dangerous path towards dictatorship. in cambodia, we are now looking at intimidation of environmental activists and restrictions of internet access, governmental censorship, violence against peaceful demonstrators and so much more. this is how the government undermines democracy and builds a breeding ground for fear and mistrust, and none of this is actually helpful to fight a pandemic. so, it is very much time that the foreign affairs council sends a very clear signal to the leaders of cambodia. either they end all forms of harassment, repeal the long list of restrictive laws, and drop all charges against opposition, or they will have to face the consequences, including – and that is very important – targeted sanctions against cambodian leaders and their egoistic economic interests.
the commission has already done so. you ask me about my vision. let us imagine: thriving agricultural landscapes, where the farmer and the farmer produce tasty food in harmony with the welfare of animals and the regenerative capacity of the soil. imagine healthy forests that provide native wood, or wild nature where beavers, deer and lynx can once again flourish. imagine: people who can be climate-neutral mobile and produce their own energy. tourists travelled by night train, perhaps by e-bike on the way enjoy these unique landscapes and the hospitality of the people. new ways of living together in the countryside - also made possible by digitalisation - will, together with local politics, farmers and local businesses, shape a shift towards a greater common good. the principle of 'public money for public services' must be respected. our eu procurement criteria or eu funding must make this local green deal possible. the common agricultural policy should logically be in line with this vision. a common welfare economy, called here in the house 'sustainable economy of well-being', must become tangible and visible in the countryside, and this will inspire people.
mr president, i say to mr wojciechowski: i want to let you in on a little secret. come close, it is very simple. not everyone living in rural areas are farmers. and i think it’s important to respect that and to understand that. actually a majority of people in the villages don’t even work in agriculture. and still we combine agriculture and rural development. and this is one major conflict which often goes out in favour of big farmers and against a majority of people. the cap is the main reason why the rural areas have seen the destruction at the moment. and your meetings show that as well. sixty-seven meetings with agriculture organisations, none with representatives of rural policies. the long-term vision for the rural areas should rethink the structure as we make development of rural areas. and it should increase the funds for leader programmes and small farmers, as well as ensure that any development is sustainably ensured by democratic bottom-up processes so that the people, those people who actually improve their villages and make them a livelihood again, that they get the power back. (applause)
author. – mr president, i would say to the commissioner, imagine you live in the czech republic and you want to buy, say, a t—shirt on an online italian marketplace, but you always get redirected to a czech shop. or imagine you want to pay for this t-shirt online, but your credit cards get refused again and again, simply because it has been issued in another country. or, finally, imagine that you want to type in your address of delivery, your home address, but it is impossible because you live at the other side of the border. these are examples of unjustified geo—blocking and these are examples for discrimination based on your nationality or your place of residence. i would say this discrimination has no place in the eu internal market. the geo—blocking regulation of 2018 aims at fighting this discrimination. this is good. now, we as consumers should be able to compare the availability and the prices of services and goods sold across the internal market. now, we as consumers should have the possibility to buy goods and services on the same conditions all over the internal market. coming back to the examples. if we book a ticket for a french museum on a french website, irrelevant of where we are, we shop under the same conditions online as if we were in france. so the geo—blocking regulation aims at eliminating discrimination, at preventing the referral to other websites without our consent, at making digital content available all over the eu – in short, at giving all consumers the same rights. by this, the geo-blocking regulation can be a very important cornerstone of the digital single market, of enhancing cross—border sales and of overcoming geographical restrictions. so only one and a half years after it entered into force, the commission has evaluated its implementation. this is why we are here today. the evaluation shows some positive effects. for example, blocking access to websites or rerouting consumers to other websites has decreased massively. but it also shows that there is a lack of enforcement by most member states. so member states really have to step up their efforts in fighting unjustified geo—blocking. the report shows also that often enough goods are not offered online across borders. so the commission’s report also considers the possible extension of the scope of the geo—blocking regulation, including with regard to copyright—protected content. this is highly relevant for consumers because streaming services so far have been excluded from the geo—blocking regulation, as we probably all know when we are trying to watch something in a different member state. we as the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) expect national authorities and the commission to work together in the framework of the consumer protection cooperation network to prevent any discrimination between eu consumers and to ensure adequate and effective implementation of the geo—blocking regulation. we as the imco committee will support efforts to deepen the digital single market while maintaining high standards on the internal market without barriers or frictions for consumers. i look forward to the commission’s further explanations and actions in this field. (applause)
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. obviously, the regulations for the geo-blocking are not very flattering, the evaluation is not very flattering to you. and the examples have shown enough where the problems lie. obviously the three exemptions offered by the regulation are not sufficient. and the question is, do we need something completely different? we cannot have a free internet blocked by such regulations. we need a free internet, where there is no censorship. because the risk of this happening is very high when there are such rules. so please, commissioner, make the impossible possible and give the citizens of the union a free internet.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is always useful to help where there are problems and to create developments so that people can stay in their countries and develop on their own. that is also true of afghanistan. but we are convinced that such commitments cannot be entirely dissociated from clear political influence, particularly on our own member states and our allies. we have, unfortunately, an endless war in afghanistan, and the result is that the civilian casualties are currently on the rise again. i would therefore like to see us not only making commitments here for the further development of afghanistan, but also combining these commitments with clear messages to the defence politicians in the nation states and in the allies to stick to the withdrawal plan. we cannot accept that we are making commitments to provide development aid, but at the same time the agreed withdrawal date for the western alliance is being postponed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. the rules are actually quite simple: before the eu commission makes new financial commitments at international conferences, the budget committee must be informed or involved. and from our point of view, there are two arguments why that's problematic. firstly, because you are adversely affecting the otherwise good relationship between the european commission and the committee on budgets, and secondly because you risk losing support for important international policies and commitments that you must also make. we therefore wish that we - and i have heard that you have already made this argument, commissioner - not only in the plenary today, but also in the committee on budgets afterwards, should talk about how we can improve this and how we could also think about, for example, an early warning system or something similar to prevent this from happening again.
i have to say, madam president, i have to be honest: the attitude of the eu and the biden administration towards mr. erdoğan is incomprehensible. only yesterday, in a televised debate with the hdp deputy, the hdp deputy told me that he was concerned about the eu's statements. yes, not about turkey, but about what is happening in the eu! while the erdoğan regime is stepping up its crackdown on dissent, the eu is showing confidence, backing off from planned sanctions, negotiating visa facilitation and stepping up economic cooperation. sanctions for china and velvet gloves for erdoğan that's the motto of the heads of state. and they're not just losing their own credibility. they are encouraging the autocrat in ankara to take even more martial action against the opposition. it is not surprising that the 'we are confident' is being implemented at the same time as the hdp ban or other measures. i want to make it clear that many members of this house do not agree with geopolitics being placed above human rights and democracy.
i have to say, madam president, covid-19 is a medium-severity viral wave. but the eu has failed to do so. east asia, the epicenter of the virus, has between 20 and 5,000 fewer deaths than we do. our economy here in the eu is collapsing. china, meanwhile, is exporting at record levels, and india is containment-wise, with prophylactics and no lockdown. the eu's vaccine procurement is clumsy. israel has six, england has five, and the us, and many have vaccinated three times as many people as the eu. the eu's vaccination passport will now allow only those who have been vaccinated to travel and live normally. seventy percent of vaccinated and immunized patients are sufficient for herd immunity. but the eu still lacks the vaccine. stop these ruinous lockdowns and respect our basic rights! there's more to life than avoiding death. europe may well need a great reset, not for the citizens, but for a failing eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am naturally pleased that the debate on own resources is being promoted and supported above all by the left, the greens and the socialists in this chamber, that is to say by members of parties whose economic and monetary ideas have regularly failed and led their countries to ruin. after brexit, it was: "oh, we all get it, less eu". six weeks later, macron came up with the proposal for an eu ministry of economy and an eu minister of economy. three weeks later, the proposal for an eu army came. and in the context of covid, we have now seen the transfer union, the borrowing by the commission and now an extension of the right to levy taxes, and this is for the eu, not for parliament. in the united states, independence began with the principle of "no taxation without representation". here it is the other way round, and taxation is being introduced without any democratic legitimacy. the european nations are thus becoming brussels' taxing colonies. and it will end the same way as in the united states: at some point, people will, if i may say so, be fed up with further taxation - now even from the eu, without democratic legitimacy - and will say goodbye to this project. i am hesitating between approving and rejecting this, because it will be the final nail in the coffin that closes the lid on the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. while us president joe biden is moving ahead with massive economic stimulus packages, brussels is waiting for 27 member states. the reconstruction fund is in the starting blocks, but only half of the member states have done their homework so far. because only when all national parliaments have approved the own resources decision can we respond to covid with investments together and boost our economy in a climate-friendly way - it's time! the own resources decision is the first step in our view. we greens want fiscal union. the eu must become an economically viable and global player. for this we need own resources such as the digital tax and the possibility of taking on debt. what's right for covid must be right for the climate crisis or social divide in the future. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. do not block the economic sovereignty of the eu, because that will weaken europe, and we should not allow that to happen.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, who are still here in the chamber! i know that our house here, the european parliament, is not the house, it is not the temple of self-criticism. but we should ask ourselves why the citizens - and my predecessor has just said it: we are the ones who represent the voice of the people here - criticize us too harshly, not only recently, not only since the recent corruption scandals, but already over the last years and decades: because they have lost faith in us, because they have lost faith in the problem-solving capacity of politics in general and also in us here. so i ask myself: does it make sense in this day and age to create more problems than to solve them? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the first question. and the second is that we should move into open discussions. all the speeches i've heard here today, they've been a game of bingo with random, same-sex assholes. it's all about green, it's all about sustainability, it's all about inclusion, it's all about transition. and instead of demanding the great reset of society, ladies and gentlemen, we should rather ask ourselves: is there not a need for a great reset in the openness and honesty of politics?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the eu's 2022 budget is an important tool for human health, climate, environment and ecosocial recovery of the economy in the context of the covid-19 pandemic. we are today setting out our guidelines for the forthcoming budget negotiations, and we know that where money goes, policy is implemented, and what the eu stands for becomes tangibly measurable. our three green priorities are clear: climate, environment and research and development. and it cannot be said often enough: eu money must not be put into climate and environmental projects that are harmful. we have set ourselves an ambitious climate target in parliament. that's why we need to decarbonize the economy by 2050 at the latest, to at least meet our paris climate goals. we want massive investment in research and development to implement the green deal, for digitisation and for green industrial policy. this should benefit smes and start-ups in particular. we also call for funds to be invested in a gender-equitable way, the keyword being gender budgeting. and we need to promote culture, as in the case of the creative europe programme. and this is also very important: proper funding for erasmus+. and it must also be said that frontex does not issue a blank check. frontex must face the accusations of pushback and hire human rights monitors. the eu's 2022 budget is designed to make europe sustainable and fit for the future, and bavaria is saying: let's go!
the next item is the report (a9-0037/2021) by mr javi lópez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of the air quality directives: directive 2004/107/ec and directive 2008/50/ec (2020/2091 (ini)). i would like to point out to members - as always - that there is no room for spontaneous speeches or for unsolicited cards in the debates of this sitting.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, who doesn't want that? clean air. i'm with you. but even the commission concludes in a communication from november last year that air quality is getting better. in germany, for example, nitrogen oxides have decreased by over 80 percent since 1990, largely due to the advances in technology in the automobile industry. this, of course, does not prevent you, mr lópez, from immediately starting with the ominous 400 000 premature deaths, which are often cited but never proved. aside from the fact that it's difficult to prove when someone dies prematurely, the numbers are pure estimation. that is at least what the commission's reply to my question says. but there's more. nitrogen dioxide alone would have caused 54,000 premature deaths and ozone 19,400. i can reassure you , by the way . life expectancy is still rising. and according to the latest data from statista, the risk of dying from smoke from "beware" fires in the home is even lower than the consequences of unprotected sex. sarcasm aside, i'm not going to tell you. just forget about the numbers game, i can do that, too. and don't add unwanted cheerfulness with nonsense, but make sure that the measurement methods are aligned. because when they measure one on the roof of a high-rise building and the others, most of all my own country, preferably on the center lane of a four-lane city highway, we continue to compare apples to pears. the reality of the citizens' lives is, as always, definitely not to be found in reports like this.
before we continue the debate, i now open today's voting. the vote will be taken on the items on the agenda. the voting is open from 9.00 to 10.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as at the previous partsession shall apply. requests for waiver of immunity shall be voted on by secret ballot. members may vote in the usual way, but the ballot paper they must receive and sign does not indicate how they voted, only that they voted. all other votes shall be by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote may be up to 400 words. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 10.15 p.m. the results of the votes will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
we shall now continue our debate on the report by mr javi lópez (a9-0037/2021).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all want clean air to breathe, so we need the best technology and the latest science. ideology is not good for you, it is bad for you. what we learned during the coronavirus crisis is that where there was less traffic, it didn't always lead to the reduction in air pollutants that it should have. i think it's wrong to point the finger at the internal combustion engine. the fdp will not support the campaign against the internal combustion engine under the guise of air pollution control. there's a lot of things i think are wrong here. just one example: the direct alignment of eu limit values with who recommendations. the who itself has been saying since 1997 that simply adopting the who guidelines can lead to standards that cannot be achieved in practice with reasonable effort. we don't even know the new who limits yet, so we'd have to buy the cat in the bag here. my approach would be to focus on fleet renewal, so that euro 6d can really make an impact, and that we rely on new fuels: innovative, clean, synthetic fuels including hydrogen. we must make better technology possible, not replace it.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, 24 march 2021, and the final vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 25 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs chrysoula zacharopoulou, on behalf of the committee on development, on a new eu-africa strategy a partnership for sustainable and inclusive development (2020/2041 (ini)) (a9-0017/2021).
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, because with this report, chrysoula zacharopoulou has achieved something that rarely happens here, namely that she has created a great unity in this house for us to launch a new partnership between the european union and africa - a partnership that transcends the post-colonial period and is a partnership that works on an equal footing. i would like to thank her very, very much for that. we are focusing on this report to ensure that we are on an equal footing with this partnership. and what is happening in africa, for example, under the name of covax, is precisely this partnership on an equal footing, ladies and gentlemen, where we are taking responsibility on the part of the european union and, together with our african partners, are providing support in this global pandemic that is hitting the most vulnerable. in this strategy, which has been drawn up, we are focusing on education. we're betting on the women of africa, on the youth of africa, and i think we're doing well, because that's where the future lies. but there are others in this house -- and i'm assuming that the speaker who's going to speak right after me will be squaring it off -- who are talking about how this strategy is about bringing millions of africans to europe. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. of course, migration is one of the issues we also need to discuss with our african partners. we also need to do better at getting people who come to us but don't have the right to asylum to be sent back to their countries. but we also have a humanitarian responsibility to the most vulnerable groups on the african continent. we have a responsibility to define: how can we define precisely the migration of labour to europe? how do we decide who can come to us to work with us? these are issues which need to be discussed very seriously as we develop a common strategy with our african partners. but it is not just a matter of opening the doors wide and saying, 'please, come on in. whoever put this in this room is not telling the truth.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i may be a squadron leader, but you are a dreamer, my dear fellow. the african strategy, my dear colleagues, is an ideological, neo-colonialist, alien project which will plunge europe into the abyss. the core problem of africa it was not even mentioned at all. not a single word about the massive overpopulation of africa in the entire document! the european demographic problem is not to be solved by an adequate family policy, as is the case in the much-criticized hungary, for example. no, illegal immigration is to be legalized and the problem of mass immigration of culturally unfamiliar and often very unqualified migrants is to be solved. how well this works, germany can sing a song about since 2015. this is immigration into the social systems without any benefit to our society and not for the benefit of these migrants. the migrants send a lot of money back to africa, which does not solve the problem of overpopulation, but only increases it massively. has the european citizen been asked whether he supports this madness? no, of course not. this is democracy à la eu. we reject that. one thing is certain: you cannot help africa by destroying your own continent.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam rapporteur, madam commissioner, the new european union strategy with africa opens up a new path, a new vision and new possibilities. we remain convinced that a respectful and transparent dialogue between african and european partners will be the source of a new and fair synergy. this report is therefore of paramount importance in the context of the eu-africa strategy. we want to prioritise, in agreement with our partners, the fight against poverty and corruption, human rights, the fight against social inequalities and the defence of democracy and the rule of law, but also access to basic needs, health, food security, education and environmental protection, as well as the eradication of forced child labour and youth unemployment and the empowerment of girls and women. we have had encouraging results so far. the main objective of the report is to ensure a partnership of equals, in order to go beyond the donor-recipient relationship. we cannot achieve this without taking a critical approach. we have had notable successes in the fields of agriculture and trade to promote sustainable and inclusive development. we must therefore continue to reduce systemic dependence on foreign imports. stimulating internal trade is to encourage regional integration on the african continent. however, as regards the digitisation strategy, we should not impose our approach on african countries, especially as they face many challenges: how can we think about the internet without access to electricity, education or primary health care? we must therefore continue to work towards an effective and fair partnership that will enable us to achieve sustainable and inclusive development.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, we on the european left consider that this report contains some positive recommendations, particularly in the areas of development, agriculture and the environment. however, we understand that it is continuing on immigration and trade and, above all - and this is one of the fundamental issues for us - it introduces very problematic elements in the field of euro-african military and security cooperation. that is why, although we understand that there must be a strategy for africa, as a group, we will abstain. because we need a strategy that fine-tunes and updates europe's relations with africa, but these relations must be guided by a focus on rights and social and climate justice, as well as targeting the causes of poverty and inequality that african peoples suffer. so these things cannot be done if we maintain the same extractivist and neo-colonial, resource-devouring policies that continue to characterize euro-african relations. with this strategy, european development cooperation policies are increasingly subordinated to other interests which have nothing to do with poverty reduction but with immigration control, the externalization of borders, militarisation or the interests of european multinationals. a real strategy for africa should start by releasing patents on covid vaccines, by cancelling illegitimate debts, by changing unfair trade relations that prevent africa from developing its own productive capacity. the opposite has a name: neo-colonialism. and for that, we are not counted.
(entry of speech) ...migration, therefore, must be stopped by eliminating its root causes. economic development, job creation and local livelihoods are needed, and eu policy towards africa, with particular regard to the sub-saharan region, must be re-founded. we can only succeed if we make a strong improvement in addressing the root causes of migration: security, food security, lack of adequate employment, private investment and educational opportunities. i am convinced that projects in sub-saharan africa need to make greater use of traditional african knowledge. if we really care about africa, we should build our relationship with them on practical grounds, not ideological grounds. we need to get help to the scene. stability in europe begins with stability in africa.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu and africa need to work together more closely and, i would say, more strategically, because the challenges are great: a rapidly growing young population in africa for which the private sector must create millions of jobs, highly fragmented markets, too little integration in value chains, too little tax revenue base for investment in social security systems, education and health. we are faced with china, which is our system enemy and increasingly makes african states dependent on it. climate change can pose a major threat to africa's systemically important natural resources and biodiversity and, as a result, to the global climate. and finally, brutal conflicts and terror are forcing millions of people to abandon their homes and migrate. i believe that the following points are particularly important in future eu-africa cooperation. first, the eu is an expert on the internal market and trade. we have a great opportunity to share our experience and knowledge of how to create peace and prosperity through integration and common legal frameworks with africa. second, to achieve climate goals and sustainable development, we now need to leverage new european-african partnerships, from energy generation to digitalisation, to our mutual benefit. third, true partnership requires meeting each other. we must therefore systematically intensify contacts between europeans and africans in the economic, educational and cultural fields.
on behalf of the id group. i am not going to go into the details. turkey is thus withdrawing from the istanbul convention, an agreement which seeks to combat violence against women at least ostensibly and which obliges signatory states to take preventive and legal measures to curb public and domestic violence against women. but what is the use of such a convention if you are tearing up borders and importing into the eu millions of young men who either cannot read such a document or who, because of their socialization in a macho culture, simply do not care what rights a woman should have in this country? since 2015, the number of women murdered in the member states has almost doubled. forced marriages, child marriages and also genital mutilation are on the rise in the eu. the istanbul convention's lyrics of concern have not prevented this. protecting women from violence starts with protecting borders. it is hypocritical to accuse turkey of anti-women tendencies in the wake of its withdrawal, when it is only trying to protect the traditional family. it is their right and proper. the istanbul convention only pretends to address violence against women. in reality, under the guise of protecting women, a completely abstract, misguided gender-crazy nonsense is being implemented.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this is incredible. i feel ashamed to have to speak after a speech like that. and honestly, for years we friends of turkey have been telling those people, those opponents, we have been trying to convince them that they are incorrect, that we share a common future because we share common values. and now it’s the government of turkey itself that proves us wrong, that tells us that this convention is european values and they don’t want to deal with that? no, they want to prove us wrong, but we’re not wrong. because they can throw the rights of women out of the window, they can ridicule their own lgbti minorities, they can prosecute the kurdish minority and try to ban their party, but they cannot take away the dignity of those people, and we are obliged to the dignity of those people. and the member states are obliged to the dignity of those people. that’s why i say: don’t sell out human rights for realpolitik. and that’s why i say to mr erdoğan: stop the withdrawal from the istanbul convention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the removal of barriers is one of the greatest achievements of the european union: it was the removal of our internal borders and the abolition of customs controls that helped the european economy to achieve true greatness. it's time we take this idea into the digital space. this is precisely the aim of the european data strategy we want to build a schengen for data in europe. the aim is to ensure that data can circulate safely and easily within europe. only by opening up our national data silos and linking and making available on a european scale data which today often remains unused in public institutions or on the hard disks of medium-sized companies can we, for example, promote artificial intelligence made in europe. of course, we must ensure that citizens and businesses know exactly what their data is being used for. such a european single market for data is intended to return control of data to citizens and businesses, as an alternative to the business models of the american data giants. for example, health data: a european medical data space can take us years ahead in cancer research. for example, geographical and mobility data: we can draw a lot of useful information here for environmental and climate protection. or, for example, all the data that is generated in agriculture -- that also helps our farmers to be more resource-efficient. so, we have huge opportunities if we implement the eu data strategy accordingly, and we are all called upon to do so now.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, during the first full term of the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this european parliament - which i have the honour of chairing - spent a great deal of time and energy exercising its role as legislator of fundamental rights in the field of data protection, adopting the general data protection regulation and the directive protecting the data of europeans in the event of criminal investigations. and that data protection package finally comes into force in 2018, mandating that two years later, in 2020, the commission on civil liberties, justice and home affairs submit an implementation report. and it does so in a context that cannot be more challenging: at a time when the european union is legislating the digital package, artificial intelligence and, at the same time, is facing data protection in pandemic control, medical research and the approval of green certificates. and this report has an overall positive assessment. businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises, have adapted to the new data protection regime, as have public administrations. and yet, there are still problems and we detect them. first, abuse of consent by online advertising or 'dark patrons'. secondly, abuses of data protection against fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and communication or the freedoms of trade unions and collective bargaining. but thirdly, there are also differences in the way they are applied, because, above all, some countries are failing to provide their data protection agencies with the material, technological and human resources to effectively control the giants of the net. and we find that there are national protection authorities that are not doing their job properly. so a positive assessment, but at the same time a wake-up call to fully exercise the authority of data protection authorities to fully enforce the general data protection regulation in the years to come.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, every second our satellites, the devices that now govern our lives, are generating billions of data globally, data that has the enormous potential to increase the sustainability and efficiency of production systems, transport, energy networks, agriculture, health services - to name just a few - and, not least, to contribute to the achievement of the ambitious climate goals we have set ourselves. the challenge we have to overcome today is precisely that of non-personal data. in the report we are about to adopt, parliament is strongly supporting the objective of creating a european data governance that creates opportunities for our economic system, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, making it increasingly competitive and innovative, and at the same time improving the daily lives of citizens, workers and consumers. of course, there are also risks associated with the misuse or fraudulent use of data which we should be able to prevent in order to create a climate of trust. we therefore need to create clear and easily enforceable rules that are based on sound principles, such as interoperability on the one hand, and the protection of personal data and consistency with the gdpr on the other. we need a europe that invests in cloud, 5g, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, as well as in digital training and skills; a europe that remains open to dialogue with partner countries and leads the development of international standards, promoting its values globally.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: our personal data is more legally protected in europe against misuse, against data theft, against data loss than anywhere else in the world. this gold standard of privacy and data protection ensures our freedom and self-determination, unlike the chinese dictatorship, for example. personal data is not an industrial commodity. but our privacy rights are only worth as much as we are willing to fight to enforce them - even against industrial interests, even against powerful nations like the united states. data protection authorities must issue orders and impose penalties in a timely manner, without regard to location interests. the eu commission must launch infringement procedures where this fails. and we as a people's representative must fight against chat control, against data retention, against total tracking and for the right to anonymity in eprivacy and the digital services act. because our children, too, have a right to a life free from constant surveillance and manipulation. let's get to it.
madam president, those who control shares, profit from data. this is the key question that we are trying to tackle with this report. at its core this question is a question of power and i think with gdpr we have made a big step towards ensuring that some of this power is being given back to individuals. with this report we ask for further steps to rebalance this power. currently, there seems to be an imbalance when it comes to the concentration of market power in many of the aspects related to data. we need to make sure in our future steps in this legislation when it comes to the data governance act, when it comes to the data act, that we give power back to individuals, that we safeguard their rights, that we clarify the role of intermediaries and that we empower governments and businesses to share data in a trusted and safe environment. this has to be the european model to get towards greater digital competitiveness.
madam president, data is not the new oil, data is the new soil, because data uses knowledge and we can harvest it over and over again. and that is an excellent reason to farm that soil with great care. first of all, we should have the expertise to do it ourselves because every good farmer knows how to farm her crop. but today european companies don’t have the top-notch expertise to process big data and therefore we need huge investment in european talent, rather than outsourcing that task permanently to global hyperscalers that don’t respect our fundamental rights, like data protection. secondly, we need to focus on innovation to minimise electricity consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and waste, because the data economy must mitigate and not precipitate the climate crisis. and thirdly, we urgently need to close the gender-data gap in order to obtain high-quality data and create a digital economy in which all population groups are equally represented. let’s respect privacy, focus on open source and decentralised systems, ensure intra-operability and above all, make sure that the produce of our new soil goes to the many and not the few.
i have to say, madam president, thank you, commissioner reynders, for discussing this with us today. data protection and cybersecurity are prerequisites for a secure data strategy. but it is quality, access and how we handle them that will determine the success of data-driven technologies like artificial intelligence. the data strategy shall distinguish between personal, non-personal and anonymised data. for example, health data can be used very well and usefully in research in an anonymised form, but please do not use it individually for calculating health insurance contributions. and by the way, an algorithm can only be as good as the data it's fed. data sets must be free of discrimination so that the application software, which has not heard of the woman in the executive position, does not sort out the women. it also needs access to public data and clear rules about what companies must and cannot share, so that tomorrow's big guys are not just the ones who already have a big data advantage today. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of data for the purposes of the protection of personal data. the european union is the world leader in innovation. and a data strategy is the foundation for that.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank everyone who contributed to this report, which i believe sends clear and positive signals to kosovo. we here in the parliament have confidence in kosovo’s european future, and we would expect an equal commitment by the newly elected government of kosovo. our committee’s report is a strong one, and this result would have been impossible without the help of the interlocutors in kosovo and the constructive support of my colleagues here – so thank you once again. kosovo’s progress on the european path is in our common interest. parliament stands strong and united with kosovo and its people, and we need to make sure that all political actors work alongside us for this european perspective. people in kosovo are overwhelmingly in favour of the european union, in fact, no country in the region shows a more positive attitude towards the eu than kosovo. this fact is not self-evident, however, and cannot be taken for granted forever. if we do not fulfil our promises, we lose credibility and trust. it is high time for the council to deliver at last on the promise of visa liberalisation. i absolutely share the frustration of the citizens of kosovo. i wish the european parliament could decide on this matter. a very topical problem is also the lack of vaccine supply in kosovo. the production capacities here in the eu are currently being increased, and this must lead to a much better supply for kosovo as soon as possible. the eu should support the speedy vaccination of healthcare workers and other most vulnerable groups. compared to crisis response, our cooperation regarding the pre-accession funds might not seem that pressing, but in the pursuit of a more sustainable and healthier future for kosovo the fight against air pollution mainly caused by coal and outdated infrastructure must be tackled as well. we need to use the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) funds wisely. if we do not invest in the energy transition now, we are harming the health of millions of people, not to mention our climate commitments. ipa funds aim at sustainable development. therefore they need to be accessible. we particularly expect the commission not to prioritise only state—sponsored infrastructure projects; smes, ngos, civil society are crucial for sustainable development in the region and they must have access to these funds too. experts advise the eu to spend more of its resources on democratic institution-building, and less on gas pipelines. apart from those obvious eu topics, our report also encourages kosovo to make more effort on various domestic issues. amongst them are topics such as climate change, education policy, gender-based violence, to name just a few. the responsibility for this work lies in pristina. ultimately, the government of kosovo has to pass the reforms and implement them consistently. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the new prime minister albin kurti and his government. i wish them every success in responding to the many challenges ahead and look forward to working on our shared priorities. to overcome the current difficulties, political stability is a precondition. in the interest of the country, the new assembly and the government should find common ground and enable the election of the new president. regarding the belgrade-pristina dialogue, i ask them not to go for the low-hanging fruits. i ask kosovo to stay committed to continue to work with belgrade and the eu, and despite all difficulties not to abandon the dialogue. an agreement, and yes ultimately mutual recognition, is a precondition for eu accession both for serbia and kosovo. joining the eu without a comprehensive agreement will not be feasible, neither for serbia nor for kosovo. asking what kosovo can gain from the dialogue is the wrong approach. all political actors should rather ask themselves what is lost by abandoning the dialogue? the opportunity—cost of not having any agreement is high, and no one gains anything from the current status quo. this leads me directly to serbia and the respective report for which i am a shadow rapporteur – after all, belgrade’s responsibility in this dialogue is not any less, and abandoning it should not be an option for serbia either. if president vučić is truly committed to serbia’s european path, he should show commitment regarding a comprehensive agreement, which is a precondition for serbia’s accession. aleksandar vučić could and should use his two-thirds parliamentary majority as a strong backing for continuing the dialogue. with this majority ratio, he could easily push through domestic reforms, prove his democratic commitment and deliver changes that improve the livelihood of all serbian citizens. we are looking forward to seeing the actual results of his work: better democratic conditions and economic prosperity. what we do not want to see, but unfortunately have to, are certain forms of misuse of power. here i think about how government and individual mps attack those whose opinions they do not share: silencing, threatening and harassing political opponents are surely not in line with democratic and eu principles to which serbia has also committed itself. political debates can sometimes be very controversial, heated and emotionally charged, but hate speech and orchestrated personal attacks are never tolerable. these reports are not an end or a conclusion but a stocktake and guidance for further cooperation. it is almost needless to say that my commitment will continue as ever.
madam president, i believe that the enlargement strategy that takes into account the benefits, costs and risks of all parties involved, facilities prosperity and stability in the region, defends the geopolitical interests of the eu. i am especially addressing my fellow members of the opposition on the left, right and in the back of this parliament. we need our neighbouring countries to help us contain the ever-closer union aspirations of the leading parties in parliament, especially when the eu terminates the veto right of member states in the near future. certain member states are blocking the entrance into the eu of albania, kosovo and north macedonia, which will only continue to create resentment, giving leeway to china and russia. i urge the member states and politicians that are blocking this process to reconsider their stance. the eu needs to act fast and decisively if it wants to remain a credible factor in the western balkans.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the future of north macedonia and the western balkans lies in the european union. in times of uncertainty caused by this devastating pandemic, a european perspective helps these countries to become more stable. as vice-chair of the eu-north macedonia delegation and negotiator of the jean monnet dialogue, i believe that the continuation of this political dialogue in the sobranie is essential. this is the right instrument for strengthening democratic culture and democratic action. this will create a healthy political environment for the necessary reforms and implementation of eu directives. let us use the conference on the future of europe as an opportunity to bring north macedonia and the western balkans on board by involving them in the debate. if we are talking about the future of europe, we must also talk about the future of the western balkans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the enlargement of the eu to the western balkans is not likely to be a subject of debate today. the balkans are a highly fragile area where hostilities can only rest and re-emerge at any moment. to bring this additional potential for conflict into the eu is pure madness. but there are also countless reasons for opposing this renewed enlargement. the eu has so many problems of its own making and unresolved, which it should address first. the western balkan countries despite all the financial assistance still do not have compatible legal systems, corruption is still prevalent and the judiciary is not independent. millions of illegal migrants were simply smuggled into the eu. the balkans are also the main supplier of all firearms or illegal firearms in europe, according to the united nations. this is just the tip of the iceberg. the eu should therefore urgently focus on tackling its own problems rather than creating new ones.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 25 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. according to the international monetary fund, a narco-state is a country where all legal institutions are permeated by the power and wealth of the illegal drug trade. albania is a narco-state because drug trafficking and political power are very intertwined in this country. the drug lords are linked to the political elite and have a major influence on albania's development. this narco-state supplies germany with cannabis and cocaine, among other things. the ruling socialist party is also accused of corruption and links to organized crime. many young people are caught in a web of poverty and corruption. they have no hope of improvement and want to leave the country. there are nowhere more pro-eu people than in albania. most albanians want to join the eu. but i don't think joining is in our best interest. corruption and criminal machinations are rewarded. accession will lead to more poverty migration. moreover, joining the eu will only exacerbate the brain drain. there are many examples: romania, croatia, bulgaria. the green deal will also deepen the existing political divisions between western and eastern european countries. we're supposed to think of other solutions.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are dealing today with a country that is probably restricting freedom of expression through its corrupt system, and it is not hungary, it is not poland it is malta. this may also explain why it is relatively benign what is being proposed here, that there is no thought of cutting eu payments, as in cases of countries where journalists are not being killed. malta is a country that has been governed alternately by social democrats and christian democrats and where - or perhaps precisely because of this - a system and a thicket of corruption and crime has developed. this is a murder. after this murder has shaken civil society, now the police chief has resigned, we have discovered that the head of banking supervision has accepted bribes from a bank he was supposed to inspect, and it has become clear that a web of politics, regulatory institutions, police and business has emerged in malta that has nothing to do with a free market economy, with the rule of law, but more reminiscent of a third world oligarchy. and the question is, why are you acting like this? or vice versa: why are you so aggressive when it comes to conservative countries where, ironically, no journalists are killed, but where you use any kind of restriction of press freedom - whether it exists or not - as a reason to call for outright punitive expeditions? it is this miserable double standard of the leading groups here that is discrediting our entire european union and raising questions about how honest you are. malta, my dear colleague, is not the problem of all the groups in this house. malta is the problem of the established groups here in the house - the socialists and the christian democrats: it is their corruption, it is their corporatist economy, it is their thicket of corruption that daphne caruana galizia has blown up. it is not ours, it is not mr orbán's, it is not mr kaczyński's. we should have the courage to name the responsibilities. and the responsibilities have something to do with power security and arrogance, with not questioning one's position for too long. and this is the hallmark of socialists and christian democrats, but not of conservative bourgeois renewal movements, which they always attack to distract from their own failure, their own corruption and their own abuse of power. we're finally taking care of malta. but we're doing it way too gently, and we're not doing it hard enough. it would be appropriate to say what we are complaining about to the poles and hungarians, namely that we are demanding that the union's aid to this country be stopped if it is not finally cleaned up. i would like to ask the majority groups in this house to clean up their mess so that journalists do not have to die again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the terrible murder of daphne caruana galizia was an attack on freedom of the press throughout europe and on the rule of law, on the fight against corruption. and that's actually what i wanted to talk about today. and then i followed this debate here and i am sorry to note that in the s&d group, in the first speech, there is a distraction and talk about poland and hungary, and at the same time the right comes here and says: "there is not enough discussion about malta, you are always discussing hungary and poland". i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. so if someone from the right simply stands here and says 'well, this is a case that does not need to be dealt with by the left in this parliament', he is lying in practice! and that's actually something that we have to keep in mind here: this fight between back and forth, right and left -- it's about defending press freedom and the safety of journalists across europe. and that is why we should support the commission, and the commission alone, to actually do more to ensure that journalists are protected everywhere. and we must call on them to take even tougher action against rule of law crimes and finally to bring the rule of law mechanism ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the murder of daphne caruana galizia was not only a wound inflicted on the maltese people, it was a wound inflicted on the whole of europe. and what we're having today is a debate not to remember, but to move forward. because when the murderers were sitting in the socialist government building in malta, it means that there is something much more serious, that goes far beyond simple murder: there was a political plot to kill a journalist who was finding out something she wasn't supposed to find out, that the socialist government didn't want to be found out! that's why we have to move on, that's why it's important to discuss it now. and i think the socialist party family should also make a serious examination of conscience when it does not want to face these problems: the defence of the rule of law is the same throughout europe and the world. there are no states of rights that are more beautiful or less beautiful, but we must always and in any case defend the values in which we believe. that is why the european parliament is a commitment that i made as president must not let go of the daphne caruana galizia case. we want the truth! we must not bury our heads in the sand: the ostrich policy doesn't pay. we must encourage the adoption of the anti-slapp directive. we must help europol to do even more so that it never happens again in europe that a government is complicit in the murder of a journalist.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the assassination of daphne caruana galizia has been a wake-up call for malta to address the rule of law concerns and engage in reforms. malta has rolled out important reforms and it is key that it continues to consolidate them. many of you here repeated today that murders of journalists are unacceptable and intolerable in europe today. and i agree with those who said here that it is not the matter for party politics that we are speaking here about the universal value, which is freedom of press and freedom of speech and safety of journalists who work for the society. whenever i read new revelations about the fact that daphne caruana galizia was right in her work, i realise that she is still working for us now and she is still working for the truth. for us at eu level, we have already taken steps to improve the situation of journalists and the media. more specifically, we are currently working on two important initiatives. i have already mentioned, the first one. it’s the recommendation to member states on the safety of journalists. i haven’t spoken here today about the other initiative, which concerns the fight against abusive litigation against journalists and rights defenders, so-called ‘strategic lawsuits against public participation (slapp)’ cases. and again daphne caruana galizia is a stark reminder of this practice. she had 47 such lawsuits pending against her in malta and abroad at the moment of her assassination. journalists should spend their time by doing their investigative work and informing citizens by being the watchdogs of our democracies, not by fighting ingenious claims. we see the paradoxical situation as if the justice system turns against the freedom of speech. this is something we have to stop. recent revelations as regards the investigation over the assassination of daphne caruana galizia are important, but are not the end of this sad story. many questions remain still unanswered. all those responsible must be brought to justice and the whole truth must be fully repealed. also the public inquiry must continue unhindered. the commission is aware that a number of journalistic stories which she broke or worked on have led to criminal investigations, some of which have led to high-profile arrests. it underlines the critical importance of all maltese and other journalists who continue to hold those in power to account. it also shows the importance of the work of all those organisations which support them. i also salute those members of the european parliament who continue to keep media freedom and pluralism and the safety of journalists high on the eu’s agenda, and pledge the commission’s full support in this endeavour. i would like to thank you again for the cooperation. it is the responsibility of each and every one of us to defend the rule of law and to put bricks for the strengthening of our democracies.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession.
the next item is the debate on the report by markéta gregorová, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a union regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering, technical assistance and transit of dual-use items (recast) (com (2016) 0616 c8-0393/2016 2016/0295 (cod)) (a8-0390/2017).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i welcome this opportunity to debate the new eu export control regulation. when the co—legislator reached an agreement last november, it represented an important step forward for the geo—strategic ambition of the european union. by strengthening our exports control toolbox, we strengthen our capacity to protect our interests and our values. i particularly wish to thank the rapporteur, ms gregorová, but also the chair of the committee on international trade (inta), mr lange, for their key role in brokering this agreement. the new regulation will mean a comprehensive system upgrade in the development of the eu export controls. definitions are clarified, new concepts are introduced, licensing processes are simplified and harmonised and a new basis is provided for enhanced information exchange and transparency. it also strengthens our outreach to industry and dialogue with our partners. for the first time, eu autonomous controls are being introduced in our export control system. this new toolbox will allow the eu to start setting the agenda rather than simply implementing decisions taken at the multilateral level. we will have a strong foundation to engage with third countries to support the global level playing field and enhance international security through more convergent approaches to export controls at the global level. with the new regulation, eu export control will be fit for the digital age and i know this is a key priority for the european parliament. we will now have the tools to address human rights concerns associated with the trade in cyber—surveillance technologies. the eu already decided in july 2020 to tighten controls on the export of cyber—surveillance technologies to hong kong following the introduction of its national security law. in the course of this year, using the new provisions of the regulation, the commission will bring member states together to encourage further eu action on cyber—surveillance technology whose misuse leads to human rights violations. beyond cyber—surveillance, export controls are also a tool that can support our foreign and security policy objectives. our updated rules will allow the eu to be more active in striking the right balance between trade and security. we are not immune to the effect of export controls mobilised by others, notably as a part of the strategic competition between the us and china. and we cannot be indifferent when controls on emerging and foundational technologies have the potential to redefine the trade and technology map of the 21st century. the new regulation helps us to rise to this challenge and make our voice heard. work to develop an approach to the control of emerging technologies is now under way. this will allow us to mitigate risks associated with threats in potentially dangerous technologies and we stand ready to work with partners and allies to secure supply chains for strategic technologies. we know this is an area of particular interest for the biden administration. to conclude, honourable members, this regulation forms an important element of more assertive european approach to global trade issues. it will strengthen our hand in standing up for key european values. i look forward to hearing your views and i urge you to give this new strategic approach your full support.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i regret to say that i received an invitation from president sassoli at the very same time to speak to him about the culture of debate and the future, and i must therefore apologize for leaving the debate at once. but, ladies and gentlemen, when we vote today on this export control regulation, we are dealing with one of those subjects which are so technical and seem so far from the people. it's hard to explain what it's all about. the choice we make today has profound implications for the daily lives of many people around the world. it is a question of how we control the export of goods which can be used not only for civilian but also for military purposes. the innovation in this legislation is in the regulation of instruments, such as for digitalised warfare. we want to make it more difficult for autocrats to access europe's advanced technology in the future. but at the same time we europeans do not want to withdraw completely from development, to cut ourselves off from the world, to lose any influence in the world. in the negotiations we have managed to reach a compromise that creates legal certainty for smes and removes unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles - while at the same time setting standards for europeans worldwide. this is a success. i therefore ask you to approve this innovative instrument.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, dual-use goods and technologies are generally sold for a legitimate use and often provide a public or economic benefit, but they may also be put to military use. the eu is now proposing to tighten existing strict export controls with a particular focus on digital surveillance technology. this proposal also introduces human rights violations as a ground for export bans. authoritarian regimes should not be aided or abetted in suppressing opposition or limiting free speech. that’s all very well. however, there are two problems here. first, the covid crisis has shown that the eu is heavily dependent on us and chinese imports of digital surveillance and other dual—use technology. if the eu really wishes to catch up, it is shooting itself in the foot if it forgoes export opportunities. secondly, if we ban the use of such technology, do we really think that the whole world is following us?
mr president, i would like you to reconsider your decision to rule inadmissible amendment 39 on the discharge report for the european parliament as it doesn’t fulfil any of the criteria in rule 181(1). we have actually explicitly checked with the legal service before tabling this amendment, and i have a written note from the legal service saying that it doesn’t raise any legal concerns. so i think it would be good to put it to a vote in this house.
i have to say, madam president, honor those to whom honor is due. turkey is not responsible for the latest protocol breach in ankara. when the twitter fog lights up, we'll see that this was all domestic production. the problem is that the commission has not yet but this incident revealed much more than what we saw. it revealed the shallowness of our bilateral relations and the deficiencies within ourselves. it has shown that we ourselves have much to learn about the treatment of women in positions of responsibility, and it has also shown that we have not only thought about what we have seen, but also about much more, such as the withdrawal of the convention on the protection of women. and we have been thinking of the same kind of threatening gestures from warsaw. we have seen a breakdown in protocol, but we have thought about the progressive erosion of democracy in turkey, about the prisoners in turkish prisons and about our own helplessness. and so the sofa went from being a piece of protocol furniture to a symbol, it became a collective therapy sofa for both sides - turkey and the eu. now for the consequences: we need to have a positive agenda, and our positive agenda is clear: our positive agenda is a democracy agenda, our positive agenda is a women's rights agenda and a positive civil society agenda. this must be the consequence, and not just in the sense of deeply concerned, but of clear clear! conditions towards ankara.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i don't want to talk about the sofa gate. i want to talk about the thing itself. mr michel, you have told us what you talked about, but not a word about what you actually discussed and negotiated in ankara. the council and the commission want to show us that there can be a positive development in relations with turkey. what are these pleas, except that maybe mr. erdoğan and the regime will stop with foreign provocations now? what about human rights? when we talk about turkey, we are not just talking about the lack of rule of law, the restriction of freedom of the press and of expression, or the imprisonment of oppositionists, we are also talking about a lasting, resilient hope in the country. we're talking about an opposition for democracy, peace and social justice. but on that visit to ankara, mrs von der leyen, you told this broad and diverse opposition: no, you cannot count on us. you gave the regime the green light to take more brutal action against these people, and that is not acceptable. why did you do that? for geopolitical interests, for capital interests, for power issues and also because of the refugee deal. this is a disgrace - i say this openly and honestly - for the nobel peace prize winner eu. today, 108 hdp mps are on trial in turkey for their kobanê solidarity. the point was that kurds and progressive forces there were in solidarity with the resistance, while jihadists were beheaded. i urge you to show solidarity with the opposition in turkey!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the excitement about the so-called sofa gate is great, because when it comes to the disadvantage of women, the fun for the eu ends actually quite rightly, but only actually. because the unlawful attacks in syria, including the displacement of hundreds of thousands, including murder and rape, should actually weigh more than this faux pas, or the constant blackmail by illegal migrants on the border with greece. but here too, the eu's criticism remains worryingly reserved. there are never any consequences, the ridiculous pseudo-actions can hardly be called such. instead, erdoğan is rewarded with three and a half billion euros, paid between 2014 and 2020 as part of the eu accession talks. the eu is de facto funding expulsion, rape and murder. the eu's so often quoted alleged values must, for once, be followed by action: the accession talks must be terminated and we must impose effective sanctions until erdoğan withdraws from syria and libya.
i have to say, madam president, when you, madam president of the commission, were not offered a seat of equal standing, there was a great deal of excitement. the excitement was great because we as women can only understand so well what it means to be belittled, to be pushed aside, because that's what happens to us every day: from missing a seat at the bargaining table to lower pay, triple burden, to domestic violence. we see and feel discrimination every day. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. when it comes to implementing the directive on women on boards, push your colleagues on the board, push them! the european union is also committed to the ratification of the istanbul convention, as there is so much to do in the prevention of violence package. do your part to ensure that there are enough chairs for women everywhere in the future!
madam president, mr president, sofagate was a deeply embarrassing and wholly avoidable incident. manspreading at the highest level. the images are devastating and enough has been said about that. but we have to see beyond the images, because it wasn’t just a sexist incident, it was also an interinstitutional incident with the commission literally taking a back seat to the council. and not only in ankara. too often the commission itself accepts a subservient role to the council when it refuses to apply the rule of law conditionality to discipline the european mini erdoğans in our midst as it handles with velvet gloves the governments who trample on women’s rights, who harass independent judges or who intimidate journalists. madam president, you have my support if you claim your place as a woman – the support of many here – but i also hope that you will claim your place as the independent eu institution vis-à-vis the member states. finally, colleagues, to ourselves, i find that the cosy tête-à-tête of the conference of presidents with ms von der leyen and mr michel is severely misguided. accountability is to the citizens, in public and here.
madam president, i say to the presidents of the commission and the council: what happened in ankara is shameful. president michel, indifference to the first female president of the commission being snubbed was outrageous. but the real reason the incident happened in the first place is that the institutions that presidents von der leyen and michel represent have lost their moral compass and dictators like erdoğan or putin know it. what were you doing in turkey only weeks after they had withdrawn from the istanbul convention anyway? why this zest to befriend an authoritarian regime that oppresses opposition, prosecutes minorities and humiliates women? today in ankara a false trial has started that seeks to keep 108 political prisoners, elected representatives like mr demirtaş, in jail for life, in an open defiance of the echr. when will you say ‘enough is enough’?
madam president, the visit to turkey was not a successful visit. we were not the protagonists of the events, nor even their managers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr biden and the united states are the protagonists. we are mere stewards of the events. in europe we believe in the values of democracy, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, religious freedom, international law, good neighbourly relations. turkey does not respect the principles and values in which we believe and which we serve, and we have not vigorously defended, mr michel and mrs von der leyen, the principles and values which we represent in the european union, in our great european family.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am very sorry for what you have had to endure in turkey, and it is truly tragic how you, representing many hundreds of millions of women in the european union, have been humiliated there. for many weeks now, there has been a rumour in this house, but also throughout the european union, about what it was. and, mr president, the mistake was ours. it was with us in the european parliament and - and this must be addressed very clearly here - in your minutes team. a mistake that should never have happened, because you and mrs. von der leyen have decades of professional experience. i ask you: you do not have to apologize to us meps and perhaps to mrs von der leyen for your behaviour, but perhaps for yourself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and my colleagues for their constructive cooperation. it is not least thanks to the good cooperation that we have been able to achieve an extraordinary result on the eit, which will certainly receive broad support in the vote tomorrow. i would therefore like to make a few brief comments on a number of points which were central to us greens. this includes embedding the fight against climate change and the sustainable development goals in the mission statement under the objective 'setting', both for the eit and its kics, as this implies a clear commitment to contribute to the implementation of the european green deal and to drive forward the paris agreement, the sustainability goals and the achievement of a climate-neutral economy by 2050, through concrete impulses. the improvement in the ex post evaluation of measures, including an examination of their long-term effects, is undoubtedly an advance. to achieve these effects and also to have a long-term impact in other areas, adequate financial resources are needed, and this was one of the many reasons why i was a strong advocate of a strong research budget overall. because that is the only way we can ensure our prosperity here in the eu in the long term. i also welcome the structural development of the kics. the new rules will require clubs to be more transparent in their decision-making, in their management and in their decision-making processes. another innovation with positive potential is the pilot project of the innovation programme for universities, through which the kics will make a greater contribution to bridging the gap, which is still sometimes wide, between the three sides of the knowledge triangle. i hope that this will help us to bring more entrepreneurship and innovation to the universities, and i hope that the project will be extended after three successful years. but scientific excellence is an integral part of horizon europe. the optimal promotion of these is thus a guiding principle for the activities of the kics and should, in my view, also be the crucial basis for good location choices.
madam president, today is a good day because, exceptionally and for the first time in two years, members are asked to approve an act that’s not patently undemocratic, doesn’t cost billions of taxpayers’ money and isn’t altogether unlawful. that an agreement was reached at all is in no small measure the achievement of michel barnier and his realism, diplomatic acumen and great perseverance. it shows that the eu may yet serve a purpose if it focuses on commerce and trade and appoints someone who knows what he’s doing. the eu commenced trade negotiations with maximum demands for ecj jurisdiction over any trade deal, full regulatory alignment on eu terms and pre-brexit fishing rights: unprecedented demands hitherto never asked of any trade partner. britain simply wanted a canada—style deal, regulatory independence and legal sovereignty. eventually the eu gave way on the ecj omnipotence in return for uk acceptance of the regulatory status quo. instead of dynamic regulatory alignment, the uk agreed to a limited non—regression mechanism that allows for eu sanctions to offset higher eu costs imposed by a green deal not binding on the uk. such trade sanctions leave britain to trade freely with other countries and uk sovereignty is not unduly abridged. the deal mitigates disruption to supply chains and to eu—uk trade. it is vital to ireland and beneficial to most parties concerned. the majority resolution welcomes these facts and hails the deal as an eu negotiating success, though it fails to mention that the tca prevents eu consumers from offsetting higher so-called sustainable prices with cheaper imports. sadly, there’s no law against self—harm. the resolution also calls britain’s withdrawal from the eu an historic mistake, which will impede the growth of the uk’s large service sector. let’s look at the facts. it is early days but, according to the imf, the uk economy is expected to recover to pre-covid levels by mid—2022, based on 6% growth this and next year, compared with a partial annual 4% eu recovery, and, while uk long—term unemployment should average 2% next year, it is 4.2% for the eurozone. simply by leaving, the uk is now saving eur 14 billion in terms of budget contributions each year, eur 17 billion for the sure unemployment programme and a staggering eur 140 billion gross contributions for non-participation in next generation eu. britain’s relative success is manifest above all in its vaccination programme. seventy percent of all uk adults have been vaccinated, three times as many as in the eurozone. as a result, life is returning to normal in the uk, while many eu countries remain locked down. if brexit is a success, it will be the beginning of the unravelling of the eu. this was, and remains, the view of many here. well then, brexit seems, at least initially, a success and the historic mistake may have been the euro. today, more british people think brexit was the right choice more than the 52% who voted for it. the eu too has a choice. either it reforms, focuses again on trade and commerce, and it may succeed again, or its leaders continue down the path of saving the planet and of integrating our continent by de—europeanising it, and then it will fail. it will fail, no matter what, either as an integrated superstate, lingering on as a vast stagflation zone, or it will falter with one half—solvent country after another taking heart from britain’s proof that life is possible outside the eu after all, and with modern germany left as the last member standing like a blinded cyclops raging about whose fault it is. the answer of course was given by odysseus: nobody but yourself. generosity over northern ireland will be a good way to start reform. the withdrawal agreement is hampering uk imports and has led to violence in belfast. let’s respect the belfast agreement in full and let’s have a soft irish and a soft irish sea border.
the commission has already done so. i would like to say a few words about the nature of the agreement. the agreement is not static and ready, it is becoming a living agreement, a living agreement. it is constantly evolving, creating tens of new bodies, and these bodies are the ones that make the most political decisions. nice and good. the crux of the matter is that the european parliament is only given a role at the cat-table. we are the ones who, together with the council, must have the last democratic word in legislation and who must ensure that decisions on pesticide residues or the recognition of professional qualifications are taken here in this house and not in some opaque committees. what has already been shown in other trade agreements, such as ceta, is being pushed to the fore in the agreement with the united kingdom: more and more power for the executive, for the commission and also for the council, and parliament and thus the public are left out. we members must today demand our right and our duty to democratically control the agreement, because democracy cannot be delegated to any committees. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i ask the commission today: anchor these very points in an interinstitutional agreement and please do not bow to the council, because those who want to prevent the democratic role of the european parliament at the moment are the eu member states.
mr president, robert alan arthur said intercultural dialogue is the best guarantee for a peaceful, just and sustainable world. this intercultural dialogue is the essence of our european union. however, this intercultural dialogue, at least with the uk, is endangered and has been endangered more than it must. the uk leaves the erasmus+, a programme that not just brings european students together, but ensures youth empowerment and education in every single member state. the uk doesn’t have to leave erasmus, other non-eu countries are also part of it. but it does so because johnson wants to cut the intercultural dialogue of the next generation. one that, by the way, mostly voted to remain. the uk also leaves creative europe, a programme for cultural cooperation. it doesn’t have to leave cultural europe because other non-eu countries are also part of it, but the uk does so because mr johnson wants to cut the intercultural dialogue. but johnson’s brexit deal doesn’t just hurt those who voted to remain but also the leavers. the esf and the cohesion funds are missing and the people in remote and de-industrialised regions are hurt by it. fishing doesn’t work as intended and the scientific exchanges are endangered as well. brexit only has losers and that’s a shame, but we have to do the best we can with it for the future.
mr president, today, we are starting a new chapter in our relations with the uk. european programmes are the best way to build a continuously strong relationship. we welcome the continued uk participation in the research programme horizon and in the copernicus programme. but brexit is a particularly harsh blow to the younger generation. the younger generation voted overwhelmingly to remain. they want to build a common european future. it’s a crying shame to exclude british students from the erasmus programme. prime minister johnson, you lied to the younger generation by saying that erasmus wasn’t under threat. you took away important experiences from them and to all young brits and especially our welsh and scottish friends, we will not let you down. as soon as majorities change we are ready to welcome you back.
mr president, i still remember very well 30 january of last year, the day when we said farewell to our british colleagues in this house. many tears were shed that day and many tears have followed elsewhere – the tears of british citizens who had to leave their homes in spain, young people who couldn’t live their dream of studying abroad, and the many at the northern irish—irish border who see violence again in their region. it is the citizens on both sides of the channel that we should give our special attention to, as we are the people’s house. many lives are affected by brexit on both sides of the channel, especially the many eu citizens in the uk and uk citizens in the eu. we owe it to the people – to the uk citizens and to the eu citizens – to do everything to fulfil the promise upon which the european union once was founded: peace and trustful cooperation. we need to act in good faith, we need to work together on the world stage, and we need to always bear in mind that, while in some fields the uk and the european union have now become competitors, in the overwhelming majority of arenas, we are still allies. so i say it with a german and a british heart: let’s get it on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with the agreement, we are finally preventing a hard brexit. the road to here was rocky. much more should have been achieved. but, again, the smart one gives in. give in, not give up! the pompous london bacon will take the breach of contract case. because it cannot be that the johnson government is continually breaking the withdrawal agreement, breaking the northern ireland protocol. but this ratification is the beginning of the future relationship between the eu and the united kingdom. the european parliament wants to give people legal certainty. we must prevent further violence, particularly in northern ireland. where fronts are hardened, where minds are heated, perspectives of commonality and of connection between people should arise, and that is where it must go now. the replacement of erasmus plus is particularly urgent, so that the exchange of pupils and students can continue without obstacles, for a common young generation open to the world. our parliament will remain on the ball, hopefully along with many of our british colleagues, so that a united europe has a strong partner in the united kingdom.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, i cannot see you, but perhaps you are on, ladies and gentlemen. i had the honour of participating in the discharge procedure as rapporteur and thus drafting the discharge report on the commission's 2019 budget. the discharge procedure is clearly laid down in article 319 tfeu and in articles 260 et seq. of the financial regulation. the correct use of eu funds by the budgetary authorities should be checked and, if necessary, they should be definitively relieved of financial responsibility. my draft included objective figures, calculations and explanations. i took up some of the court's valid criticisms, particularly on cohesion. i criticised the unsatisfactory absorption rates and the absurdly high commitments to be settled, at eur 298 billion. the draft resolution also criticised irregularities in the distribution of funds, for example to non-governmental organisations that support the glorification of islamic terrorism or radicalisation in the middle east. i have proposed ways of improving control and transparency, and sanctions and reimbursement to avoid future irregularities and fraud. unfortunately, the majority of my colleagues on the committee and those from other groups have completely distorted my report by ideologising amendments: my report was only 60 pages long. it has already been blown up almost beyond recognition in the committee on budgetary control by 840 amendments totalling 172 pages. the amendments which you have tabled today make my objective and apolitical discharge report a political manifesto once and for all. for example, the word "gender" is now mentioned 76 times, the word "climate" 75 times; the word 'irregularities' appears only 24 times, the word 'sanctions' appears only twice and the term 'zero tolerance for fraud' appears exactly zero times. gender mainstreaming, eu superstate, lgbt and climate change are now prominently featured in the report. but in the interests of the taxpayers, it would be important to highlight how we avoid fraud, irregularities and illegal spending of taxpayers' money. so i ask myself: why do you always and everywhere make gender mainstreaming policies but don't really advocate for families? why do you see discrimination everywhere but remain silent when it comes to the lives of unborn children? why do you promote this eu civic religion instead of those virtues that made europe not the eu successful? my fellow citizens! what's all this? it is a discharge report, not a political manifesto, and it is the 2019 budget of the european commission, not the new multiannual financial framework or even the so-called reconstruction fund or the green deal. i now turn to you, mr president lehne, of the european court of auditors. what do you say to this development? your house has put a lot of work into the audit of the eu commission's budget. they even produced a - i think - very useful and informative performance report this time. thank you very much for that too. and then the court of auditors finds some really serious deficiencies and what happens? i didn't say anything. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also thank the hardworking staff of the cont committee secretariat: thank you for your constructive support in the discharge procedure. i wonder, however, what you were thinking when you had to convert hundreds of amendments into political compromise proposals. you don't have to do that, do you? and what my colleague - whom i thank very much for her work - said about these amendments, i shall not repeat here. my fellow citizens! the discharge of the european commission is a right that the european parliament has fought hard to win. now you are, in a sense, trampling on that right. they are turning the initially objective and expert report on the discharge into a collectivist communist manifesto. this is a slap in the face to all the hardworking people and taxpayers in the eu member states. they are turning my report into a paper against nation states. they call for an ever closer and more powerful eu. they are turning my report into a piece of paper that is aimed at homeowners and motorists, because by increasing 'climate-related spending' construction costs, heating costs and fuel prices will become even more expensive. and finally, you're turning my report into a piece of paper that devalues families. your gender fanaticism is a deliberate and targeted attack on millions of families who want to live by christian values and virtues. all this has nothing to do with the original report i made. i shall therefore vote against this report, bound by my conscience and the will of my constituents.
the reporter. madam president, first of all, i would like to say that this annual democratic control we have over the spending of the budgets by the european institutions is very important. we are talking about an annual budget of over eur 165 billion for the union and we have a duty to be totally transparent about how we spend this money and to explain to the citizens what the added value of this money is, because indeed we must always insist that this european budget, of just over 1% of gdp, is little in the way of the expectations that citizens have of the union, but it is one that brings clear benefits to citizens. overall, what we found in this budgetary control exercise is that european money is being spent efficiently and that there are sufficient mechanisms to prevent abuse. but we must not forget that in reality more than 80% of the european budget is spent at national level, where the quality of control can vary considerably. i am therefore pleased that the european public prosecutor's office will soon become operational and will strengthen the union's capacity to control and investigate possible fraud. as regards the european external action service, for which i am rapporteur, i would like to draw your attention in particular to a problem which has persisted for many years. this is due to major geographical and gender imbalances in staff, particularly in management. for example, the best-represented member state has more senior posts in the service than all 13 countries that joined the union after 2004. romania, the country from which i come, has not a single citizen in a leadership position in the entire headquarters of the service. also, less than 30% of management positions are held by women. these imbalances are clearly unacceptable and worrying, not only from the perspective of those under-represented but also from the perspective of the wider union, which is thus lacking in competence and a balanced understanding of the diplomatic challenges. i hope you will work to correct these imbalances, commissioner, which exist not only at the service level but also at the commission level.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. mr president of the court! i am the rapporteur for the agency together with my predecessor, mr brudziński, and for joint ventures and the european development fund. i'll start with the agency. the court delivered an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts of all the agencies. the court also delivered an unqualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts of all the agencies and an unqualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts of the agencies except acer the european union agency for the regulation of energy regulators and the european asylum support office easo. on the outcome side, the network of european union agencies has set up a task force on shared services and a strategic proposal for a shared service option 2.0 to encourage inter-agency cooperation and support. in relation to procurement, the court made more than 80 observations, discussing areas for improvement in 29 agencies. most of the comments concern shortcomings in the public procurement procedures, as was the case a year ago. these shortcomings relate mainly to sound financial management and regularity. at the end of 2018, most agencies reported that they had implemented the revised internal control framework and had carried out an annual assessment. however, we call for the adoption and implementation of internal control boards by all agencies, not the majority, in order to align their internal controls with international best practice and to ensure that internal control effectively supports the decision-making process. let us now concentrate on the issues concerning frontex, the eu agency which is based in poland, in warsaw, from where i have the honour to speak. i would like to start by pointing out that the agency is leading the initiative to create a common liaison office space in brussels for agencies working in the field of justice and home affairs, in order to make efficient use of resources and share facilities and services and to promote networking. in addition, the agency through its inspection and control office participates in the performance development network of the eu agencies network. the agency also participates in the network of procurement officers of the agencies, assessing interinstitutional tenders in terms of needs and financial resources. i would then like to highlight the actions already taken and currently being implemented by the agency to ensure transparency, prevent and manage conflicts of interest and protect whistleblowers. this whistleblowing policy was adopted, i remind you, two years ago, in july 2019. however, there are some shortcomings in the agency's recruitment policy. we expect improvement here. i propose we discharge all agencies. now the joint ventures: all the financial statements relating to the joint ventures have been approved by the court of auditors the president can confirm this which means that the financial statements are presented in a reliable manner and that there are no material errors in the transactions on the revenue side in accordance with accounting principles. however, there are many areas that need to be improved. for example, while the internal control mechanisms for payments were generally effective and allowed to keep the error rate below 2%, there were persistent shortcomings in the procurement procedures, grant payments and recruitment procedures for several joint ventures. in addition, the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. so far, on average, only 51% of the actions have been implemented, i.e. three years before the end of the programme, or more than half of the actions planned under the programme in question. however, it should also be noted that at the end of the year in question, the joint undertakings under the action had completed most of the procedures for calls for proposals and had already awarded contracts or signed contracts for an average of 78% of the planned actions. finally, as regards the f4t joint ventures, namely iter and the development of thermonuclear energy, i note that for the second year in a row the european union-co-financed thermonuclear energy project in france is threatened with further increases in costs and delays in implementation compared to the objectives currently adopted. in addition, shortcomings in the procurement and human resources and project management of joint undertakings carry the risk of far-reaching operational inefficiencies. finally, as regards the european development fund, i am concerned about the court's available opinion on the legality of expenditure, but i am pleased with the results achieved in favour of the public policy relating to it in order to promote common growth and aid, especially social and geographical situations, and - and i really end here - with the results achieved by the union in its contribution to the achievement of objective 13, enhanced development and the fight against corruption, and the results achieved through the mobilisation of evidence... (the president cut the speaker off)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for all the very detailed presentations. the council attaches great value to the discharge exercise. it is important that the eu funds are used according to the rules and that expenditure respects the principles of sound financial management. on 1 march, mr rui alves, our financial counsellor, had the honour of presenting to the committee on budgetary control the council’s recommendation to grant discharge to the commission for the financial year 2019. i hope this plenary will come to the same conclusions. honourable members, allow me to remind you that the council recommendation to grant discharge of the commission was adopted on 16 february 2021, along with discharge recommendations for decentralised agencies, executive agencies and joint undertakings. the debate on the committee on budgetary control showed that the council and parliament share the same concerns regarding the management of the eu budget. we also share, i’m sure, the point of view that our recommendations should be followed up and implemented by all actors without delay. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to three elements of the council recommendation. first, we have after a number of years, an adverse opinion on the expenditure. the council regrets this. it also regrets the fact that the overall error continues to be above materiality, above 2%. however, given the improvements observed, notably in sub-heading 1b (cohesion), and in natural resources, including agriculture, the overwhelming majority of member states still thought that it would be appropriate to grant discharge to the commission for 2019. secondly, our recommendation this year has a different structure that mirrors, to a certain extent, the separate report by the court on the performance of the spending programmes under the eu budget. we see evaluating performance as a useful exercise and we call on both the court and the commission to continue to work as necessary to assess the true value delivered to eu citizens. discussions continue about the form and the scope of this exercise, and the council follows them with great interest. certainly, while 2019 is not the last year of the previous multiannual financial framework, we need to acknowledge that the covid-19 crisis created a fault line. the huge implications for 2020 and for the current mff could not be ignored in the council recommendation. we are worried about its effect on the availability of payment appropriations and on the exposure of the eu budget. therefore, we call on the commission to closely monitor the payment needs and reassess the mechanism available to mitigate further exposures, taking into account the context of the crisis and the measures adopted to fight this effect. there is one more thing i would like to point out in the council’s recommendation before i end my speech. we ask the court again to help us compare the situation between years within each policy area. we have heard the arguments of the court about the costs of proper sampling an error rate calculation in all headings, but we still think this should be the main drive of the action of the court, to present the council and parliament, and, of course, eu citizens, a concrete, comparable picture of the way eu money is managed. finally, let me conclude by thanking you, honourable members of parliament, for all your thorough work on discharge. i would also like to extend my thanks to the commission and to the court of auditors and all those who contribute to the good management of eu funds. we may have different positions, but we all share the same goal: to show europeans that the union works, that the money spent by the union is not wasted and is used to achieve tangible results that could not otherwise be achieved. it is not easy, and there is certainly room for improvement, so let’s keep up the good work.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear president lehne, dear minister, honourable members of the european parliament, i also would like to thank, on behalf of the commission, the european parliament and, in particular, the committee on budgetary control and here especially the rapporteurs for this constructive discharge procedure. in particular, i would like to thank ms hohlmeier for her dedicated work as the chair of the committee on budgetary control. the european union budget is relatively small but powerful as it creates european added value and achieves results which each member state on its own could not achieve. the 2019 discharge report acknowledges that the financial management of the european union budget has improved over time. the report also highlights issues where further improvements are needed and i welcome your clear stance on some important aspects of the implementation and performance. allow me to comment on some of the issues you have highlighted as political priorities in this report. first, as regards the avoidance of conflicts of interest, the commission has recently adopted and published a guidance note aiming at promoting a uniform interpretation and application of the rules on avoidance of conflicts of interest under the direct, indirect and shared management. this will be a useful tool for member states as they are setting up their management and control processes for the new programmes. the commission is also following up on information or complaints of alleged cases of conflicts of interest in the member states and has kept the committee on budgetary control regularly informed of the progress of such cases. let me turn to my second point, which relates to information on beneficiaries of european union funds. as you know, important progress was achieved in the type of information which has to be gathered by member states on recipients of funds, implemented under shared management and under the recovery and resilience facility, including also beneficial ownerships. for this, the commission is very grateful to the european parliament. unfortunately, the final legal texts didn’t make use of a single data mining and risk assessment tool obligatory although this could be most useful and effective in detecting cases of fraud and irregularities. the commission will therefore do its best to encourage member states to use such tools and is reflecting on further actions to enhance the quality and interoperability of data on beneficiaries and final recipients of union funding. i would also like to underline that the commission takes any allegation or suspicion concerning the misuse or mismanagement of funds very seriously and all complaints regarding alleged fraudulent spending should be addressed to the european anti—fraud office (olaf). the commission can and will take all necessary measures to protect the union budget, including suspension of payments or other applicable rules and apply financial corrections. the commission takes the request in the discharge resolution very seriously and will report on the follow—up. to conclude, i would like to reassure you that the european commission upholds the highest standards of transparency and accountability and is committed to ensure that the union budget is spent in line with the rules and with the highest standards with regard to performance and results. ultimately, our success depends on finding the right balance between a low level of error, fast payments, reasonable costs of controls and finally, of course, added value of the european budget.
president of the european court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak here today, in the presence of the rapporteur for the annual report of the european court of auditors, mr tony murphy, in this discharge debate. i think it is also a recognition of the work of the court of auditors that such a great debate can take place here in such difficult times. the annual report of the european court of auditors served as a basis for your detailed work and i am pleased that my colleagues and i have been able, as in every year, to accompany and support parliament in the fulfilment of this extremely important political task entrusted to it by the treaties. as set out in our strategy for the coming years, ensuring robust audit assurance in a challenging and changing environment remains a key priority for the court. the budgetary context of your decision could not be more sensitive. the ratification of the new own resources decision in the member states is not yet complete, but fortunately many obstacles have already been overcome. public debt has risen significantly in the current pandemic and citizens expect the eu budget and the new funds that the commission will raise in the markets to be used wisely and correctly. we should use the situation created by the current pandemic to improve our systems, to promote digitalisation in the management of eu funds in all member states, to use eu funds more effectively and efficiently, and to do more to combat fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest. ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also congratulate parliament for the fact that it has seamlessly incorporated performance aspects relating to various european union policies into its resolution. as decision-makers, you must prepare for the future multiannual financial framework and at the same time learn from the previous one whose payments, as you know, will continue for several years continuously. i also note the many specific requests that are directly related to the methodology and work of the court, some of which i have heard - and this is not surprising - for the first time: requests for geographically specific information, for the examination of procedures, for specific error rates, for corrective measures or even for an accelerated timetable. i can assure you that in line with our strategy we are seeking to complement the quantitative information in our annual report with qualitative elements based on the results of specific audits on systems and compliance with regulations. in this context, we will also take into account the corrective capacity of the bodies we audit. our efforts will be to make the most efficient use of the resources devoted to the trust statement in our audit activity. this of course includes the increased use of data and it tools and technologies, for which we will identify and implement potential in the short term in our audits of the reliability of accounting and our audits of the regularity of revenue and administrative expenditure. in our audit approach, we will continue to take into account that the level of risk remains significantly different across the different policy areas of the european union. to this end, we will assess these risks and any other available information in the planning and conduct of our evidence-based audit activities. in the period 2021-2025, we will make the most of the work carried out by the audited bodies and other auditors, wherever they are reliable, in order to use our resources more efficiently and to reduce the administrative burden, including for beneficiaries. in addition, some of the new audit ideas proposed to this parliament would require a lot of extra work and therefore additional resources that we would have to invest in our statement of assurance. the court is constantly striving to increase the efficiency of its work, both in the preparation of the declaration of assurance and, of course, in the context of the economic tests. but efficiency gains alone will not cope with the increased workload resulting from 'next generation eu' and sure, nor will it be able to meet your needs. i therefore welcome the request by parliament to provide more staff for the court - a request which we also made in our draft estimate for 2022. i would also like to take this opportunity to address the commission as the body responsible for consolidating and bringing together the budgetary estimates of the other institutions: like the commissioner, we are of course aware that resources are scarce and that budgetary discipline is necessary. as an organ, we have consistently demonstrated this rigor over the past few years. however, in the light of the court's efforts to ensure adequate staffing for the examination of the 'next generation eu' and other pressing challenges, we are determined to convince the budgetary authority, the parliament and the council of our position on this matter. it is a common sense consequence that, with a budget almost doubled in a few years, the same audit density cannot be achieved with the same resources. i think we owe it to the european taxpayer and to the citizens as a whole to ensure that there is adequate control, including by the external auditor. as regards the court's audit of the european investment bank, your draft resolution is particularly notable in its call for increased scrutiny and accountability - things we have always supported. i would therefore like to conclude by briefly informing you of the state of play of the recent tripartite talks we have had to review our audit arrangements in the so-called tripartite agreement. the technical discussions are progressing well and i am cautiously optimistic that we will reach an agreement before the summer on the problems we have been facing in our examinations on an ongoing basis. i should also like to thank president hoyer for his constructive attitude in this respect.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as rapporteur for the committee on development, i am pleased that we are getting a new instrument - a tool to bring our external activities together: global europe. international policy is being consolidated, the european development fund is being integrated into the eu budget. the responsibility for this house, for our committee, for participating in the programming, for monitoring the implementation of our initiatives in the eyes of the legislators, is therefore increasing. and that means we're going to reinforce what we've done in the past: look closely! for example, will we overcome the current crisis - now the pandemic? let's focus on the poorest countries and make sure they renew their health systems, rebuild their economies and align with the goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. we are ready for this and we are taking on this new responsibility.
draft opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. madam president, in my work i have focused on dismissals from agencies falling under the remit of the employment and social affairs committee: osha, eurofound, cedefop, etf and the european commission. i have no major comments on the financial operations and the court of auditors also considers that the transactions are legal and the financial position of the agencies is fairly presented. of course, there is always room for improvement. i think it's positive that the agencies are trying to cut costs by joining the group and the network of agencies. this also avoids duplication of similar tasks. i expect the agencies to respond to the warnings and optimise their operations, and this of course also applies to the european commission. the european institutions must do their job professionally - that is, first of all - and efficiently, but they must spend the money rationally and transparently, because it is the money of all europeans.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – madam president, first of all i will talk for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) part. i think the most important message that we have from the environment committee, which also includes public health, is that we see a huge expansion of tasks in these fields, both within the commission with the green deal priorities and for the agencies that are working on these issues. here we take into consideration the eea, on the green deal priorities, but also – and i think this is a point that we really need to discuss – the huge expansion of tasks for health agencies, and in particular the european medicines agency (ema) and the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). we are now in negotiations to expand the mandates of those agencies but what we have seen up to now – and it’s a pity that the state secretary has just left, as this is a very important message to the council – is that so far the council has always said that agencies can do with less money. we are running into problems here. we are expecting more from the agencies on the green deal and on health issues, but at the same time the agencies are not given the possibility to do more. we are running at the edge of what they can achieve and what they can hold up to. a thorough discussion on this is really needed in the council because this cannot continue as it is. i think that is a very important message that we have to give if we really are serious about expanding the task for the agencies as we are currently discussing. that was my first part. in my second part i’m acting as a spokesperson for the greens and am looking at the discharge of the different agencies. there i would like to focus mainly on the frontex agency because in the report we are suspending the discharge for frontex. i think this is mainly because of concerns on the delayed recruitment of the fundamental rights monitors, but also because of concerns over complicity with human right violations. we demand that we see progress from the frontex agency because this is absolutely crucial. also here, the mandate of frontex has been expanded, but we have not yet seen frontex dealing with it appropriately. that is why you will see that we are suspending our discharge until we have the results of research that parliament is undertaking with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) which we would like to see first, and that is of the utmost political importance.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the 2019 financial year to finance the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2019 in the areas of transport, energy, transport and tourism. firstly, we are concerned about the poor state of implementation of the cef. by january 2020, only 31% of the initially allocated funds had been disbursed over six years of funding, putting the completion of the core network corridor, including new railway lines, motorways and cross-border connections, in question. what this problem is, we could see during the early days of the pandemic, when the border crossings within the european union were blocked, delaying the transport of medical supplies. second point: we are calling for consideration, but i think this is a very important topic, of creating a new budget line for tourism, the sector of the economy most affected by the crisis. i think that for many regions, especially those where tourism is the main source of income, this is very important, and we believe that this sector should receive the appropriate support from the eu budget, especially as tourism is mainly small, family businesses. of course we are in favour of voting for the discharge.
reporting for opinion, committee on transport and tourism madam president, as rapporteur for the european parliament, on behalf of the tran commission, rapporteur for the opinions of the three agencies and the three joint undertakings which are related to the committee's competence, as i said in the opinions, i would like to congratulate the court of auditors for having captured all the important aspects related to the management of money in these undertakings. i would like to point out first of all that the specific key performance indicators of horizon 2020 were used. obviously, as i have written in my opinions, i have recommended to the european commission and the court of auditors to develop a detailed method for monitoring performance in all joint undertakings and agencies, to calculate the social impact on the workforce, which is very important, but also the impact on the market. i have to say that there are also some areas that need to be improved, for example, transparency. i found that in some agencies and joint ventures, we don't put cvs for board members - cvs, but also data. also, one thing that i have complained about every time is gender balance and geographical balance and i hope that this is corrected by the commission, because now it is not ethical and fair, from the point of view of gender balance and geographical balance.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. – madam president, i would like to pick up on a point that was already mentioned. both in cult and in libe we had an intense discussion on frontex and the discharge and i would like to emphasise again that it’s not the agency itself that has been called into question. we hear rumours and allegations, conflicting statements, discussions about the internal management, and that’s why the postponement of the discharge, besides not concerning the year in question, is understandable. it gives us in the frontex scrutiny group time to assess the allegation and take into account the information provided by different actors. besides, my approach remains constructive. frontex is an integral part of our security policy and effective border controls are key to that. that’s why a clear chain of responsibility and accountability is vital. the agency, the member states are commissioned as part of the management board, and we in parliament need to team up more closely to improve that. even more so, since with a new task, an increased budget, a standing corps for the first time in european history, of course there is greater responsibility. we need to make sure that the agency is well equipped for the future, that possible deficiencies are addressed and solved where needed. we need to make sure that those officers who are deployed on our behalf, who dedicate their time and their work to a european cause, can do so under the best circumstances.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – madam president, speaking on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, which contributed to the parliament’s resolution on the council and european council discharge, i would like to express regret on the continued lack of progress in the cooperation between the council and the parliament during this discharge procedure. increased and proactive transparency on the side of the council would be conducive to a better informed discharge procedure from the outset. the council took some steps towards more transparency in general. this is to be welcomed, but it is not enough. therefore, i underline an urgent need for a memorandum of understanding between the european parliament and the council on the provisions of the information necessary for parliament to take an informed decision on discharge. the situation must be improved and the conference on the future of europe provides an opportunity to discuss also proposals to enhance transparency and democratic accountability with regard to the protection of the union’s budget. citizens have a right to know that money is being well spent.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank everyone who contributed to this report, especially our chair, monika hohlmeier, for leading the negotiations. on content, we greens measure the success of our work not only by identified errors, but mainly to what extent we have improved the report, and yes, with our amendments we made a difference. regarding cap reforms, the commission must finally improve its information and monetary system. we need the list of the 50 biggest beneficiaries to understand where the largest chunk of the eu funds went and what it was spent on. not just us greens, but also the european chemicals agency (echa) and scientists repeatedly write that the agri—budget does not match the overall political goals such as climate protection, biodiversity or animal welfare. furthermore, there is now a reference to the slovak agricultural paying agency, which is also a result our efforts for improvement. strong language now on conflicts of interest and corruption, as well as conditionality and rule of law principles for further funding. second point: true error rates in eu expenditure remain an estimate between the commission’s 12 different ways to calculate it, and the numbers reported by the echa, which not only create uncertainty, but even carry the risk of misinformation. last point: the biggest future risk of the financial sustainability to the eu budget is the growing backlog, which equals two—year eu expenditure. with an additional burden coming from the recovery fund, the eu is ignoring a potential insolvency. in view of tomorrow’s vote, i sincerely hope that our progressive approach and the strong language in the committee’s report will not be further watered down.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all receive what is called a flat-rate office allowance of eur 4563 each month. 273 780 eur during one legislature tax free. with this money we can rent district offices, computers, telephones, organise events, and if the money is used properly, i believe it can do a lot of good work for the european union. as with all public funds, we should handle this money very well and responsibly. and so, for me, two things are obvious here: we should keep a record of every euro we spend and every euro we do not spend should be returned to the european taxpayer. unfortunately, not everyone in this house sees it that way. some put the money in their own pocket what we have not seen in recent years. 42 members of the house of representatives have rented a constituency office of their own. 249 members of congress didn't have any district offices, but they took the money anyway. the fact that 693 members of parliament in the last parliament managed to spend every penny of the money is a very remarkable achievement, and one that we do not see in any other budget line. the money can be spent on pretty much anything at the moment; there is no control on the members of parliament as to what they spend the money on. the whole thing is so absurd that this house has been saying for years that this practice must change, that we need more control and more transparency. but this democratic decision of the plenary is ignored time and again by the bureau. that must change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european globalisation adjustment fund was launched in 2007. the aim is to re-qualify and re-train workers who have lost their jobs as a result of a qualification. so basically a good thing this happened for example at nokia and opel in bochum. but the best qualification is of no use if there are no well-paid jobs, and unfortunately, in germany today, many highly qualified people work in the low-wage sector, for example at amazon. we are discussing today the possibility of significantly increasing this fund. and we're also talking about renaming it -- which i think is very honest -- into a fund for change. it's about green change, and the fact is that the green deal and the european union's climate goals will destroy many millions of good-paying, value-preserving jobs in the next few years. it will destroy. i would like to mention in particular the automobile industry, which is the backbone of the german economy. this backbone will be broken by the unilateral support of the emobility. in germany alone, 410 000 jobs are at risk, and this is without any sense or reason and without any benefit to the climate. germany is responsible for 2% of global co2 emissions, the eu for just under 10%. the contribution of passenger cars is 14.2%; the car industry in europe emits 534 million tonnes of co2. that's what china emits in three weeks. this is insane. the green deal is the end of prosperity and social peace in the eu.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the rapporteur for the rights and values programme was green alice kuhnke, and i know this from the libe committee. what she says is usually a mixture of nonsense, deception and distortion, and so here too. the aim is to give citizens and civil society organisations the opportunity to make their views known publicly. this is coming from a group which, together with other leftwing parties, is doing everything possible to deny my group - openly and unlawfully - the posts of chairman and rapporteur. so obviously not all opinions are welcome. that's how totalitarian abuse of power goes through the majority, and that's how it will be with the r&amp;d program. the rights and values programme calls for the establishment of a civil dialogue group. this is nothing more than a new left-green clientelist project for academic minorities who cannot find work elsewhere and want to live parasitically at the expense of european taxpayers. and funded with at least 1.5 billion euros, this leftist nonsense from abortion, special rights for sexual micro-existences to the fight against those phobias that the left-green discrimination paranoiacs reinvent every day, literally here: "afriphobia", "interphobia", "transphobia", "biphobia". who, mrs. kuhnke, actually thinks up such nonsense? unfortunately, the most important phobia is missing here, namely the fear of being a fool, of being a fool or of wasting, because these phobias are all too justified compared to the rights and values programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. populism, attacks on our democracy, on the rule of law, on infringement procedures, on resolutions and signals we send here in parliament - we often discuss this together, and this is also important. but it is at least as important to empower all citizens in europe, to be active ourselves, to promote the basic values in europe, to bring together civil society organisations, to communicate the history of the union and democracy, and at the same time to promote civic participation. so it's a strong sign that we've been able to double the rights and values program, and it's also a strong sign that we can decide that here today. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and also the shadow rapporteurs. but i think that when we talk about democracy here - and how democrats participate in europe - it should be clear that democracy needs democrats. but then we must also continue to strengthen the european parliament, for example. i would like to appeal to mrs von der leyen here - who has promised us a right of initiative for this parliament - to at least react to every resolution. mrs von der leyen, please take the initiative for a right of initiative for the european parliament too!
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the democratic rule of law is one of the greatest achievements of human civilization. it guarantees that no one has to accept the right of the stronger. respect for the rule of law is one of the fundamental pillars of the european union and one of the common values enshrined in article 2 of the eu treaties. more than 80% of european citizens attach great importance to this value and are committed to improving the culture of the rule of law in europe. this is shown by eurobarometer surveys. they feel that the rule of law is not an abstract concept but that it can have a very concrete impact on their lives at any time. the rule of law and democracy must never be taken for granted. we see governments in europe using parliamentary majorities to undermine the independence of the judiciary and undermine the rule of law, for example. for example, we have recently seen prosecutors who have spoken out against the polish government's controversial judicial reform being moved far from their homes. they were given only 48 hours to comply with this request without the possibility of objecting. dissent is punished, and that, in turn, is supposed to act as a deterrent to everyone else. it is important to emphasise: the independence of the judiciary is not primarily for the benefit of judges and prosecutors. it serves the entire population, which can only rely on impartial judicial decisions. a good example of this is the protests against the practical abolition of abortion rights in poland. tens of thousands of people took to the streets, and none of them had any hope that the polish constitutional court would make a fair judgment. why not? - why not? because the court had been brought into line with the government before with numerous so-called reforms and reappointments. that is what the colleagues on the extreme right like to mix up. it is not a question of establishing a particular opinion, but of establishing the diversity, the plurality of opinions and their contradictions. and poland has shown quite clearly what happens when the law of the stronger prevails and not the strength of the law. the member states are responsible for guaranteeing the rule of law in their country. when there are deficits in one member state, this affects all the other countries and the eu as a whole. eu citizens can live and work in any member state, and businesses can operate throughout europe. but a common internal market requires common rules. european citizens must be able to rely on the correct and uniform application of eu law everywhere. the european union is also committed to the principle of non-discrimination. crossborder cooperation and mutual recognition of judicial decisions can only work if there is confidence in an independent and efficient judiciary in each member state. european taxpayers' money must not flow to countries where the use of the money is not subject to independent judicial control. the prime example of this is hungary, where a large part of national and european taxpayers' money is going into the pockets of viktor orbán and his clan. in order to combat such machinations better, we have also adopted the instrument of the rule of law conditionality. it is therefore a europe-wide task to promote a culture of the rule of law, to prevent problems and to take effective countermeasures when our values are attacked. tomorrow we will vote on an important instrument to promote this culture and take a step towards a common european legal area: the justice programme as part of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework. the justice programme will be endowed with more than eur 300 million. together with the 'rights and values' programme just discussed, it will form part of a justice rights and values fund, which provides up to eur 1.8 billion to support the rule of law and european fundamental values. we use the money to support the activities of public authorities, research institutes and civil society organisations. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, heidi hautala, and i were able to reach a very good compromise at the end of last year after intensive negotiations with the member states and the commission. we have also been able to achieve a clear purpose-orientation for the objectives of the programme. firstly, the promotion of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. this strengthens mutual recognition, mutual trust and judicial cooperation in europe. secondly, support for judicial training and further training in order to promote a common legal culture in europe. third, facilitating effective non-discriminatory access to justice for all, including through digital means. and fourthly, support for the rights of victims of crime and the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons. the commission will report to parliament annually on the use of the funds. on this basis we can make recommendations for an even more efficient use of the funds. a key point for us was also that measures to promote gender equality should be explicitly stated. and any change in the list of eligible measures must be approved by parliament. i therefore ask you all to give the green light to the new justice programme 2021-2027 in the vote tomorrow. it is one of the best investments we can make to strengthen the european judiciary and to take a step towards a genuine european area of justice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all know that the rule of law in europe is under attack in individual member states, and that is precisely why this programme is so important. it is not because we have different national or cultural understandings of the rule of law, but because we want to create a common european space through exchange programmes, because we want to support judicial cooperation throughout europe, and because we want to ensure access to the justice system throughout europe. that's what this program is for, and that's what's really, really important. at the same time, the member states and the council are rapidly introducing new instruments to improve cooperation. but the protection of fundamental rights is often neglected, and that is why we need new instruments that work. yes, we also need better cooperation; it must not depend on individual prosecutors knowing each other. but that's exactly why this program is important, that we build this collaboration structurally. it is not as much applause as proposing a new law, but it is important to better organise the cooperation of the judicial systems in europe as a whole.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the rescue of the summer tourism season eu support for the hotel and catering industry (2021/2653 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the stars on our flag are no coincidence. they are a constant reminder that we as europeans should always strive for the stars – metaphorically, but sometimes even literally. dear commissioner breton, dear colleagues, if we get to reach for the stars again, we have today taken the very first step. the eu space programme can form the basis for a forward—looking, unambiguous european space policy. however, if we don’t just want to reach for the stars but actually seize them, then we must go even further. we are in the midst of a new space race, and if europe continues to proceed as it has done so far, we will lose it. fifty-five years after the outer space treaty, only a minority of the european member states have enacted a national space law. they missed their chance. now we have to decide: does it still make sense to have 27 individual national space laws, only to then harmonise them once again, in the midst of a worldwide space race? no, it does not make sense. we need a uniform european space law as soon as possible, because we need safety and security and, for the private sector, we need clarity and planning security. and if we want a competitive european space economy, we must also ensure a stable income by issuing continuous public contracts. we need very close cooperation with the european space agency (esa) and to enable big projects like a european mega constellation. only then will we stand a chance against spacex and blue origin. mr breton, you are also in the very historic position of having to define what europe’s global position will be. we have to ensure that we step forward onto the world stage to find the common ground on open regulation issues, such as space traffic management, space debris regulation and the registration of private space flights. i personally am really proud of what we europeans have achieved so far, in particular with world leading programmes like copernicus, egnos and galileo. however, let us not stop here. let us accelerate and let us ensure that there are not only stars on our flag, but that there is our flag on the stars.
mr president, for many citizens, when they hear about space policy, they think star trek, star wars and the return of the empire, but space goes far beyond this science fiction, as we all know. space is not only a place for reaping the benefits of human ingenuity, but also a frontier that reflects the political issues we witness here on earth. space plays a huge role in our daily lives already, as we know, enabling satellite tv, internet and smartphone connections, precision in agriculture and disaster relief. our european space programmes and smes play a key role in providing these services but, if we create the space where they can thrive, they can do much more. we can expect innovations and technological breakthroughs that can tackle climate change, and predict environmental diseases. we can promote research in health and fight humanitarian hardships that we currently see. i think that, in order to be able to reap these benefits, we need to do four things. first – and my colleague niklass nienaß has also said this – we need to europeanise our efforts. that means both when it comes to law, but also when it comes to our space programme. other countries won’t be waiting for us and we need to ensure that we consolidate our governance and invest. second, we need to enable private investment. we don’t have to retract – and we shouldn’t retract – our government spending in the area, but we need to enable private investment to increase access. third, we need to ensure fair access to data so that downstream commercialisation is fair and competitive and can really bring out the smartest among us. fourth, and most importantly, space does not belong to any one nation. it is a place for discovery and research for all mankind. we should treat it as such and enforce international rule—based systems to counter space militarisation and debris. if nations use outer space for their individual gain, we face a tragedy of the commons, where we will hinder the progress that we could make together for all of europe, but also for all of mankind.
the council has not yet adopted the proposal. we have to worry about this parliament more often than not, but today we have to worry about it more than ever. everyone seems to agree with the green certificate, and everyone claims that there will be no discrimination against the unvaccinated once the green certificate is introduced. does anyone in this room really believe that? we already see discrimination on our flights: if you have a pcr test, you get on the plane; if you have a blood test, you get on the plane. anyone who doesn't have it will be denied entry. and while discrimination may not come from government agencies, it will come from hotel chains and airlines. the green certificate redefines the fundamental rights. it is like a certificate of fundamental rights: those who have the green certificate have fundamental rights; those who do not have it do not have them. this is not the way to enter, this is the definition of second-class society. the european parliament and the eu in general have no competence in this area. we are in the field of health policy, and as you know, this is a national story. in addition, there are many open questions concerning data security. in committee mr reynders was unable or unwilling to say exactly where, when and for how long the data would be stored. this is all still in the negotiation, insofar as we are supposed to give our data, well, to the european commission, which has failed badly first in the fight against covid, then in the procurement of vaccines. and we are asked to approve a green certificate which fundamentally changes the fundamental rights, namely to divide into two groups. this is clear discrimination, and that is why i am appalled by what i am hearing here. this certificate is to be rejected. national arrangements should be made between countries, but not by the eu.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i will say this first: i will never agree to a so-called digital green certificate. an internationally valid vaccination certificate has been in existence for over 50 years. for decades, it has made it possible to travel around the world without any problems. no, it is not about inventing something that already exists, but about a document that regulates access to such everyday things as going to an outdoor pool, a cinema or a mundane purchase in a hardware store. this is the debate in germany, where politicians plan to restrict participation in public life to those who have been vaccinated or tested. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only then they're not basic rights anymore. and by the way, hinz and kunz will also get access to sensitive health data stored somewhere. it'll make you look good. it is therefore not surprising that the commission text states that these certificates will have an impact on fundamental rights and the right to data protection. this document is the beginning of a pervasive digital surveillance. it's the beginning of the great transformation that is now being heralded in words and in writing, accelerated by covid-19. a dystopian world where you are considered sick until proven otherwise by testing, and temporarily deprived of some of your civil rights for the duration of the validity of the test (say 48 hours) or the vaccination (this is still being negotiated). i am definitely not against occasional diagnostic tests, because only they provide valid and relevant results. but comprehensive testing of millions of healthy people, alongside tons of garbage (it's a good thing we banned straws) only produces statistical trash and is used by the german government as a singular justification for imposing curfews on the population. apart from the fact that all the vaccines against corona have no regulatory approval whatsoever. how can we, after eight months of development, when the usual development time is ten years, and the official documents clearly state that clinical trials are not expected to confirm efficacy and safety until the end of december 2023 (here at biontech)? the decision to vaccinate or not to vaccinate can and must therefore always be made by an adult citizen who is aware of the risks. the back door vaccination requirement associated with this document is therefore categorically rejected.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's good that there's a covid certificate now. it is good that we now have common standards and that the patchwork is at least partially standardized. and it is also good that the increase in counterfeiting is being put on hold. i am very pleased that my group has succeeded in including free tests in the proposal. however, it is questionable why this procedure had to be carried out at such a hurried pace. there has been no proper consultation, which might have created transparency, especially for the many thousands of citizens who have written to us in the mdep - some with unfounded fears or unscientific reasons. but they have a point, because no one has been able to explain to me why people automatically recovered ten days after the first positive pcr test and can no longer spread the virus. i've often said that in a pandemic, speed is more important than thoroughness. in this case, however, the reverse would have been preferable, and i hope that such strange procedures will not be used in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we want to bring schengen back to life. the european covid-19 certificates are an instrument to help people exercise their freedom to travel again. but this is not just about holidays, it is about millions of people in border regions who commute. this is the case for seasonal workers, who are now needed throughout europe in spring. but let me be clear: this certificate should not be a prerequisite for anyone to travel, but it relieves us of the obligation to quarantine, to test for vaccinated people and is therefore a tool to facilitate the exercise of this freedom of travel. member states have disproportionately interfered with the freedom of movement of citizens during this covid-19 pandemic. we want to give them back their freedoms.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the reports by mr lopéz aguilar will take place today. the vote on the motions for resolutions on the accessibility and affordability of covid-19 tests will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. last month, the eucommission presented the digital vaccination passport. it aims to force member states to issue digital green certificates for coronavirus-related vaccinations, tests and recoveries. member states should ensure that the certificates work across the eu and can be queried across borders. the eu commission's move is effectively a backdoor vaccination mandate. this is the fulfillment of what was laughed at as a conspiracy theory a short while ago and of which we have always warned. the past is now being taken for granted, with privileges being given to those who are vaccinated, while those who are not have to go through more complicated and costly procedures, such as travel. a two-class society dividing people into vaccinated and unvaccinated, and paving the way for even more digital surveillance, is the result. the digital green certificate violates article 21 of the eu's charter of fundamental rights, which states that all persons are equal before the law and that all persons must have the right to equal treatment by authorities, whether vaccinated or not! there are also serious data protection concerns and insufficient guarantees that eu citizens' data will not be sold to big data companies and that our data is adequately protected against cyberattacks.
the next item is the report by mr schwab and mr hlaváček, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the taxation of the digital economy: oecd negotiations, the tax base of digital companies and a possible european digital tax (2021/2010 (ini)) (a9-0103/2021).
we now come to the first round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 2.15 p.m. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 7 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by mr schwab and mr hlaváček (a9-0103/2021).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday, 28 april 2021. the debate will resume at 3 p.m. with the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on russia: the alexei navalny case, the advance of armed forces on the ukrainian border and russian aggression in the czech republic. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i was not entirely surprised when the german foreign minister called us all in the european parliament, for our russia position, as being clever, as being drivers of escalation. i am surprised because our position - including that contained in this resolution - is profoundly pro-russian. it is much more pro-russian than nord stream 2. we are pro-russian because we think of all russians, not just those who have a lot on their account, not just those who have access to gas and oil. we're not just thinking about the powerful and the oligarchs. we think of all russians in russia in all regions. we think of russian families who miss their loved ones, who ended up in detention camps just for fighting against corruption and for democracy - like alexei navalny. we think of russian soldier mothers who do not want their sons to fall in wars that are senseless and illegal like in eastern ukraine or in crimea. we think of russian journalists who are branded, stigmatized and hindered in their work because they want one thing: to speak the truth and about the truth, like the medusa news agency, which was recently declared to be a foreign agent. we are also here with this resolution to defend these people and this truth, and that is why we are pro-russian, much more pro-russian than anyone who preaches change through rapprochement and reaps corruption through rapprochement. and these days we're all pro-czech. we are pro-czech in this resolution because we would never allow terrorist activities to be allowed on european territory. we are pro-czech because we stand up for our czech colleagues here, because we are pro-european. and because we are pro-european, we are also pro-ukrainian, because the war and the escalation on the borders with ukraine also endanger our european stability. and that is why we owe the ukrainians what some of them died for: a clear pro-european and european perspective. this makes us the most pro-european, pro-ukrainian and pro-russian meps on this continent.
madam president, in his recent state-of-the-nation address, president putin complained that some states pick on russia, often without an excuse. in line with the kremlin’s shameless cynicism, this complaint was voiced precisely when 150 000 russian soldiers were mobilised on ukrainian borders and in annexed crimea. when convoys of russian military vehicles were rushing into ukraine’s donbas region. when alexei navalny, once already sent to his deathbed by fsb killers, was once again fighting for his life in putin’s prison. when czech authorities confirmed the link between russian military services and the vicious crime that claimed the lives of innocent people. when ukrainians in the occupied donbas region are forced into fast-track passportisation, just like people in the russian-occupied territories of georgia and moldova. when the kremlin is encroaching on the sovereignty of belarus, while lukashenko is ready to allow it as long as he keeps his power. when our elections and democracies are under permanent attack by russian interference and disinformation campaigns. when russian citizens are constantly denied the fundamental freedoms of speech, association and peaceful assembly. are all these reasons not enough to criticise and sanction russia? are these, and many more, not enough acts of aggression and bullying against which we all have to take a stand? we cannot afford to be naive when it comes to the russian government and putin’s regime. thanks a lot for the good resolution and good cooperation.
madam president, what happened in 2014 in the czech military warehouse is an unprecedented act of aggression, an unforgivable attack on the sovereignty of a member state of the european union. and unfortunately, he's not the only one. the russian embassies in the european union today function more as intelligence bases than as bases for the diplomatic corps. let's recall two from the information campaign. think of brexit, the annexation of crimea, the russian war in eastern ukraine, and the recruitment of fighters into the european union. let's think about litvinenko, the skripal, the cyber attacks, and the other things. i believe that this is the time to say, enough, enough. it is our moral duty to express solidarity with the czech republic first and foremost, and i am glad that slovakia has done so first. but there's more to it than that. this is about our security, the security of all citizens of the european union. it's important that we expose the agents and the military intelligence officers and talk about their activities, so that it opens the eyes of those who still have them locked up, that the putin regime is waging an unprecedented, full-scale hybrid war against us. it is time to say enough, it is time to coordinate diplomatic actions, it is time to tighten sanctions and it is time to put on the table the disconnection of the russian federation from the international financial system.
high representative for foreign affairs. the russian federation has been aggressively pressuring the whole of europe for the past month. the deployment of over 100,000 troops to the ukrainian border and the russian-occupied areas of ukraine is a sign that further military aggression is at least one option on the table for president putin. do not be fooled by the statement of the minister of defense shoigu that the exercises are over and the units are returning to their bases. the important lesson is what we witnessed, it shows how quickly and to what extent russia is able to move its troops to the border. russia's broader activity in the neighbourhood is active and driven by imperialist interests. let us take the situation in moldova or georgia. the recent revelation of the russian federation's military intelligence gru's involvement in the 2014 ammunition tunnel bombings in the territory of the czech republic, a member state of the european union, is yet another example of russia waging a covert war against the democratic west. it's time for action, not words. in solidarity with our czech friends, several eu member states have responded to the call to expel russian federation diplomats. today, along with many of my colleagues, i have sent you a request to propose to the council that it expel russian diplomats accredited to the european union. i very much hope that you will take up this matter and that the european union will show solidarity with one of its member states who fell victim to a criminal attack by russia.
president, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on our relations with russia in february - in your presence, mr high representative - i said that the union must act with unity and determination when our fundamental values are threatened, but must also keep in mind the need for cooperation on strategic issues. dialogue if possible, measures sanctions, say if needed that is no different today, although the development of our relationship has not been less worrying since then. indeed, unfortunately there is no reason to seek dialogue with russia today. the repression of the opposition clearly shows the seriousness of the decline of democracy and the rule of law. aggression against ukraine and other countries in the neighbourhood is not even concealed anymore and is steadily increasing. the relationship with the eu and its member states is also deteriorating, to put it mildly, with the czech republic being a painful example a few days ago. i would like to make two comments on this. firstly, that the eu has every interest in acting in unison, or unison, and assertively, or more assertively, including more sanctions if necessary, and that the signal from the foreign affairs council last week, mr president, was far too weak in this respect. for these reasons i also joined a call for you to make a proposal to expel diplomats from the russian mission to the eu. secondly, that security against external threats is much more than a social need and that we need a modern and flexible nato for our international security policy.
madam president, expansionist foreign policy and nationalism are being used by the putin regime to rally russian public opinion and control political developments. in the european union, more governments are concerned about moscow's policy and less about ankara's policy. it is time for us all to be equally concerned about both and, above all, to act to put our relations in the right context. it is well known that we prefer economic diplomacy, but it is not enough when we are faced with hard and determined regimes. we cannot ignore geography, nor the need for increased economic cooperation. on the other hand, it is wrong to project an image of european weakness, because we end up encouraging those whom we want to restrain. we must be united and determined in the face of challenges; close to president biden, who is based on principles and values and wants to work with the european union. we must take on more responsibility, by strengthening our autonomy within nato. this must be our answer to putin.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i wish to thank the members very much for all these considerations. as you can understand it is difficult to answer 65 interventions one by one, but i will try to go on the main lines of the approach to russia. to start with, let me tell you that just now i got the news that russia has expelled, some moments ago, seven diplomats from slovakia, estonia, latvia and lithuania. maybe they were listening to this debate and they took some measures about it. so, as you see, the confrontation continues. i’d like to try to answer some specific issues raised, but at the same time to go a little bit above and to have a look at the general approach that we have to follow with russia in the coming new geopolitical landscape. after listening to all of you, i think that we agree – or most of you agree – on the fact that we are going to face a long hard period of political confrontation with russia, and we must prepare for that. i think this is an undeniable reality because russia now is convinced that its confrontation with europe, in general with the west – europe, the united states – is the surest way to reinforce the legitimacy of russian power. have a look at the speech by president putin the last day, his message to the nation in the duma, have a look at the part related to foreign policy, and you will see clearly how it is the way i am saying, that the confrontation with the west is part of the reinforcement of their legitimacy towards the interior. on the other hand, it says that the defence of human rights, or when we require them about human rights issues, for them is an existential threat. and when i went to moscow i explained clearly in front of them that, sorry, you signed the convention on human rights of the council of europe, and we too are partners in this convention and we have the right to analyse and follow how you fulfil this obligation that you signed. but for them it is an existential threat because it is a regime with a very weak economic performance, mediocre i would say, and the prospects for them are not good. climate change and the answer to climate change, especially coming from us with our climate plans, will make it more difficult. yes, they have strong military power and they use it and they deploy it when needed – syria, even libya, the caucasus – and they have a real technological potential, but economically speaking russia is the size of italy, not much more than spain. they have also the energy weapon. many of you have been talking about it, relating to nord stream. i will say something about it. it’s very much present in the relationship between russia and europe, the energy question, and it plays an important role for their future because russia is, c’est l’économie de la rente, l’exploitation des ressources naturelles. sans cela, ils auraient vraiment un problème – ils ont déjà un problème. the green deal, as i was saying, will increase these problems. this is why the russian power is engaged in a spiral in which internal repression plays an important role. with respect to belarus, have a look at the recent visit of lukashenko to moscow and you will learn about the relationship between moscow and belarus. i don’t want to use words that can create alarm, but it’s clear that the main lesson that we can take about the situation in belarus comes from the visit of lukashenko to moscow. about ukraine. russia is not only aiming and increasing its military intimidation – not only military intimidation – but at the political level is moving further saying that the ukrainian conflict, and many of you have been mentioning it, does not concern russia: ‘oh my god, what do we have to do with the ukrainian conflict?’ even more, that the minsk agreement was just a signature to look for a temporary solution, and it is nothing more than that. this is something that moscow is starting to say openly, and they present themselves as a mediator in a conflict in which they are not part. all in all, it creates a dynamic and russia is probably engaging on the way of a strategic alliance with china with three objectives in mind. first, to reduce its technological and economic dependency on the west. if you talk with the european firms which are investing in russia, they will tell you that russian technology standards and the chinese technology standards are winning the battle, more and more. it is the chinese technology which is taking the market, against us. even if this leaning towards china will eventually make russia dependent on this big country, for them they need an alternative to look for outlets in terms of energy. here we are not buying so much amounts of gas and oil. who will buy it? there’s no one else big enough to replace us. yes, there is a lot of infrastructure to be built in order to transport this energy, but this alliance with beijing is, among other things, a way of looking for someone else interested in burning gas and oil from russia. this alliance with beijing will profoundly modify the international language on human rights and favour a division of international relations which would have considerable implications in particular for the management of the net and energy policy, world energy policy, the geopolitics of energy. this is something that we have to keep in mind when we talk about our relations with russia. we want to understand really what is at stake. mr putin has been saying clearly that they are officially recognising the use of instruments of asymmetric action. and we know very well how these asymmetric actions are being performed – for espionage and cyber—attacks and to support ultra—conservative forces and practise disinformation. this is the landscape, and in face of this landscape we have no other solution than to stick to the line that i propose and sensitise on using these three verbs that i would like to repeat as many times as needed in order to create a certain way of understanding the problem: to contain, to push back and engage. to push back and prevent russia from crossing red lines, especially when the sovereignty of european states are at stake. we have seen this recently about the czech republic. contain – we must support all of those who are the object of russian pressure and, i think, particularly countries in the eastern partnership. but this doesn’t prevent us from having to engage, which is the third pillar, because russia exists and there are files and ways, and we have an interest to work with it – on iran, and now on climate change. by the way, listen to the leaks, about the conversation with the iranian minister zarif. while it appears clear that russia was trying to put obstacles to the negotiations on the jcpoa, trying to prevent agreement to be reached. listen to these leaks. they are very, very clear about what happened at that time, but that can also happen now. but we have to count on russia about the iranian nuclear deal. it’s part of it. but this strategy of pushing back, containing and engaging will only succeed if we fulfil two essential conditions. the first one is that member states remain solidly united and avoid free riding on moscow when moscow tries to divide us. only if member states take a firm position when they come to brussels and go back to their capitals, we will be able to face russia. and mr bütikofer has said that, and i agree with him when he says it is in the capitals where we can have a stronger responsibility about policy towards russia. because we, the european union, we tried to build a common foreign policy but for a policy, like it or not, remains according to the treaty, an exclusive competence of the member states. and the fact that you here, the european parliament, talk with me, the high representative, about how to deal with russia doesn’t make you severe the basic principle of the foreign policy belonging to the member states and have to make them agree. and if they don’t agree then we don't have a policy. thank you to mr bütikofer for remembering that at the end we have to look also to the member states, it means to the governments of the countries that you represent here. if they take a firm position in brussels and then they go back to their capitals and forget about their commitments and to free riding on the relationship with russia, it’s very difficult to have a common policy, and if we don’t have a common policy then the european union doesn’t have the tools in order to do the job that you’re asking me to do. and this has some relationship for sure with nord stream that has been mentioned here several times. the second condition, and i want to stress it also, is that the countries of the eastern partnership, which we help to face the russian pressure, must imperatively reform themselves. they need to use our help and our support, not as a rent but as an instrument for more internal reforms. yes, they are suffering under russian pressure. the best way of facing this pressure is reforming, becoming fully democratic countries in order to build an economic prosperity and a coherent society. in freedom. with our support. it is the best way of supporting the russian pressure and it is why we have to condition our support, big support. i don’t know, i don’t think they don’t deserve it, but as always, this support has to produce results, and we have to be very much exigent in order to be sure that our policy of supporting is well-oriented to the results that we require and for sure they pay require also. some details, questions like the use of swift. well, swift is an international organisation, a private international organisation, in which the european union has no power. we should be together with a lot of other people in order to be able to influence the decision about swift. sanctions: sanctions to the oligarchs. i would like very much to have a reason that can be legally supported, but our instruments, the last one – the human rights instrument that we approved and that we have been using for the first time against russia and china – doesn’t consider corruption among one of the reasons to be employed. sorry, that’s what we have approved. and about nord stream, that many of you have been mentioning. yes, it’s a controversial infrastructure. and the european commission has already said that this infrastructure does not lead to diversify the energy sources of the european union, which is one of the objectives of our energy union. but this is a private endeavour. the european union does not have the means and tools to decide what to do with nord stream 2. it is a matter of private firms and it is a matter for the germans. but we can do, when nord stream starts operating, if it does, is to require that it will be working in a non-discriminatory and in a transparent way with an adequate degree of regulatory oversight in line with the key principles of international and european union energy law. i want to remind you that the gas directive that entered into force a couple of years ago in may 2019 gives the union the competence to apply the european union energy law on interconnection from third countries. and it is what we are going to do. but at the same time, don’t ask me to support the american sanctions against the firms that are building nord stream 2. i am against extraterritorial sanctions imposed by the united states – everywhere. i cannot not be depending on the colour of the people affected to be in favour or against it. you have to keep coherence. well, these are some reflections about what you have been saying during this long exchange of views. to summarise, we must continue refuting russia’s attempt to portray itself as a mediator in ukraine and we must continue passing strong messages about the three issues that we have been discussing today. with regard to the navalny case, let me say that there is a place in which we can do something. it is the council of europe. in the council of europe something can be done, more than here. the european union members are members of the council of europe and nobody has been going to the strasbourg court of human rights, nobody as often as navalny. and rarely has this system of collective human rights protection been as modest on the answer. and that’s important to take into consideration, because navalny went to the court 20 times. he has been detained 10 months in house arrest, twice sentenced for corruption in fake trials, and every time the european court of human rights had been ruling in his favour. he has been attacked three times, the last one with novichok. and no real action has been taken. and i think that the council of europe could do more, because this is a democratic place where democracies sit around – russia is part of this assembly. and i think that clear decisions from the european court of human rights can help to face this problem: the issue of mr navalny. well, we will have to continue talking about russia. i want to insist that the word ‘engage’ is part of these three verbs, and we have a lot of work to do in order to create unity among us to impose reforms in the eastern border countries and to maintain with russia the dialogue needed in order to work together on issues on which we need to work together. i don’t have any kind of interest in escalating against russia. we don’t need to escalate; we need just to keep firm in defending our principles using the tools and means that we have. but please, look for solutions in the member state capitals. don’t believe that everything can be decided here by me, by the european commission or by the european parliament, because foreign policy is something that today is still a matter for the member states. help me to build a common foreign policy towards russia.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 29 april 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i am pleased that today's debate has been placed on our agenda and focuses on four recent unfriendly actions by putin's russia: the assassination of opposition leader alexei navalny, the war against ukraine, the sabotage at the vrbetice ammunition depot in the czech republic and the further construction of nord stream 2. but it's not our words that matter, it's our actions that matter. the controversial nord stream 2 pipeline, a €10 billion, 1,200 km pipeline across the baltic sea to germany, is still under construction. this is despite strong opposition from many member states and the united states, which arose from the fact that this investment enables russia to increase its political and economic influence. the time has come for the european union to take decisive action to increase its capacity to prevent hybrid threats from russia in areas such as state terrorism, cyber-attacks, disinformation and energy security, and to take effective action to halt the nord stream 2 project. the escalation of tensions caused by the provocative movements of russian troops near the border with ukraine is also of concern. countering russian aggression is crucial for the security of the union, and i therefore call for concrete action by the member states, the eeas and the international institutions.
in writing. the region of central and eastern europe has been subject to serious tensions in recent weeks, which have an impact on the stability of our region and the sense of security of our eu citizens. so in the light of events in the czech republic, in line with the declaration adopted by the visegrad states on monday, i would like to express my solidarity with the czech republic. the military buildup on the ukrainian-russian border has increased tensions in the region. we must stand firmly for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. the primary objective and interest of all of us should be to preserve the security and balance of our region and our neighbourhood. we must therefore work together to find a peaceful solution to our differences, which can only be achieved through dialogue and negotiation, the european union's most important foreign policy tool. we understand the difficult situation in ukraine and i am therefore pleased that the hungarian government is also trying to provide concrete assistance through numerous means. at the same time, ukraine must respect the rights of national minorities, including the hungarian community, as this is the only way for these minorities to feel at home as full citizens in their homeland. the deteriorating condition of russian opposition politician alexei navalny in a prison camp is a cause for concern and the authorities have a responsibility to ensure his health and safety. it must be done as soon as possible by ensuring full transparency of the full investigation into the attempted murder against him.
in writing. i agree with the high representative's comments. the russian troop movements on the russian-ukrainian border are deeply disturbing. the strength of the troops, over 100,000 strong, clearly shows that they are not intended to be defensive. our common european duty is to support ukraine, which has the right to individual and collective self-defence under article 51 of the un charter. i therefore welcome any supply of defensive weapons which will better equip the ukrainian armed forces for the defensive case. the numerous arrests of peaceful demonstrators in russia and the detention of alexei navalny, who is still being illegally detained by the russian state, are equally reprehensible.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on 'chinese counter-sanctions against eu institutions and against meps and national parliamentarians' (2021/2644 ((rsp)).
madam president, first of all, i think we need to talk about language because these are not counter—sanctions. the european union has sanctioned four chinese human rights abusers. the chinese have retaliated with sanctions on individual members of different parliaments – the whole subcommittee on human rights, 27 ambassadors and quite a number of think—tankers. this is a regime arbitrarily shooting a shotgun, targeting our freedom of expression, our freedom of research and our rights as members of parliament. so i think it is important, as a consequence, that we also are very clear in our response as the european parliament as a whole. as members of the subcommittee on human rights, we can no longer travel to china. we can also not invite experts on china to our committee because they would equally face sanctions, and we cannot rely on the work of think—tankers because they are banned from going to china. so, when it comes to the eu—china comprehensive agreement on investment (cai) that china wants us to ratify, we may be able to discuss the economic dimension at length, but we are kept by china from discussing its effects on human rights. i am not willing to let a foreign country dictate to me how to do my job as a member of parliament, and i don’t think any one of us should accept that. i’m not sure if we are clear on that across the board. so, as long as any one of us is under sanctions, i think this parliament should refuse to even start discussing the cai, let alone ratify it, because our commitment to human rights, and our solidarity with the uyghurs and the democratic movement in hong kong has to be more important than any potential economic effort or any potential economic benefit market access could have.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the sanctions imposed by the people's republic of china on members of this parliament are disproportionate and unacceptable. the european parliament cannot simply accept these events, and that makes it almost impossible for us to ratify the cai in these circumstances. but i am not one of those pessimists who believe that in the age of or the supposed age of of autocracy, liberal democracies should be merely observers. now more than ever, we as the european union must stand together with our partners around the world for democracy, the rule of law and individual freedom, putting these at the centre - in the west through an ambitious technology alliance and close trade links, in the east with a stronger commitment to the indo-pacific. asia is not just china. we must also work together more closely there. our values are not a weakness, but the source of our strength.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the fifth anniversary of the peace agreement in colombia (2021/2643 (rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me also start by expressing solidarity with the people of india, who face a terrible worsening of the covid—19 situation. again, we see that the poorest people suffer the most. the eu is ready to help and quickly provide medicine, ventilators and oxygen. we have seen that especially india has been very helpful towards other poorer countries like bangladesh. even more we should now be solidary with them. the european commission has activated the eu’s civil protection mechanism to coordinate the aid. we’re in this together. i would like to, first of all, thank rapporteur alametsä for the very good cooperation on this balanced report. we all agree, of course, that india is one of the fastest—growing economies, and the world’s largest democracy. it has been a strategic partner of the european union since 2004 and, rightly, our relations are a priority of the portuguese presidency. based on our shared values, we can boost our cooperation in many areas, for mutual benefit. let me state a few examples. first, india is one of our key partners in tackling climate change and biodiversity degradation. as two major global greenhouse gas emitters, a joint commitment and shared plans for the full implementation of the paris agreement can make a great contribution towards a just and safe clean energy transition and reaching climate neutrality. we should also encourage further convergence in the area of protection of personal data and privacy to facilitate safe and secure cross—border cooperation. and we need closer coordination to counter terrorism, violent extremism, and disinformation campaigns. we have to overcome the issues that have hampered our trade relations in recent years and work together on closer value—based trade relations within eu. we have also to promote people—to—people exchanges, including education and culture, and a stronger dialogue. but let me also say that human rights must be at the heart of the eu’s engagement with india. we do have issues with human rights here in europe, but we also have to encourage india to take further steps to ensure a safe environment for the work of independent journalists, human rights defenders and civil society.
the commission has already done so. india is the world's largest democracy and an important trading partner of europe. and so it is crucial that we do everything in our power to harmonize our relations with this country and to realize its full potential. we also need to recognise that india, as a nuclear power in a volatile region keyword kashmir conflict is an indispensable partner in security and defence matters. india's relations with china are of paramount importance to us all. but most importantly, we stand in solidarity with india in this unprecedented health crisis that is currently sweeping the country. the fact that hospitals are forced to turn away terminally ill patients and that many people have no other option but to cremate their loved ones themselves should make us think. i therefore welcome the initiative to further deepen relations between europe and india, in particular with regard to a joint indo-pacific strategy, but i hope that we can also provide practical help to help alleviate the current crisis.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as a former journalist, i am always suspicious when states or the eu want to restrict the dissemination of information - even if there are very, very good reasons for this, as with terrorist content. but we should always be aware that this is a very sharp sword. anyone who can define what is terrorist content can enforce any censorship and permanently shut down the free exchange of opinions. this is already the case in china and in other totalitarian regimes as well. but the proposal before us is a living proposal. patryk jaki and his shadows did a very good job. you've clearly defined what constitutes terrorist content. they have been given the sovereignty of nation states. they've stopped facebook, twitter and others from becoming censors. and they have been granted freedom of scientific, political, artistic and academic debate. in this respect, the work should also be considered as a benchmark for similar projects. this is particularly true of the libe subcommittee inge, which is concerned with the fight against hate speech and so-called disinformation. unfortunately, there is almost nothing defined there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. as good as the work on today's template is, as bad yes miserable it is there. today, anyone who wants to protect free speech but also to prevent terrorist content can agree to this proposal. but with the proposals coming forward to combat hate speech and disinformation, everyone should look very, very closely.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course, we must fight terrorism in europe relentlessly. but what do terrorists want to sow besides violence? they're trying to scare us. they want to attack the free society. and if you want to defend a free society against this, you cannot disproportionately restrict freedom of speech. i'm very worried that's what's going to happen with this instrument. i'm not sure that automatic filters, which could be used, would restrict our freedom of speech. i am very concerned that the authorities that can use crossborder erasure orders are actually defined narrowly enough so that we can guarantee proportionality and the rule of law. there was a similar french law that failed in the highest courts. i regret that we cannot actually vote on this bill in plenary once again in second reading. if i had had the opportunity, i would have voted against this regulation today. i call on the european commission to ensure that, in implementing and enforcing this instrument, the protective rights for which the european parliament has fought so hard are actually respected. i am very concerned that this will not be effective in practice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course we want to fight terrorism, and of course terrorism is also fuelled by the internet. but it's clear that there's always a risk in giving government agencies more powers to watch the internet and filter opinions. i'm very grateful to patryk jaki and the shadow reporters here for finding a way to limit this risk and to bring forward a law that sets an example of how to target the real threat without fear of unorthodox or dissenting opinions being limited. but one thing must be clear to all: we are fighting the symptoms of terrorism, not the causes. in france, a policewoman was recently stabbed. this is not the result of a lack of internet surveillance, but a lack of immigration control. so we should not only monitor the internet and give the police new powers, but also stop importing terrorism into europe.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are always happy to see that there is a way to make the railway more attractive. this is also necessary because, unfortunately, in the last few decades, rail networks have been destroyed in many european countries and have been confined to a few main lines. we are looking at the countries that have retained their railway networks, and we see the potential of this means of transport. my personal favourite would be the czech republic, but switzerland also shows what can be done. but it also includes passenger rights, it includes a new ticket policy, and it includes the possibility that what we know from hotel portals, from flight portals, is also possible for the railway. we must bring the railway into the 21st century if it is to become the number one means of transport again. it deserves it, it can do it, and we can do it without pressure, simply by increasing attractiveness. i therefore believe that the proposal before us, for which i thank the rapporteur, is a very good compromise, a step in the right direction. yes more passenger rights cost money, and this will be reflected in part in ticket prices. but this is what makes the transport more attractive overall, so these surcharges are ultimately justified. that is why we recommend and we will agree.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. poverty is sometimes visible, sometimes invisible. poverty is sometimes seen plainly, sometimes hidden. poverty is especially bad for children when you cannot accept the invitation for a birthday because you cannot afford a gift; you can't even have a birthday because you don't have any money. and you may not always see poverty right away because you can't afford the healthy food, you don't have enough of it, you eat too irregularly, or the food is just too bad. you may not see poverty if you don't have your own room and you can't study well enough. but you see poverty when you have no roof over your head at all and you are homeless. corona is making children poorer because schooling is not going to happen because there is no school. home is no longer a safe place, it's a trap and sometimes hell on earth. the kids are disappearing from the public eye right now during this lockdown. the realities of life for children and young people in the eu are different, and the causes of child poverty in the eu are more diverse. but it's in these times that we need strong child-rearing policies. these basic needs of children and young people must be secured. many people have been sick and died from covid. there are children in the european union who have lost both parents to covid and are now orphans. with the resolution on basic childcare, we are sending a clear and strong signal to the members of parliament at the social summit in porto. we expect a strong recommendation from the council, reflecting our proposals here and today, and, at best, even beyond. because when we talk about children, we're not talking about small adults, but we're talking about children, regardless of their origin, gender, sexual orientation, social status, disabled and non-disabled, roma children. they have the right to education, access to health care, food and housing. only in an adequate housing with a clean sewage system, but also access to clean drinking water, can you grow up safe, healthy and able to learn. only when a child is protected from violence, hunger, cold, disease, can a child develop freely. the task of eu decision-makers is to protect these children. let us vote today for strong child support!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. poverty is sick. poverty is stressful. poverty is scary. childhood poverty experiences shape them throughout their lives, and that's what we have 18 million children in this country right now. these children experience early on what it is to be excluded, to be unable to participate, to live in cramped, dark apartments, in bad neighborhoods, and there is a lot missing. and when they think it's the worst that can happen, then a pandemic comes along, which is a fire accelerator for poverty, and it hits them even harder. that is why it is important that we take the step now towards a european child guarantee and that we take binding steps. the s&d group has fought for this for a long time, so that the eu and the member states can provide the necessary resources and launch the initiatives. child support, poverty-stricken parents' wages, good social services - this is the triad that can save these children.
in writing. all children have the right to good nutrition, a good education and a carefree childhood. only parents can provide love and education for their children. it is the task of politics, of the state, to provide the framework conditions. but politics is failing here. child poverty is family poverty. families are suffering from high taxes, social security contributions, high rents and energy prices. the politicians are responsible for this. climate change, energy transition, taxation and the opening of borders have led to more and more families living in poverty. in germany, supposedly rich, one in five children grows up in poverty. that's 2.8 million children and adolescents under the age of 18. immigration plays a very important role in this. it has led to a dramatic increase in child poverty. the city of gelsenkirchen, where i grew up, the capital of child poverty in germany, is the best example of this. we do not need the commission to monitor us. child poverty should and must be tackled vigorously; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social security schemes. member states should intensify the fight against child poverty through targeted measures in the fields of education, nutrition, housing and health care. we have emphasized this in our amendments to the resolution.
mr president, by now i have spent more time as a remote parliamentarian than as under normal circumstances. i have learned to negotiate laws via webex, i engage with citizens over zoom, and i plead with the commission via teams. my team at home is constantly working remotely and my office is as empty as the plenary in strasbourg. even though i’m proud to say that this institution has weathered the circumstances really well, i can’t wait to go back to normality. but what will the new normality look like? what can be learned from these times? and what do we really want to return? we don’t have these answers yet but the discussions over the 2022 budget were very much marked by these questions. and so i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs, but also the bureau and especially the ep administration for finding good solutions and for really engaging in this debate and scrutinising the budget in the best way we can to find answers and to create space for these answers. together we agreed to strengthen the legislative capacity of this house. we agreed to find ways to travel less, to be more efficient and to be greener and more transparent. we agreed to pay more attention to gender—related budgeting and – and that’s very important for me as well – we created space for the conference on the future of europe to work. so, because of all of these reasons and also because it was my first rapporteurship, i would like you to vote in favour and i ask you for that.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank you, monika hohlmeier, for this report and for your work. it is an important first step or another step in the fight against fraud. the question is, is that enough? the big problem is - and i keep pointing this out - the cooperation of the competent authorities, of all the authorities. they have said it themselves: if this fails, if they do not work together, then a key success factor in the fight against fraud is missing. if we don't, it's all for nothing. we can make so many regulations, so many rules, and they are actually counterproductive, because they increase bureaucracy, they do not reduce it. we must therefore work harder to ensure that the various parties involved and the authorities also change their minds. it is not possible that in certain countries it is a good thing to embezzle money and then not to give an account of it; and others would like to do that. so, we need to work together more here. if we don't, it's all for nothing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we have all seen that image of a little lonely excavator and the enormous ship stuck in the suez canal a few weeks ago. i think this is really the perfect image for the eu anti-fraud programme. to stay in the metaphor, the programme is a good excavator. giving money to national authorities and ngos is great, of course, and we should do that, but one little excavator is not going to get that huge ship unstuck, and an anti-fraud programme of less than eur 1 million per year per member state is not going to stop fraud in the european union, of course. this budget line is supposed to protect a budget that is 10 000 times larger. it’s a nice symbolic start, but to overcome systematic fraud in the eu, we need bigger machinery – because some of the biggest fraudsters in the european union lead national governments. i’m talking about hungary, of course. hungary has received about eur 0.5 million from the previous programme per year and, despite that, there is a ten times higher fraud trade in the country than in any other member state, according to the european anti-fraud office (olaf). so we need bigger machinery. we need some strong tug boats. i think the commission needs to cut funding under the current common provisions regulation (cpr) provisions of management and control systems, which don’t work. the commission needs to start urgently using the rule of law conditionality mechanism. the commission also needs to increase the budget and the resources of our anti-fraud institutions, the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo), olaf and the court of auditors, because, if we’re spending twice the eu money over the next few years, we also need to spend twice the money on preventing fraud and corruption, i think. finally, the commission needs to ensure that we get a clear idea on the beneficial owners of those that receive eu funds because fraud really should not ever be given. it should be stopped in the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner breton, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. global military spending is back to the level of the cold war. last year, it rose to almost $2 trillion, while global gdp declined by 4.4 percent due to the coronavirus pandemic. these two figures are not related. the eu defence fund is now expected to provide an additional €8 billion in taxpayer money for the military. i really must disagree with the rapporteur, mr krasnodębski, on this point. instead of working together efficiently, putting our military systems together, getting stronger together, and saving money, we're setting off another money fireworks. let me give you an example. in europe, we're developing 180 weapons systems in parallel, in the us there are only 30. there are 17 tanks in europe, four in the united states. this list can be continued as you wish. if we combine the projects in europe, we could save between 25 and 100 billion euros a year, with the same defence capability. we must take advantage of this, because in the end, we are also short of money for education, climate protection and infrastructure, and these are the investments that prevent war most effectively. so we have a chance here to make a real eu benefit. we pool and share and develop our defence capabilities together, and i have to say this as a swabian, if i get the same performance for less money, i have to do it. the european defence fund does the opposite, and thereby consolidates a common european defence and security policy without a strategy. at the same time, we have given up our right as members of parliament to control the use of funds. there is no ethical review by independent experts and there is little transparency. that is not a viable defence policy. europe can and must do better.
the commission has already done so. "peace must be armed" is a beautiful phrase i heard as a child in communist east germany. it is exceptionally true. we know that peace is under threat at the moment, and that is why no one - at least not on my side of the house - will object to protecting it with strong military forces. but defence policy is a matter for the nation states for good reason. there is no majority in any major member state to pool them - that can be considered good or bad. and that is why we should be careful not to add to a competence that does not exist through such a european defence fund and to create another structure that ultimately only wants to be inefficient. we see in the vaccine procurement that these communities don't work, that they only lead to corruption and delays. we can spend that eight billion more wisely. they will not increase our security, but they will not bring about a positive effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if the eu is on its way to becoming a military union, if the eu wants to spend billions on bigger, faster and smarter war machines, then there is only one thing to do: say no! article 41 (2) of the eu treaty states that funds may not be used for military purposes. the commission has now come up with a trick: it will be a fund for the promotion of competition and industrial policy. but that's a farce, and you know it. the defence fund is a lump sum for giant new-style weapons projects such as the ai-powered, controversial future combat air system or the eurodrone. in addition, there is a lack of transparency and control. today the arms industry is bursting at the seams and tomorrow, sadly, the whole world is bursting at the seams. the eu must not set up a defence fund - that is irresponsible, that is unsocial, unethical, unenvironmental and illegal. we in germany will sue.
mr president, the defence budgets of the eu member states are actually higher than their allocations to the eu budget, so if member states want to develop arms together, they really should pool their national budgets. but apparently capitals decided to waste eur 8 billion from our eu budget for subsidies for the arms industry, and my colleagues from the ecr, epp and renew groups are apparently just too happy to support that. the least we can do now is to make sure that the weapons that will be developed with this money do not end up in the hands of dictators. that, actually, is also your job, mr breton, because according to not much heard of article 22(4) of the european defence fund regulation, the commission has the right to object to the export of edf research results to a third country, as no such export should contravene the security interests of the union and its member states. or, in less technical terms, the commission has a say in arms exports resulting from edf-funded projects. that’s why it’s time that we set up an eu-level arms export control system the very same day we spend the first euro from edf-funded money, because we have seen far too often in the past how national mechanisms of export control fail in cases of multinational armament projects.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european defence fund provides almost 8 billion euros in direct subsidies for the defence industry, and the question is: is this really the way things are today? in the defence sector, we see fragmentation, duplication, overcapacity and lack of transparency, and the worst thing you can do is write a blank check for eight billion euros without linking it to concrete criteria and procedures for better cooperation, for greater efficiency. military capabilities must be pooled and gaps in capabilities closed. it is good that autonomous weapons systems so-called killer robots are excluded from this fund, but it is certainly not good that the european parliament will not play a role in the implementation of the european defence fund for seven years now, in such a highly sensitive area. we need better european cooperation and a european security union, specifically with parliamentary control. the real need for the present is a transparent, accountable, human rights-based common european security and defence policy.
author. – mr president, covid is hitting hard in several parts of the world, but in a lot of latin american countries the pandemic is having devastating effects. it is for this reason that today, here in the european parliament, we express our condolences and our deepest solidarity with the people in latin america and we call on the european union to step up its support. but let me turn to one country that was most hit. almost 400 000 brazilians have died. this is a real tragedy, but a tragedy that could have been prevented and that was caused by deliberate political decisions. for no government is it easy to fight the pandemic, but there is a difference if you try, or if you just refuse. since the beginning of the crisis, president bolsonaro has refused to adopt science—based measures to contain covid. he has consistently downplayed the severity of the virus, he has encouraged large gatherings of people, he has repeatedly spoken against vaccination and mask wearing, he even tried to take governors to court for implementing local measures such as partial lockdowns, and now there are almost 400 000 humans dead. sadly, those who are most vulnerable are also the ones suffering the most. over 50 000 cases of covid have been confirmed among the indigenous people in brazil, with more than 1 000 deaths. the number of brazilians living in poverty has tripled and 19 million brazilians have gone hungry due to the pandemic. that is why today i call on the brazilian authorities to urgently implement a science—based approach to managing the pandemic and to take measures to address its social and human rights consequences. the eu needs to step up its support and especially to accelerate global vaccine distribution, because here the gap between the global north and the global south is shamefully huge.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i condemn the blasphemy laws in pakistan in the strongest terms, as i would condemn them in any country that legislates such matters. of course, i am particularly concerned about the situation of christians in pakistan, and the current debate makes it abundantly clear that there is every reason for concern, because pakistan is currently ranked fifth in the open doors world persecution index. but i also think we have to look at the big picture here. i would prefer if we tried to work with pakistan on the issue of blasphemy laws rather than sanctioning them. pakistan is on the front line in the war against terrorism. the pakistani government is fighting - sometimes at great expense - against terrorist cells that refuse to take a seat at the negotiating table. the pakistani government is on a very tight line; it has to balance its governance with the power of the islamic establishment. this balancing act is the heart of the problem. education has been de facto outsourced to the islamic establishment, and the resulting indoctrination has reinforced blasphemy laws. the solution to this problem lies in a consistent separation of religion and state. the european union must be able to play a role in the peace process in pakistan.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the digital europe programme is the best practice for how eu digital policy could be done. it is pan-european, which will benefit all citizens and companies in all member states. it puts digital skills and support for digitisation of smes and start-ups at the core of eu policy, and it ensures parliamentary scrutiny over every euro spent under the programme. i therefore thank the rapporteur and i also thank the shadows and the commission and the council for the good work on this file – but it’s clearly only a first step. our smes and start-ups have now all embarked on their digital journey. there are different levels of sophistication in this process, and we can help them succeed if we do a couple of things. first, we need to ensure that they’re not forced into a technical infrastructure that they can’t escape from. second, we need to ensure that the dominance of certain actors, for example in the data market, does not translate itself automatically onto the machine-learning and ai markets. and third, we need to ensure that the new standards that are being set for data sharing and such are not decided in a closed circle just between a couple of member states and between a couple of big companies. in the end, our european digital policy will only be successful if we understand that innovation can come from anywhere, and especially the smallest actors.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need to strategically make the digital transformation european, because progress and innovation do not happen easily. good ideas need investment and a political and social climate that makes them want to go. the digital europe programme is the first pan-european digital programme to shape this change. public and private investment, education, research and the use of digital technologies are the engines of progress. i would have liked to have had more courage and financial clout. i think it is more than regrettable that the member states have made substantial cuts in the negotiations. but i am glad that research and application of artificial intelligence is in the spotlight. the commission's draft law on the use of artificial intelligence, on the other hand, is still up for grabs. in particular, mass biometric surveillance of public spaces must not take place without exception. for good ideas and business models from europe to really grow, they need a common market. the digital single market must therefore be a top priority. the digital europe programme is an important first step, because investing in digitalisation is investing in the future. let us make europe the continent of innovation!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu's life programme has been running since 1992. it was originally intended to promote environmental projects, and that was a good thing, that was a great success. but with the focus on climate now relatively one-sided, the life programme is being integrated into the green deal. as a budgetary authority, i am in favour of an efficient use of funds, but against the increase in the life programme for so-called climate projects. these climate projects will hamper our economy, further weaken the independence of our nation states, further tax our workers and cripple them financially. we are exposing ourselves to these legal risks, and we are permanently putting our eu at a disadvantage to other countries outside the eu. i also question the hoped-for effects on the climate. even a total and global implementation of this utopian green deal on climate projects will not change the earth's temperatures, or only slightly. i am for biodiversity, for nature conservation, for respect for the environment and for the preservation of creation. however, i am against this bureaucratic monster, the green deal. environmental protection yes! the eu is a global player in the field of biodiversity. bureaucratic and one-sided climate projects no!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, dear virginijus, i am very pleased to see you here today. we will need a lot of money to protect our remaining ecosystems and to achieve our goal of restoring 30% of the ecosystems that have been destroyed. it is good that 10% of the eu budget is dedicated to biodiversity objectives - a green success. but we are still putting 40% of our budget into the common agricultural policy with minimal constraints, no long-term estimates, which means that 50% of the land is being poisoned permanently. we have today received the landmark judgment of the german federal constitutional court, according to which insufficient climate protection is a serious interference with the freedom of future generations. the same is true of the destruction of ecosystems, for this destruction is often irreparable. but without healthy ecosystems, there can be no clean air, no clean water, no fertile soil. is the european union about to be sued for ecocide? no, we have to act now! the european environment agency's report shows that the next decade will be crucial if we are to halt the extinction of species. therefore: we need binding targets in the eu recovery plan; we need sufficient funds to achieve these objectives. i therefore call on the commission and mr sinkevičius to put the fine words of the biodiversity strategy into practice and to present an ambitious plan for restoring nature.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to speak here about five things in connection with the report on the european commission's hydrogen strategy: the fields of application of hydrogen, the way we produce hydrogen, the market organization, infrastructure and international aspects. hydrogen is an energy carrier and an energy vector. we already know many applications of hydrogen. and i'm all for prioritizing how hydrogen is produced, but not so much where it's used. i will give you an example: the largest steelworks in europe is still located in the ruhr area - it is a good thing that it is still there - and it is currently experimenting with the removal of coal from the blast furnace and its replacement by hydrogen in the iron reduction process. as a result, the co2 emissions at this steel plant can be significantly reduced. we are one step closer to green steel production. so we have great potential right now in industrial applications, and since the climate, as we all know, is under pressure, we should get hydrogen on the market quickly. hydrogen is not a new discovery, but it's clear to most of us in the industry committee that we want to end up with hydrogen that comes from renewable energy. that is why we need a dramatic increase in renewable energy. how do we do that? if we are to consider renewable energy in the context of the recasting of the directive, i can imagine that we can have binding growth rates for all member states. i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that if we limit hydrogen to energy produced from renewable sources and only from surpluses of this energy, we will postpone the use of hydrogen technology for many years and then fail to take advantage of the short-term savings potentials - for example in industry - that i have just mentioned. so we are doing everything we can to support the production of hydrogen from renewable energy sources, but let's also start producing from low-carbon sources soon. this is a significant opportunity, not only for climate protection, but also for value creation and jobs. europe is the world leader in hydrogen technology today and it should remain so. for this to happen, we need a market order, and we need it quickly to ensure security for investment. i therefore welcome the commission's plan to present a draft later this year. transparency for customers and investors is necessary. the classification should be done along the carbon footprint in order to generate demand for the most climate-friendly hydrogen. if you want hydrogen from sustainable energy, you should be able to get it. the report welcomes the commission's proposal in the hydrogen strategy to start building up the technology where industrial demand exists. if hydrogen is to be used throughout europe and if its application in transport is to be realised, then we also need a european hydrogen network in due course. where gas pipelines are supported by public money, they must be hydrogen-capable. finally, i do not believe that the eu will ever become energy self-sufficient. we should therefore start negotiations with the eu's neighbours soon on the development of the hydrogen economy there too. this can only be good for the expansion of renewable energy, the reduction of polluting emissions and the social, ecological and economic development of the eu's neighbours. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. i am very satisfied with the result and have therefore not recommended the adoption of any of the amendments which are before us in the plenary. i also thank the staff of the group and my office, without whom this report could not have been produced.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu's impetus and framework for decarbonising our industrial processes and energy systems is absolutely crucial. of course, there are always pioneers among the member states, but we will only achieve the necessary quantitative effect for climate neutrality if we quickly say goodbye to new technologies from the fossil age throughout the eu. i am therefore very pleased to have been able to convince the vast majority of my colleagues in the environment committee to support the european commission's ambitious approach to building a hydrogen economy. the tasks for the eu are clear. first, certification of renewable and low-carbon hydrogen as soon as possible so that investment can be made. secondly, to create a level playing field for hydrogen by revising and adapting the relevant directives. thirdly, support for the construction of infrastructure and the conversion of existing networks. fourthly, the establishment of safety standards and recycling regulations from the outset. and finally, to develop and embrace international partnerships to promote renewable energy and renewable hydrogen, because the goal of a stable, carbon-free energy supply is a global one, as is our claim to remain a technology leader.
i have to say, madam president, our common goal - or at least the goal of most of the european parliament - is a climate-neutral european union. the basis for this is that we need to bring renewable energy to all areas: not only electricity, but also heat, transport and industry. the framework for this must be set at eu level. we must ensure that we connect the sectors, and we must do so intelligently. we must stop wasting energy, we must stop wasting waste heat, and efficiency must be our first priority. and that is precisely why we can only use hydrogen in those sectors which cannot be electrified, where we have no choice but to resort to a chemical energy source which, of course, can only be produced at a loss of energy from renewable electricity. in our energy system of the future, the pillars will be solar and wind, so fluctuating renewables. unfortunately, there is still a big gap, because to use these energies wisely and to keep the system stable, we need the digital network. the cyberattacks on the colonial pipeline in the us have shown that we need to do a better job of protecting our infrastructure from digital threats. i therefore call on the european commission to make a proposal here quickly, otherwise the transformation cannot succeed. we need a secure infrastructure, and it's high time we addressed that.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 18 may 2021, and the final vote will take place on wednesday, 19 may 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr manolis kefalogiannis, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the just transition fund (com ((2020) 0022 c9-0007/2020 2020/0006 cod)) (a9-0135/2020).
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we want to make europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050 at the latest. that's why we need the just transition fund as a core element of the green deal to reduce our co2 emissions to zero with an ecological-social transformation of the economy. with 17.5 billion euros - and yes, in the econ committee we have asked for much more, 40 billion euros, precisely because we can realistically expect - the fund is intended to support particularly those regions in transition which are currently dependent on carbon-intensive industries and fossil fuels. we are helping europe's coal regions to move towards a new future by investing in start-ups, small and medium-sized enterprises, social projects and cultural institutions, sustainable jobs, retraining and training. we are saying that change is possible and that people can be involved too! this is particularly important for us greens: the just transition fund does not spend a single euro on fossil fuels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined. change is possible, and the future of a climate-neutral europe starts now!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the jtf is the only social policy element in the green deal. the jtf is an insurance to all people that the transformation towards a climate-friendly economy will not only be compatible for everyone, but actually be beneficial for everyone. the jtf is the promise that no one will be left behind, and it’s the starting gun for the race towards climate justice. the jtf is therefore the most important component of the green deal and the best tool for piercing the thick board that is climate action. mr schmit, dear colleagues, now in its final form the jtf will enable much-needed investments in a forward-looking economy and in social policies. thanks to green pressure in the council and in parliament, no money will be burned in gas investments. instead, with the green rewarding mechanism we included an incentive to turbo-charge on climate protection. and the jtf is already having success before it has even been adopted: poland has finally announced it would phase out gas by 2049 because it does not want to forego jtf payments. however, if we want to be in line with the paris agreement we need to include a 2030 target. the green proposal for this was sadly rejected. well, at least the federal constitutional court agrees with us here. overall, we are all satisfied to finally come to an end with such a convincing regulation and yet all of us here are also very immeasurably disappointed. why? because despite the need for climate-friendly social policy, despite the effectiveness of this very regulation, and despite the explosive nature of climate protection policy, the council did not provide the jtf with the adequate resources to enable this tool’s piercing potential. eur 17.5 billion is too little money to 100 regions all over europe. the commission asked for 40 billion in the first proposal for next generation eu, but the council cut this more than in half knowing that this budget is not sufficient. it is simply a shame. the jtf is an efficient and sharp tool. due to the council, though, it’s just too small. so we greens get the impression that the current eu climate policy is like drilling through the thickest board with the smallest drill.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is about giving something to the regions that will suffer most - and there are many - in the hope that the collapse will not be too severe. but it's not to be expected that there won't be a break-in. and the debates we have here are elite debates, because we have to be prepared for the fact that in particular the middle class, the workers, will become poorer in the coming years. they are getting poorer because we are going to save the climate in 100 years with government directive and a planned economic model. i don't think the funds from the just transition fund will make up for the disappointment of those who will ultimately pay for it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 18 may 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr radan kanev, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the impact of eu rules on the free movement of workers and the freedom to provide services: labour mobility within the eu as a tool for matching labour market needs and skills (2020/2007 (ini)) (a9-0066/2021).
(the opening of the debate with the microphone off) ... from poland, the health system in germany would collapse tomorrow, without the butchers from romania, there would be no schnitzel in aldi's refrigerator, without the harvest workers from georgia, our asparagus would rot in the ground. and how do we thank these people? we pay them minimum wage, mostly, or sometimes less. how do they live? we'll pack them together in shelters that resemble slave quarters. this is how we thank these people. this problem has been known for decades. here our governments, the trade unions and the social organizations have failed completely. but everything will be fine now! now the eu is taking care of it! and how does she intend to do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this can only go wrong! we don't need the eu anymore! what we need is more germany, germany as it used to be, germany, but normal.
i have to say, madam president, corona is particularly hard on border commuters. no one suffers more from closed borders and lack of coordination between eu member states than border commuters. one of them is karsten. karsten lives in schleswig-holstein and works in copenhagen, as i do. thanks to german quarantine and danish home office rules, he was unable to commute between his work and his residence for several weeks. border commuters are often overlooked in the capital cities. when the covid test requirement for border commuters was introduced in our region, there was no sufficient testing capacity. closed border crossings and traffic jams from border controls have made the working hours of many border commuters increasingly longer. the border workers are often the most insecure workers and are often very poorly covered by insurance. it's time that changed. it is time that we in the european parliament, but also with the support of the commission, work to make this better.
the commission has already done so. the kanev report is an example of how things are going in brussels. we are not talking about the european parliament, but about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament. the answer is never to bury the original bullshit, but to spend more and more money, create more bureaucracy, more regulations, more administration. what's really scary is the human image behind it. mrs jamet has already said that the workers are treated here as worker ants, as wage slaves, as chess pieces. mr kanev said that if they do not have a job in their own country, they should simply move elsewhere. no, mr. kanev, they shouldn't, they don't want to. people want to work in their home countries, with their family and friends, and they do not want to be pushed across europe just because it suits the european union. this is a mistake and the free movement of workers should be ended immediately.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. what we have here is a call to open the borders to anyone who wants to immigrate to the eu because they don't like the weather. what we have is a demand for open borders and at the same time a resolution to confront anyone who criticizes this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination against immigrants. and in paragraph 74, third indent, you call for full protection for climate refugees. even civil war refugees are not afforded full protection. what, please, is a climate refugee? there are none at present. all the relevant investigations are questionable and come from left-wing lobby groups. of course, it's said that there will be 140 million climate refugees by 2050. even if it were, do you want to bring them into the eu? what you're asking for here is open borders for everyone. and this is a crisis that even in 2015 has not been there. you can be sure of one thing: we will put up a massive resistance. we will inform the people and we will make sure that nation by nation the parties that oppose this madness win. there is no cooperation here. there's only one thing we stand for and make clear in every national election: whoever wants open borders for anyone, whoever doesn't like the weather, they can vote for you. and if you want to preserve your welfare state, if you want your country to retain its identity, and if you want europe to remain european, you can vote for us on the democratic right. if you want to campaign on immigration, ladies and gentlemen, then you get to campaign on immigration, because we care about preserving our identity and our home, and that's more important than your klimonsense. bad weather is not a reason for immigration and not a reason for asylum. and if you want something else, we'll let the voters decide. i look forward to the debate, even if i would spare our home countries the need to wrestle with it. it should be self-evident.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the truth is that it is a real shame that we have had to hear the representative of the extreme right in this house talk about the climate emergency as a matter of bad weather; it is a shame, and you should give the same shame to all the members who are going to use their votes to try to empty this report with their amendments. and i wanted to start just like that, because it's not only the persecuted who need shelter, but also the refugees, and today climate change is driving as many people out as wars, violence or hunger, but also environmental conflicts caused by an extractivist and resource-devouring economic and commercial system. the ecocide impunity of european and other continents' multinational companies is incompatible with the european union's supposed climate commitments; green capitalism is not an option: only a radical change of the productive model of comprehensive energy transition in an ecosocialist key is possible. that is why we need binding mechanisms of sanction against those who commit environmental crimes and effective mechanisms of protection for those who flee climate change. climate refugees are today, even if they try to deny it, a sad reality that does not stop growing, usually because of our policies: the urgent thing is not to denounce the words of the extreme right or to say nice words in this house; the urgent thing is to convert and translate those words into rights, into rights for these climate refugees.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and mrs gonzález, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you so much for looking at the most vulnerable groups in the world and coming up with a lot of the right answers. there's nothing to talk about. the poorest, the most precariously employed, those who live exclusively on agriculture - and among them, above all, women - are the ones who feel the consequences of droughts, floods, fires, deforestation, species loss most acutely. often, along with their ancestral environment, they lose their culture and identity. and yes, the fact is that we have been consuming and using up resources much faster and much more in the developed countries than countries that have not yet entered the era of industrialization and mass consumption. we have a historical and moral responsibility to fulfil. ultimately, this responsibility is a matter of survival for all of us. we are now at the beginning of a new financial period in the eu and can now set the course. we must ensure that 30% of the new global europe financial instrument is actually spent on climate action and that additional spending is made on biodiversity. we must, together with the other industrialized countries, fulfil the international commitment to provide 100 billion dollars a year for climate action in our partner countries. we also need technical assistance for disaster preparedness, crisis response mechanisms, adaptation measures, local involvement, which we have to provide. but what we do not need, mrs gonzález, is the excuse for existing conflicts over land on the basis of ethnicity, corruption or oppression, and climate change. we cannot allow those who are actually responsible to blame the problems they have caused on climate change. what we also do not need, dear mrs gonzález, is to break the debate on new grounds for asylum. the unhcr has only recently publicly warned against this in the development committee. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of the epp amendments, so that we can concentrate on practical help and not on phantom debates.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no plenary week without a reference to the imminent climate catastrophe, even after the coldest april in 30 or perhaps 60 years. the subject of today's debate is the impact of climate change on vulnerable groups in the third world. the report is 54 pages long, full of generalities, half-truths and ill-conceived claims. we read: the richest countries are the biggest emitters of carbon, 40% of the world's population has little access to drinking water, climate change affects women more than men, and women are more likely to work part-time than men. but now the bad news: the eu must tighten its climate targets, create global justice, especially for women and migrants, and further facilitate migration to europe. it's true: women are disadvantaged in many parts of the world, and many of the poorest are actually women. but climate does not discriminate, poverty does, gender does not, more than anything else, reduce life chances. as friedrich engels has already observed, the life of a factory worker's wife has more in common with the life of a factory worker or her husband than with the existence of her workers. the eu is responsible for 6-9% of global co2 emissions. that means that whatever we do has zero effect on the global climate. the fact is, too, that in africa, about 850,000 children are born every week. the commission and parliament are calling for more and more migration to atone for climate sins - 70 million by 2035 alone, according to former migration commissioner avramopoulos. here 's a much better recipe for you: remodel 11% of the earth's surface, as called for by the zurich university of technology to neutralize co2 emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the resolution we are debating today emphasizes food security. right! too often, food insecurity affects the very people who suffer from poor health, economic insecurity and displacement. climate change is a key factor, because it often hits these people disproportionately hard. sustainable food systems are therefore essential to mitigate the effects of climate change and conserve our limited resources. with the food systems summit scheduled for september, the united nations is taking a critical step to promote such food systems and bring about sustainable change by 2030. the united nations has already marked may 22 as the international day for biological diversity. the european union must not only share but also support these two objectives. if this transformation is to succeed, and can succeed, it can only be done by women. they need protection, they need encouragement. women's rights are human rights. i thank the members who have made this clear in the motion for a resolution. we all need to be responsible for our planet, to relieve the burden on vulnerable populations in developing and emerging countries. gradual improvements in food security, health and so on can ultimately benefit not only our partner countries but always ourselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. crises are largely the responsibility of women. they are disproportionately affected by the impact, they are disadvantaged financially and professionally, they are fighting on the front lines. the climate crisis is exactly that kind of crisis. women are hit harder, but they have fewer opportunities to protect themselves or escape the consequences - especially women in the global south. women are not the only victims of this crisis. they play a key role in dealing with this. it is important that their extensive knowledge is incorporated into mitigation and adaptation strategies. the problem is that women are often not involved in decision-making. at the paris climate conference, only 20% of the negotiators were women. clearly, without gender justice, there is no climate justice! the climate crisis and its associated risks are not gender neutral. the voices of women and girls must be heard more at all levels. we are making this clear in this resolution. thank you, monica, thank you to everyone involved!
on behalf of the left group. mr president, today one in three people infected with aids do not have access to antiretroviral medicines. like many other diseases, aids is often the consequence and accelerator of economic, social and health inequalities. with the coronavirus, the devastating effects of aids have increased, but they have also gone unnoticed. the world is full of forgotten crises; let's not let this be one of them. in the face of global challenges like a pandemic, there is only one effective response: universal public health. access to health is a fundamental human right; vaccination and medicines should be considered global public goods. the market has proved unable to meet these global challenges. there is no room for private enterprise when the lives of millions and millions of people are at stake. we must free patents and put the rights of everyone before private interests. we will not tire of repeating that our lives are worth far more than the profits of a handful of pharmaceutical companies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. only those who value themselves protect themselves. that goes for everyone. we don't have to live every lifestyle, but in the end, we're gonna be successful. and if there are ways and means to prevent disease and to reduce deaths massively, then we need to use those ways globally. we have enormous differences in europe too. sometimes that means breaking out of old ways of thinking and going in a new direction. as a former agent for the german government, i quickly realized that substitution therapy, such as methadone, is always better than pure heroin use. so the thing about aids is, we have drugs, we have tests -- we just have to be consistent with them. every human being is worth the same and has the same dignity. this is the key to curbing hiv globally. decades of experience and lessons learned from the fight against hiv show that inequalities, including gender equality, stigma, discrimination and lack of local public health facilities are hindering progress in ending aids. even in countries that have achieved the so-called 90-90-90 treatment targets, too many people are still left behind. it is therefore of great importance to address various inequalities, to exploit fully synergies between structural prevention and treatment. forty years after the first report on aids and hiv, the end must be achieved by 2030 at the latest. thank you for that, tomas, thank you to all the initiators.
mr president, we socialists and democrats welcome the unaids global strategy ending inequalities, ending hiv/aids. this new approach under the leadership of unaids executive director winnie byanyima underlines the synergies and the links between hiv/aids and the 17 sustainable development goals. to win the battle against aids we need progress in almost all 17 sdgs. as a parliamentarian but also an activist since the 1980s, and a unaids champion, i remind that we must not forget key populations and vulnerable populations such as prisoners, drug users, sex workers, men having sex with men, transgender persons, young women and girls, and victims of sexual abuse. we need to tackle key populations and their specific challenges. for this, we need to call on all stakeholders worldwide to step up their efforts to encourage governments to recognise and reach out to all key populations in full respect of human rights and dignity. to end aids by 2030 we need sustainable funding. i call on the commission and all 27 member states to invest in global health. please support unaids and the global fund and all projects strengthening community health workers and projects empowering women and girls through good access to education and teaching them about their sexual and reproductive rights. it is possible to end hiv/aids by 2030 as a global health threat so let’s make it happen. thank you to the rapporteur tobé, and all those who worked on this fantastic resolution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the aids pandemic has been in the public eye for forty years. what is important is that we have been able to achieve partial success through education and through research. the figures have been reduced particularly in the industrialized countries. there are good drugs, but unfortunately, there is no cure. but in the developing world and globally, it's a very different story. the fact is that over 100,000 children and adolescents die of aids each year - a shocking number, and the grief of the parents is unbearable! we must not allow this unbearable suffering to become the norm in our century. we've shown with covid what we can do in a very short time. the commissioner, please take this good resolution to the un in june and put an end to the suffering with all that we in europe can contribute.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard a lot of positive things so far, but the negative is that we have a lot of planned economy elements in the proposed design, but that has not come out so far. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, no one in the report talks about affordable electricity for our citizens, no one talks about affordable electricity being the basis for economic and social development. instead, it is about realistic pricing in this area. mobility, as another example, has long been the victim of a completely planned ideology, and international partnerships are threatening to fall victim to the green deal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, an update of the eu's industrial strategy is giving rise to hope, hope for change. and this is the eu's chance to be at the forefront of climate action, to bet on a climate-neutral world market. and that is exactly what we would have expected from the eu commission a clear stance on implementing the green deal as a job booster, as a stimulus package on the road to climate neutrality. but what we have received from the eu commission is disappointing. a hesitant bet on pilot projects, where we actually need clear policy instruments and quick decisions for investment in the transition to a green, competitive economy. we must stop subsidizing fossil fuels, stop giving out free pollution rights and stop making state aid conditional on insufficient conditions. we need investment in energy and resource efficiency, in the massive expansion of renewable energy and in the circular economy. now is the opportunity in europe to invest in e-mobility, the expansion of wind and solar energy, battery technology and the zero-emission production of cement, steel and chemicals. now is the chance to make the eu the market leader in industrial processes and advanced technologies , both energy-efficient and resource-efficient. what we need now is a clear start to a climate-neutral, competitive, green industry with the courage to innovate, with far more clarity and determination than the commission has put forward in its industrial strategy. we must act now!
i have to say, madam president, the design shows light and shadow. the importance of the single market and diversified supply chains is rightly highlighted as a lesson from the pandemic, but it falls short of the keyword competitiveness. narrowed down to green and digital transformation, that's too thin, we have to drill more boards. a successful economic policy is less bureaucracy, it's understanding the needs of the economy as a whole, it's accepting that demand determines what is successful in the market. a successful economic policy, that is international trade, creates division of labour and comparative advantage for all. and all of this, all of this needs a master plan for the medium-sized business. smes, they are the drivers of more innovation, more jobs. they need to be the main actors, not just the supporting actors, so that private investment flows into the best ideas of the best minds. if we want the best ideas and the best people, we need the best education, we need synergies between science and smes. so we're going to be global pacemakers, not just following the dynamics of asia. it is only by supporting smes that we will be able to compete on equal terms.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i actually find it exciting that the title of this debate is "sea rescue" and we want to mourn the dead, and then almost everyone is talking about migration policy. i find that interesting too, but i think that if we take the subject that is on the table seriously, it has nothing to do with migration policy in the first place. this is a decision that we have to make first -- when you say it's the priority to save lives, as you said, or we have to do everything to save lives -- that you then clearly implement that priority. when we talk about migration policy, we do not choose to say: human dignity, human rights, the right to life are inviolable, and we must do everything we can to save people in distress at sea. it is absurd that we have a situation where in malta you can call the sea rescue centre seven times and you cannot report a sea rescue case because malta has decided that they would rather wait two days for a sea rescue ship to be sent! it is absurd that frontex flies planes over rescued people at sea and then does not inform boats in the vicinity, because we would rather see these people drown or be sent back to libya than be rescued as quickly as possible! and i think that if we are really serious about saying that we are europe, that we stand for human dignity, that we stand for human rights, that we want to do everything to save human lives - if we are really serious about this - then i do not understand why the commission does not finance, for example, maritime rescue ngos in the mediterranean, and why the council does not decide in frontex that from now on boats in the vicinity will be alerted when there are rescue incidents at sea. and i believe that this decision that has been made - not to do everything to save lives - is not only wrong, but also hypocritical, and that we should take it seriously and do everything to save lives in the future, and not have any debates about migration policy!
madam president, while humanitarian organisations like the catalan ngo open arms that rescue people at sea face the ballot on the austerity of governments, too often border patrols welcome migrants with violence, shoot them or let them drown, and these crimes are left unpunished. member states are only trying to cover it up and the commission has not clarified what role frontex is playing in this. as we speak, hundreds are trying to swim to reach tarajal beach in spain. in this same place, in february 2014, the spanish guardia civil fired rubber bullets against a group of migrants desperately trying to swim ashore and 15 of them drowned. all efforts to clarify responsibility for this atrocious crime have failed. fifteen people were murdered at tarajal beach. seven years later, no one has been convicted. when it comes to investigating the guardia civil, spanish judges are blind and, as usual, this case has been met with just indifference and silence on the part of the commission.
madam president, there can be, and there will be, no doubt: saving lives at sea, fulfilling international european and moral obligations is key. but search and rescue alone won’t solve the dire situation, because crossing the mediterranean is still the effect and not the cause. thus our aim still needs to be working together closely with third countries, improving sustainable living conditions, preventing people from making these dangerous crossings, taking specific actions against smugglers and traffickers. colleagues, we all know that it’s far easier to give simple answers than addressing a complex issue with an even more complex political answer, trying to get three institutions, 27 member states and at least most political families on board. nevertheless, future assessments will be made on the improvement on the current situation, so it was good that we at least started discussing the new pact that member states were willing to talk about it again. but we need more than willingness: we need decision and compromise. and part of the truth is that the whole pact will not work without effective border control and border management, and it will not work if we don’t step up our efforts for effective returns. so for this year, discussion is good; delivering is better. with illegal crossings on the rise, with secondary movement on the rise, we see that there is an urgent need for more pace, more ambition, more europe at the heart of the asylum and migration package. the only thing we don’t have more of is time. so let’s not waste any more of it, cautiously staring at each other, waiting for the other institution to move first. let’s start delivering.
the next item is the report by mr tineke strik, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the protection of human rights and the eu's external migration policy (2020/2116 (ini)) (a9-0060/2021).
the commission has already done so. some of you may remember the marx brothers, four brilliant american comedians. if you take away all the intelligence and wit from their performances, you are with those who are called the marx sisters in the libe committee because of their political preferences cornelia ernst, birgit sippel, malin björk and tineke strik. every statement they make is either ignorant or false or unrealistic or marxist nonsense - and so is this report. mrs strik, contrary to what you say, migration is not a global problem. many countries don't know it. only stupid rich countries that don't protect their borders know it. the arab world, japan, australia, or south america, they don't have a problem with mass migration. and contrary to what you say, rejection at the border is not inhuman. you, mrs. strik, don't open your door to strangers just because they want to live and sleep with you permanently. and resisting the forced entry is not a human rights violation, even if you say so. this report is rubbish, it serves only to smear and slander frontex, and you and your wealthy marx sisters should be ashamed of yourselves.
the debate is closed. the votes on the amendments will take place today, tuesday, 18 may 2021. the final vote will take place on wednesday 19 may 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr nacho sánchez amor, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission's 2019/2020 reports on turkey (2019/2176 (ini)) (a9-0153/2021).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the report we are about to adopt will not please everyone. i have already received a lot of critical feedback in advance, especially from ankara. but it must be clear to the turkish colleagues in particular that the criticism expressed here is not a matter of jokes and nonsense. for years we have stressed the importance of bilateral relations between the eu and turkey. for years our hopes, recommendations and admonitions have been hidden in the channels of communication between brussels and ankara. it is not necessary for the european parliament to paint a gloomy picture of the situation. the cruelty of the situation is reflected in the reality of turkey itself: thousands of prisoners, oppressed minorities, an increasingly arbitrary anti-terrorist justice system, and the breakdown of the rule of law. and yes, our group, my group, is not happy about this. we don't celebrate the differences that are growing. we do not celebrate the risk of a final split between the eu and turkey. we leave these shameful pleasures to the right, the populists and the fascists. on the contrary, we still have unbroken, albeit weaker, hope that the turkish people will one day be able to call themselves eu citizens and live in freedom. and yes, we also need tools for the time afterwards, because the road to that will be long, and it will get longer and longer. one instrument would be an update of the customs union, an update which ankara also wants. but for that we need the foundation, and the foundation for that is democracy and human rights. without this foundation, we will not get anywhere. and so the judgments of the european court of human rights must be fulfilled, the persecution of kurdish politicians and the persecution of lgbti people and women must stop, and their rights must be established.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. eu-turkey relations act as a flashlight, revealing the contradiction between the eu's value-based appearance and its power-based being. the desolate human rights situation under the regime today is made clear in the parliamentary report. the council and the commission are indeed showing confidence, as erdoğan has promised to improve his foreign policy and has even recently applied to join military mobility. but who are you kidding? in the context of current domestic developments, the assertion that foreign policy is improving is also a tranquilizer. if we are really in favour of human rights, we have no basis for a refugee deal - especially not with a despot - or for the renewal of the customs union. let's be honest here. there are two possibilities: either the regime's announced positive agenda is a farce, or it is bought at the expense of human rights in turkey. commissioner, which of these is true? you owe us an answer.
the commission has already done so. the images from israel, from gaza are shocking. anti-semitic hatred and terror are breaking through, reflecting lost generations. we have also lost because europe has for years accepted the relative silence on the israeli-palestinian conflict with a certain degree of relief, and has therefore accepted the result, knowing that nothing has been settled between israel and the palestinian people. the eu's retaliation is to hide behind the spectator's seat. the conflict is also changing european society, shaping our way of living together. last weekend, germany saw the largest anti-semitic demonstrations in over 80 years. europe must therefore finally take responsibility in the middle east, give up its political sleepwalking, step out of the comfortable shadow of the united states, start dialogue with legitimate partners, break the asymmetry between democracy and the rule of law on the one hand and hamas terror on the other. we in the european parliament must make use of direct contacts with the representatives of the israeli and palestinian peoples. the eu must provide a foundation for a peace plan, flanked by economic development and education reconciliation. no war will provide a lasting solution to this conflict, only civil societies on both sides willing to coexist peacefully will have the power and legitimacy to do so.
i have to say, madam president, i am shocked and surprised at the appropriation of the subject and the relativizing of the subject of what i have heard here. there is nothing right about stressing the right of a jewish state to exist. there is nothing progressive about defeating the attacks of an ultraconservative terrorist organization. there is nothing progressive about silencing or even justifying anti-semitic demonstrations. i am proud to be part of a movement that creates both, that recognizes both the two-state solution and human rights and the inalienable right to exist and defend itself of a jewish state. and of course we must strive to achieve real equality between jewish and arab israelis. of course we must fight for respect for human rights in the occupied territories. but we have had years to do this, and right now it is about one thing: the existence of israel and the saving of human lives. it is our duty under international law and our moral duty.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a safe and a healthy environment is a human right and companies or governments that knowingly undermine this for economic profit or for short—sighted political gain need to be held accountable. i know this sounds obvious, but there’s still a long way to go. i just have one example. an oil company in ecuador needed to get rid of toxic wastewater from its drilling activities and they simply spilled it into rivers for decades. the people living in the region got seriously ill. steven donziger, a human rights lawyer, represented them in court. they won the court case in 2011 and you would think everything is good. well, today, just 10 years later, stephen donziger has been under house arrest in the us for 600 days now because chevron, the oil company, staged a revenge trial against him. the people in ecuador are still suffering from the disease and chevron didn’t even pay a single us dollar of the 10 billion fine that they were sentenced to in court. and these are exactly the vicious circles that we need to break if we want to make climate protection and accountability a reality. in this report we clearly say what more the eu can do because an ambitious green deal is not going to be enough. we also need to protect the right to a safe and healthy environment globally and we need to support all those who defend it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not creative europe is a successful programme. but we must not forget that the cultural and creative sectors are in the midst of the greatest crisis of all time. millions of workers are still out of work and without prospects for the future. this is not only a disaster for art and culture - no, this situation is also eating away at the foundations of our entire society. the freedom of the arts in europe is threatened, partly because autocrats are taking control of art schools and because artists have no social security. europe is a community of values. the protection of art and culture is part of that. but to do this, the eu must also create income opportunities for artists when they are financially drained in their nation states because of ideology. creative europe is already doing this in many places, but unfortunately the application process is still too complex and grants are far too rare. creative europe should therefore be significantly increased. in addition, we need a culture and media fund without a crossborder component. and above all, we need a europe-wide social security scheme for artists, combining unemployment, health and pension insurance. where member states fail, the eu must do more to safeguard culture, cultures and cultural diversity in europe.
the commission has already done so. of course artists must be supported, but not at the expense of the taxpayer. the creative europe programme was already a corruption and propaganda fund for the left minority in the last legislature. now it's just a 63% increase in corruption and propaganda funds for minorities, and all at the expense of taxpayers. for example, what is funded by the creative europe programme? it finances circuses, including ethiopian circuses, and you have to ask mrs gabriel: have you looked at the map? ethiopia is not part of europe. and at the same time, they're funding the gender books, which includes a very nice one that i got, about a gay kangaroo couple who adopt a child through a lesbian surrogate. i'm also on the inge committee against disinformation. mrs. gabriel, is this really disinformation, or do you believe that there are gay kangaroos and lesbian surrogate mothers in nature? and then there are the films that you can watch on youtube, for example, where they fund pillow fights of children who are asked to think about whether they are both male and female, and dance classes for migrants and refugees that look like people are falling down on the command "fish" and shoving themselves. so if this is european culture, then europe is really finished. and this stupid fund, which has now unfortunately been increased, will perhaps help some unknown artists a little bit as social policy, but with creativity and with the demand for real culture, this has nothing to do with anything.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe cannot be learned, it must be experienced. that is why we now have two programmes to give young people a european experience: the european solidarity corps and erasmus+. erasmus is probably the most famous european programme and also the most successful in bringing people together. there is already a whole generation of erasmus babies. despite the need for the european project, and despite the fact that we have adopted a budget of 750 billion euros called nextgenerationeu, there is still a little bit of saving going on here. the commission president has not kept the first promise she made in her new office: erasmus has not been tripled - that is simply disappointing. i am extremely glad that we in parliament have fought for this youth programme across the political groups. we've managed to make the programs as inclusive and accessible as ever, and at least double the budget. i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee in particular: your stubbornness in the council, mrs sabine, has really made it possible for us to achieve something in the horizontal principles in all three dossiers. but we must also develop and supplement this programme. we must create equal opportunities throughout europe and give people of all ages a european experience. we need a common educational area in addition to erasmus and esc, and we also need a european sabbatical, which will enable exchanges in working life.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. everyone in europe is watching the esc but of course the eurovision song contest and the first semi-final in there. but i think in the future people will associate esc with the european solidarity corps, because it is the european voluntary service, and it offers the opportunity to combine solidarity with entrepreneurship and experience with learning. to have an adventure, to do good, to learn a new language, to experience a new culture, perhaps even to find the love of your life, to definitely get out of the house - all this is what esc offers. our aim is to give every young person in europe the opportunity to do so. and for that, i think we will have to increase the budget quite drastically again in the future. we'll get there. as we look to the future, i hope that through a common educational area we have created equal opportunities in europe and have made it possible to understand and trust each other. the european educational experience is underpinned and supported by a constant exchange thanks to erasmus+. and after school, it is a matter of course for our young europeans to spend a year volunteering abroad thanks to esc. in the course of training and later in the job, experience of working abroad is again gained thanks to erasmus and the european sabbatical. and through shared experience, solidarity and cultural exchange, we will pass on to future generations an understanding of europe that is unknown to all of us. the decisions taken today are the beginning of a europe made up first and foremost of people, of people who live in trust with each other.
mr. chairman, please. we are pioneering a regulatory framework for artificial intelligence. mrs verheyen, your report raises important points from an educational and cultural point of view. but these principles must go beyond these areas if we are to seize the opportunities of artificial intelligence. ethical principles and civil rights must be our guiding principles for the development and use of artificial intelligence. there must be no misuse of digital technologies, and the protection of our fundamental rights is non-negotiable. that is what differentiates us, and must always differentiate us, from authoritarian and totalitarian regimes. artificial intelligence must always comply with fundamental rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the new rules on the protection of personal data and the new rules on the protection of personal data. let us create a smart, sustainable and technology-friendly framework for ai, based on ethical principles and core european values.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in 2000, aids treatment cost $10,000 for a year. very few people in the global south could afford that. the epidemic exploded, claiming millions of lives. now you have to pay $100 for the same treatment, the death rate has dropped significantly, and all because patent rules have been made more flexible. patents make it harder to get access to medicines, and that was true then, and it's true today. human lives must be above the right to profit. we're not going to defeat the pandemic if more than 50 percent of the global manufacturing facilities that could produce covid vaccines are empty. we're not going to beat the pandemic, either, if only 0.3 percent of the vaccinated doses have reached low-income countries at all. we can defeat the pandemic if we act together, if we dare to throw certainties that we feel are true overboard. we'll defeat the pandemic when we finally produce more vaccine, and one of the building blocks of that is the temporary patent waiver.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. not only in the run-up to this discussion about the temporary suspension of patent protection for covid-19 vaccines, i have heard increasingly absurd phrases such as "open-source vaccines" or "free patents". but free patents are black mold -- they don't exist -- and open-source developments in this area are a chimera. developing effective and safe medicines requires time, expertise and, above all, investment in the lengthy and costly phase iii trials. and whether the marketing authorization will be granted in the end is by no means certain. patents are therefore the incentive to take these significant investment risks. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of medicines. we know this from the development of antibiotics, where new and particularly effective antibiotics are severely restricted in their use, so that there is little value in researching them. it should also be noted that patents are the legal framework for promoting cooperation. novartis, for example, is filling up the vaccine doses for biontech/pfizer, who couldn't do it in a hurry. in any case, relaxing patent protection would not change the price, because the construction of new production facilities is costly, especially since pharmaceutical companies are currently selling at cost price. and it's quite naive to assume that these novel genetically engineered vaccines could be, in some sort of a string, manufactured in any number of places, anywhere, and that would increase production. in fact, this would probably continue to be to the detriment of the safety of vaccines which are already only authorised on a conditional basis. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. that is why i am calling for you to keep your hands off the patent protection!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am indeed pleased to see a very nuanced debate on how best to get the world vaccinated. the main objective is to increase production capacity. it's about building regional vaccination centers in africa, to increase vaccination capacity. it's about supporting the licensing authorities in africa. the point is that we have to convince the americans that the export ban is nonsense. thank you, commissioner dombrovskis, that you will also take care of this. it is the same thing, mr minister, as you said, that we are fast, fair and flexible. we'll discuss that. the abolition of patent protection would do nothing temporarily change nothing, but in the long run cause very, very great damage. india and china - i don't know if you're following this debate today - are probably laughing their asses off at the level of naivety expressed here, partly by the left and partly by the green. the abolition of patent protection would mean the abolition of a value, a european value, intellectual property. that's what we need to develop the vaccine against the mutant. and the core debate, which is what this is really about, is that the mrna vaccine was developed to advance the fight against cancer. we europeans must lead again, and then we will share it with the world, just as we are doing now with this vaccine.
i have to say, madam president, releasing patents will not solve the vaccine shortage. on the contrary, it would be a rejection of the innovative power of the social market economy that has made vaccines possible. of the approximately 300 vaccine candidates worldwide, only 14 are approved. so far, very few companies have been successful. the risk of entrepreneurship must be followed by financial success. the example of biontech also shows that the tax money argument does not hold: 375 million euros were given by the federal government for vaccine development, in the first quarter of 2021 alone, corporate taxes will be 500 million euros. and it was biontech that announced that they would put the profits into expanding production. because bottlenecks are lack of production facilities and know-how. vaccines must be made available to all people quickly. we do this by expanding production and licensing. we must work politically to achieve this, because those who are in solidarity will not block the export of vaccines and will rely on public relations. the european union is a great example of solidarity.
in writing. i agree with the commission that without patent protection there will be no innovation and no research into vaccines in europe. we are the only region in the world that has shown solidarity with other countries by exporting vaccines. we have a long way to go: we need to increase production capacity and speed up delivery processes. and the vaccine must remain affordable. but removing patent protection or removing it through compulsory licensing would not help us in the fight against the pandemic.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i can take a lot of positive things from your motion for a resolution, mrs hohlmeier. it describes very well the alleged subsidy fraud in the czech republic. it also highlights the deeper problem of the lack of cooperation between eu supervisory authorities and national authorities. i have the impression that we are not getting anywhere here, that we are going in circles. and unfortunately the 108 amendments tabled by my colleagues, which are certainly well-intentioned, are also exacerbating this problem. the commission is continuing to try to put pressure on the national authorities. in amendment no 79, for example, you, mr tomáš zdechovský, even want the commission to ensure that the national law enforcement authorities are functioning. with all due respect, tomáš, for your personal concern about all this, but this is beyond the competence of the european commission. we cannot get anywhere with these means. the solution to the problem cannot be more regulation and more eu powers. we can only solve the problem if we succeed in stopping the flow of money and introduce a reimbursement obligation, whereby even in the event of ambiguities and irregularities, the entire amount paid by the eu plus 20 per cent of the processing costs will be reimbursed. it must hurt! and if this is not enforced by the national authorities, no more eu money can flow into that member state until the authorities cooperate and provide full transparency. we will only succeed in this if we succeed in hitting mr babiš where it hurts him most: in his wallet!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is the second time in a relatively short period of time that we have dealt with unclean conditions in a member state, the last time being malta. it is always surprising to see which political groups in this room have dirt on their hands. in malta it was the christian democrats and the social democrats, and here in the czech republic it is renew europe. we see that this kind of politics, which always talks about very high values, ends up in corruption, filth and lack of transparency where it has the power. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also a question of what the colleagues from renew europe will have to say when they take action against hungary and poland again, for example, because they are implementing the judgments of the constitutional court. you should start with yourself. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. we need transparency and not high-handedness, and above all we need an effective anti-corruption policy. that is what is lacking in this house, and above all in the parties sitting in the middle here before us, which never tire of using big words against countries - such as poland and hungary - where these problems do not exist.
mr president, this is not the first time that parliament discusses the conflict of interest of prime minister babiš. we are talking about the agrofert case not because there would be such a big disagreement in this house. no, on the contrary. however, the ball is not on our side. the commission and the council should act now and make up their mind: what do they want? are they willing to tolerate this oligarchisation of a member state? prime minister babiš and his agrofert group have captured parts of the czech state and its institutions. it is also about our external reputation. if we allow that the state and business interests are mixed up in one of our member states, then how can we criticise third countries? how can we demand substantial reforms from other states if we let this unlawful practice exist inside of our union for years? good governance and the clear distinction of business and politics should be the minimum requirement. the commission and the council need to save the union’s financial interests and our reputation, force the czech government to solve the conflict of interest, and stop the capturing of the czech republic. and yes, of course, germany should also implement the greco recommendations.
mr president, the case of prime minister babiš shows again what is going wrong in the european union. we still allow oligarchs to raid not only their own countries, but also the european union. money that is meant to support the people goes into the pockets of politicians and their clans, the most pertinent case of course being viktor orbán in hungary, but here it is in the czech republic. they deprive their citizens of the money that belongs to them, but this is not only about money. it’s about checks and balances. it’s about efficient control of power, and it is about maintaining citizens’ trust in democratic institutions, not only in the country concerned but in the whole of the european union. and i have to add something to my colleagues from renew. i’m really disappointed. two speakers in this debate both not showing the slightest respect for this audit, and i think this is not worthy of a group that usually upholds the rule of law. (applause)
mr president, andrej babiš has become a billionaire with eu funds, so it wasn’t a surprise that there was a risk of conflict of interest when he became finance minister of his country seven years ago. the risk for conflict of interest got even larger when he became prime minister four years ago. the commission has now certified that, but the conflict of interest persists. so the question to mr babiš is, when are you resolving this conflict? when are you stepping down? when are you selling your company or when do you stop taking eu money so that the conflict of interest goes away? mr hahn, you have cut a few million in project funding, but all the direct subsidies continue to flow. so he is still one of the biggest beneficiaries of eu funding with an unresolved conflict of interest. we can’t tolerate that, and i have to say to the council you accept that, although there was a conflict of interest, mr babiš negotiated the seven-year budget on behalf of his country – a budget of which he is one of the single largest beneficiaries. how can we accept that? i think those are questions to which not only czech citizens, but all europeans would like some answers. (applause)
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's a real shame you're not here today, because i'd like to say this to your face: your comments on anti-semitism are just shameless. because at the same time, you are defaming legitimate criticism of islam as islamophobia. we all know who has been calling out 'jews' in the streets of europe in recent weeks. it was the muslims. the other points you make in the report are also really shameless. in your motion you call for more rights and greater protection for gypsies and migrants. you've been very vocal about protecting persecuted christians, and you're a member of a catholic student organization. as a catholic, do you care about persecuted christians? your colleague gudrun kugler, of the ppe, regularly publishes cases of persecution of christians in europe. could you agree with your colleague and perhaps the övp in general on a line here? as a means of implementing the left-green identity policy, you also call for the recognition of gender identity and gender expression, the protection of children's rights by the abortion-obsessed fundamental rights agency, and the recognition of birth as a discriminatory feature in the future. mr. mandl, could you explain to your three children that this is a case of discrimination? i'd like to be there for that. and can you please explain to me what a non-conformist weather chicken like you has to do with catholicism? the european union's fundamental rights agency is certainly one of the most pointless agencies, and your report, mr mandl, is as pointless as that agency. your green-and-red cover letter should be graciously withdrawn, the agency abolished. i am grateful, however, because your report shows that the cdu/csu and the övp have long been part of the left-green coalition of the establishment in the european parliament, and you, mr mandl, are the steering wheel of this coalition of the establishment in full swing.
i have to say, madam president, the eu fundamental rights agency is dedicated to promoting human rights in the eu and is happy to fund studies on the favourite topic 'hate crime in the eu'. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat racism and xenophobia, and for the eu to support the fight against racism and xenophobia. when the british ship kent was captured in 1800 by the french privateer robert surcouf, the defeated british captain said, "you french fight for money, we british fight for honor". surcouf's line: "sir, a man fights for what he lacks most". the eu is fighting for illegal migrants because it thinks millions of them are missing europe. she's fighting conservative white men because she wants to get rid of them. the rule of law is the guise on which the tyranny of the leftist state flourishes.
member of the commission. – madam president, of course the commission takes note of the call to consider a more comprehensive and ambitious revision of the fra regulation in the future, and i’m sure that we have to analyse and discuss different propositions and possible evolutions. today, however, the key objective for us is to secure that the amendments proposed last year are swiftly adopted. a full lisbonisation of the agency’s remit and a removal of the multiannual framework procedure are indeed very ambitious targets already. those amendments to the fra regulation would ensure that the agency could work even more efficiently and independently than today. let me conclude by thanking you for today’s exchange and assure you that we will continue to work very hard towards this aim and welcome parliament’s support, the very large support in parliament, and swift action on this file.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking you. first to our former colleague miriam dalli, who started this report before returning to malta, which allowed me to take it up again. i also want to thank the fictional rapporteurs - who i see here - who have accompanied me in this work, which was carried out for the most part at a distance. i would like to thank the staff of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and those of my group, who have been extremely efficient and have given very good advice. and if you'll allow me, a special thank you to my assistant, diane, who just gave birth to joseph well before the due date, and who therefore cannot be with me today. i have some thanks to say but i'd also like to take some precautions. the subject of legal migration is one of the most controversial, if you will pardon the term. overall, some of your interlocutors will find you sympathetic, but will blame you for not going far enough. another part of all the other people you talk to will take you for a madwoman, a naïve or a criminal, and sometimes all three at once: mad, because economic conditions in europe should rather force the triple closure of borders; we'll be naive, because we won't be seen as invaded by hordes of strangers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. of course, colleagues will say what they think is useful in this debate. i hope that many will be positive in their comments, and that they will accompany them with proposals. for my part, i wanted to defend a different narrative of migration, one that does not systematically equate it with problems. as the european economic and social committee says, we must also talk about mutual enrichment and the positive influence of migration, instead of getting lost in xenophobic discourses. this was the basis for this report on new legal ways of labour migration. for many years, all migration policies have rarely been positive or at least non-restrictive. the directive on longterm residents, or the blue card directive, which has just been successfully completed after so many years of deadlock, are examples. foreign students and researchers are relatively free from the difficulties of access, but i would not say the same for the legal path of family reunification in the medium term. in all other cases, because massive, and sometimes violent, migration events have taken place, the union has responded by wanting to deal with the effects, with relatively little concern for the causes. above all, at no time is it taken into account that the fewer regular migration routes there are, the more irregular ones multiply, to the exclusive benefit of the smugglers. the latest asylum and migration pact presented by the commission is illustrative in this respect, as it is too weak in proposing legal migration routes. yet regular migration is a demographic and economic reality, as well as a human reality. who can deny that our continent's population is ageing? some of the member states, such as germany, italy and spain, are in critical situations on their age pyramid, with of course an imbalance between the number of active and inactive people. at that point i heard the comments: the thesis of his report is that foreigners are replacing europeans, according to the famous theory of the great replacement. no, i leave that to some tortured minds, because the idea is obviously not to replace active or inactive europeans with foreigners, but that these foreigners can be regular assets in a safe and orderly migration. the economic reality is also the same when we take account of the needs of workers in certain occupations. for more than a decade, vacancies have been exploding in some member states, for example in the hotel and catering industry, agriculture and agri-foodstuffs, or seasonal work. i recently attended a meeting with a french chamber of commerce and industry, which explained how it had to take the bull by the horns in implementing a programme to welcome foreign workers, because it had not been able to find local candidates and was at risk of losing whole sections of its local economy. the lucidity should also make us see clearly that during the covid-19 period, a very large number of frontline workers, especially in the areas of care, hospitals and personal assistance, were foreign workers. how would our societies have survived without these people? this is not new, because as early as 2005, silvio berlusconi wanted to expel the badanti, who helped the elderly italians, before resigning in the face of the outcry of his voters who were also employers. the report's objectives therefore include the desire to avoid deadly irregular migration and the fight against human trafficking, which is being practised by an increasing number of criminals. in this regard, we want to guarantee equal pay and rights, and facilitate integration and social inclusion. we also stress that the current legislative framework has created many inconsistencies, both for third country nationals and for employers. the current provisions must therefore be simplified and harmonized. among the proposals that are being made, i want to single out the desire to be able to help connect employers with potential employees through a european platform that would identify needs and talents, recommending that it involves all types of businesses, public services and voluntary organisations, and that it covers the largest number of employment sectors. with this own-initiative report, we call on the commission to react and propose new directives to strengthen the mobility of workers through appropriate instruments, in favour of legal migration that does not forget low-skilled jobs. with this report, there is a unique opportunity to change the narrative of migration. i am counting on political courage and clarity to finally speak of outcomes, win-win objectives and new approaches.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i welcome today’s debate on legal migration. je commence en félicitant mme guillaume pour son travail. this is the first stage of a report that will be followed by ms al-sahlani’s legislative initiative report to come later on the same subject. i particularly welcome that this report is called ‘avenues for legal migration’, because the question is not ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to migration; the question is how to make migration a successful experience. most of us participating here in this debate are ourselves migrants. both my grandparents were migrants at some stage of their lives, and most of us working here have left our home countries to find new opportunities abroad. many of us live, mix and work with partners, friends and colleagues from different countries and other nationalities, in our daily lives. migration and mobility is part of the european way of life, and migration can – and should be – a success story in europe. we just need to have the right framework to ensure that it works for the people embarking on it as well as for both sending and hosting countries. this is, in essence, what legal migration policy is all about. the vast majority of migrants arrive in europe legally. in 2019, our member states issued more than 3 million first residence permits to third—country nationals, of which over one million were for employment purposes. with the pandemic, the contributions of migrants to the european economies, labour markets and public services have become all the more evident. many of them – frontline workers, frontline heroes in this european struggle –contributed in a crucial way to making it possible for all of us to get through the crisis and address economic and social needs, in particular health care, food and agriculture. for example, in the eu, 25% of the workers in the personal care and food preparation sectors are non-eu-born. as we all know, legal migration is a shared competence between the eu and our member states. it is member states’ national competence to decide on the number of workers to be admitted into their own labour markets, but at eu level we can support this by developing harmonised rules on the admission and the rights of workers from third countries and, as you know, we have already done that for highly-qualified workers through the blue card directive, seasonal workers and intra-corporate transferees. legal migration is an essential component of the pact on migration and asylum, and it is part of the comprehensive external dimension of migration, allowing for the development of tailor—made and mutually-beneficial migration partnerships with key countries of origin and transit. the next steps on eu legal migration policy will also need to take into account all these lessons and the impact of the pandemic. in the short term, the travel restrictions imposed by all eu countries have implied the temporary closure of most labour migration channels, and the administrative capacity of national migration and consular authorities have also been severely affected. we have also experienced in the eu higher unemployment rates and a lower labour demand in the sectors most affected by the covid—19 crisis. now that our vaccination strategy is well on track and as we are working towards a recovery of our economy, we need to think strategically about the contribution that labour migration can give to this process. we all know that europe is an ageing continent. we all know that in many economic sectors and regions there are structural labour shortages that cannot be filled by the domestic labour force or through intra—eu mobility. we also know that the ongoing digital and green transformations require new skill sets, innovation and a specialised labour force, and this is where labour migration can play an important role. we are now losing the global race for attracting the skills and talents that are needed for our competitiveness. that’s why it is so crucial to get this right. only one in four highly-educated migrants residing in an oecd country chooses an eu destination: one in four, while almost two out of three choose rather to settle in north america or oceania. so this is a compelling factor: to act, and to act now. please let me express publicly my gratitude to the european parliament for succeeding in reaching an important emblematic political agreement on the blue card directive last monday. well done, javier. the new scheme will introduce efficient rules for attracting highly-skilled workers to the eu, including more flexible admission conditions, enhanced rights and the possibility to move and work easily between our member states. adopting the blue card is a central objective of the new pact, and with this agreement we send a strong signal about our collective ability to agree on key migration files and equip ourselves with a future—proof migration system. but of course, legal migration is not only about highly-skilled workers. i fully agree that we also need labour migrants in low and medium-skilled sectors, because our economies depend on those and the full range of professional chains and the skills that are needed to support them. in the short term, i want to start by presenting quickly the main proposals on legal migration that we have in the pipeline in the commission. by the end of this year, as we announced in the pact, we shall present a skills and talent package. the aim will be to address the main shortcomings in the current legislation, as demonstrated by our comprehensive evaluation of two years ago, the fitness check on legal migration and the public consultation conducted recently. firstly, as i remember very well that i promised during my hearing before this house, we will propose a revision of the long-term residence directive to improve the rights and the intra-eu mobility of those migrants who are already well integrated in our societies. we will also propose a review of the single permit directive to achieve its full potential of making the admission of low and medium—skilled workers easier for employers and migration authorities. finally, we will also set out the options to develop an eu talent pool, which will be an eu-wide platform for international recruitment that would help match the skills of migrant workers with the needs of eu employers. eu employers often do not consider using international recruitment to meet skills needs, and international matching, long migration and market test procedures are often a barrier. added to this is the lack of transparency, and it is costly, especially for small and medium—enterprises. so we need to tackle this challenge with an eu-wide tool. i am aware that this is a sensitive area, where there are very different views on the development of this legislation in certain member states in particular. we also saw that in the negotiations on the blue card directive. but i believe that these future initiatives are necessary, proportionate and targeted and will help us improve the current legal and policy framework. let me finish by offering a look at the long term, and here i would welcome the more forward—looking suggestions of your report. beyond the legislative changes, there are other things that can be done to foster legal pathways to the eu. i have already mentioned the talent pool, but another important initiative is the development of talent partnerships with partner countries. here, the aim would be to provide a framework to mobilise eu and member states’ tools for cooperation with partner countries on legal migration and mobility, building on and scaling up some pilot projects that we have already developed in recent years. it is now time to draw on this experience and build mutually-beneficial, win-win partnerships with countries of origin on migration. the commission will provide political, financial and operational support, and i want to put together a robust and impactful eu offer for these talent partnerships. talent partnerships will be launched in a high political level virtual conference on 11 june, and i would be very pleased to have the chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), mr lópez aguilar, representing the parliament on that occasion, and i count on your contribution to this important project. i am looking forward to working with the european parliament in the months to come and further discussing your input and suggestions on the way forward.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, rebuilding our economy after the pandemic, maintaining prosperity and innovation – not only for the next years, but for the next decades to come – will be a huge task. for better or for worse, we are not alone in this competition: there is, and there will be a global race, a global need for the most talented. europe should not lose out in this competition, but so far we do. the united states, canada and australia are attracting far more talent from abroad. so it’s a good time to assess europe’s existing rules on legal migration, looking out for ways to improve the tools at hand, seeking ways to enhance better coherence and helping member states fulfil their needs. we can work on this with a whole bunch of measures: by conducting well—elaborated labour market tests to better match needs and skills; by further developing the talent partnership that we just heard of with key countries, having also in mind the future talent pool that the commission is working on; by making full use of the reformed blue card where we’ve just reached a major breakthrough; and by using legal migration as an essential part of our relations with countries of origin and transit. the key for this to be a success is the right context. legal migration is essentially linked to labour market needs and thus the member states are competent to decide on the numbers, the conditions, and the type of labour migration for which they grant access to the labour market. in this spirit, i look forward to a close and good dialogue with commission and the council to assess the right mix between new legislation, already foreseen, and adapting existing tools and improving coherence between them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, what image comes to our mind when we hear the term ‘migrant’? what happens if you replace that term with ‘international talent’ or even ‘expat community’? our debate on migration is distorted. the fears of losing our culture are inflated by right wing populist rhetoric. however, migration lies at the basis of all european culture, as the vice president said. today, 95% of all migrants come to europe regularly, many of them with some form of a work visa, contributing to our society’s diversity, to our economy – and, to be frank, offsetting the effects of an aging society on our pension schemes – and helping us through this crisis, as it has been said before. i come from the private sector, and i’m in close exchange with many start-ups across the continent. next to a lack of access to capital, their key success factor is access to international talent. only sufficient talent will enable them to thrive and create jobs for europeans as well. but we still fail to attract the best talent and skills. in fact, even under trump, the us was more attractive to migrants than the european union. why? because first, we are still seen as a rather racist society. and second, because we don’t have a unified labour migration system, but 27 separate ones. our national governments still think it makes sense to compete against each other when it comes to migration. with this report, we have shown that there is a separate way: a new way. together as one house we ask to europeanise our system to ensure that we get to a european migration code, and that migrants can profit from the full european labour market, and that we can profit from them. second, we ask to foster equal conditions for everyone who works here, no matter where they’re from, when it comes to wages, rights and working conditions. we have to fight labour exploitation. and third, we ask for new pathways, and i’m very happy that the vice president has mentioned some of them, like the talent pool, which i’m presenting at some point as a pilot project. but there are others: youth mobility schemes, visas for job and vocational training, the long-term residence directive and the single permit. it’s clear: europe is strongest if we work together, especially when it comes to labour migration.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there has always been migration: in the past, my ancestors migrated to america, like millions of other europeans, and today people migrate to europe. and frankly, we can be happy that europe is now a country of immigration and not the other way around. it shows our prosperity. but to maintain this prosperity, ladies and gentlemen, we must organize labour migration better than before. there is no organized immigration into our labour market. that's why so many people who are called migrant workers come and apply for asylum, when there is really no reason for these people to be asylum seekers. we need to channel and separate these flows better to actually help those who need our help - those who have a reason to be here as asylum seekers - so that we can help those who are fleeing war and so that we can be more selective about who we invite into the european labour market. i believe that we need european regulations for this. we have proposed a talent pool in renew, where member states can say 'yes, we want to take people in' and other member states can say 'no, we don't want to take people in'. i want to be clear here: this is not just for the highly qualified, because we have indeed - and many have raised this here - a problem. but we also have a problem today in many trades, in many other fields of work. and to do that, we need to create a european way for people not to have to go on the dangerous journey to europe, but to apply for such a talent pool in their home country, or to apply for asylum in their home country. this would significantly ease the migration situation in europe.
in writing. in germany, foreign hartzivrecipients received almost eur 13 billion per year in 2018. this means that hartziv payments to foreigners have doubled since 2007. the number of german regular subscribers including the "new germans" fell from about 5.8 million to about 3.4 million in the same period. as a result, the total annual payment entitlements of hartzivbeneficiaries also decreased by eur 1.67 billion compared to 2007, and were last eur 34.9 billion. eur 6.1 billion was for people from the eight main countries of asylum. 15% of foreigners legally resident in germany with the right to work are unemployed, more than twice the german average. in addition, there are other costs for the recipients of the hartz iv and payments to foreigners and newcomers who are not entitled to work or are not provided with a job, i.e. the majority of migrants. according to the calculation basis of bernd raffelhüschen, the 3 million immigrants who have arrived or born since 2015 cost germany around 30 billion annually, but in fact probably more than twice that. labour migration is a myth, and the need for more foreign labour is a myth. the majority of migrants to the eu are unskilled or underskilled people who are redundant in the digitised or automated post-industrial service economy. if they are willing to work, they will at best push the incomes in the low-wage sector.
in writing. the id resolution rightly emphasises that the legal emigration of highly qualified citizens from many countries of origin leads to a depletion of human capital and seriously affects economic and social development in these countries. the joint resolution, on the other hand, describes migration as something that is consistently positive and beneficial, both for the emigrant and the target society. as i said, emigration is not a positive thing for poor countries. a 2017 study by the university of essen/duisburg pointed out that the emigration of active, mostly still above-average skilled people is a disaster for poor countries, blocking any chance for economic and social development. many countries in africa have very weak public health systems. yet, many doctors and nurses work in our hospitals. this emigration is in the interest of the african rulers. this is how critical voices are exported. the emigrants support their local economy and indirectly the corrupt regime by sending money home.
rapporteur. – madam president, shaping the digital future, removing barriers to the functioning of the single market and improving the use of artificial intelligence for consumers – that’s what we’ve been working on for a number of months now and i want to thank my fellow shadows and their offices, and those committees who have contributed opinions to this report. we’ve had strong cooperation, resulting in a balanced report that clearly identifies areas we believe can and should be acted on to improve the functioning of our single market in the digital area. the last 12 months and more have demonstrated to us the value of digitalisation and how it can contribute to bringing people together, to connecting businesses to consumers and connecting business to business. but we can do more to make our single market work better for citizens and businesses, make european smes, micro-businesses and larger companies more competitive, and improve their potential to compete globally. as always, we need to remove unnecessary and unjustified barriers that occur at national level and emphasise the need for a strong european approach that gives certainty to enterprise. european companies should engage with an eu approach to regulation and not have to engage with 27 member state approaches. this certainty will encourage entrepreneurs and others who want to expand and establish themselves in the european union, as they will know that the eu is a place where they can do this. they know for sure what’s expected of them. there will be no barriers, no borders, just a market of 450 million citizens and the support of european regulation that provides legal clarity. european regulation that is trustworthy, fully compliant with fundamental rights, consumer protection rules, data protection rules and is non-discriminatory. these are the traits europe has established for itself and as a leader worldwide, and the traits we also want to embed in our digital rules. of course, this approach is always essential for our public services that support our citizens, regardless of where they reside. as we continue to deal with covid and the fallout from the pandemic, as we face our ambition of implementing the eu green deal, and as we reorganise our healthcare services, digitalisation and emerging technologies such as ai can and will contribute to reaching these objectives. it is really encouraging to see that 25% of the eu rescue fund is going to be earmarked for digital and we must not waiver from that. funding for smes, innovation and tech entrepreneurs is vital if we are to facilitate the development of the eu tech space that we so badly need. if we look at our global competitors in the ai sector, like the united states or china, we can see that more private sector investment is encouraged there than it is here in the european union. yes, we have our investeu, our horizon eu and other programmes, and these are enormously successful, but we must also introduce policies that leverage private sector investment in terms of venture capital or seed capital. we need that private sector investment to ensure that we don’t have scale-ups for sale here in europe, and we don’t have start-ups that will scale up in third countries. we want eu successes. i really welcome the commissioner’s recent proposals to support artificial intelligence through regulation, proposals designed to encourage its use and, importantly, to encourage consumer confidence. ai has enormous potential to address many of the challenges that we face today in the healthcare sector, agriculture and transport, and in developing our smart cities. the list is endless and it does go on, but ai is not without its drawbacks or its risks, such as lack of transparency or traceability, or lack of human oversight, bias decision-making, etc. these need to be addressed through regulation. we already have our data protection rules, privacy rules, non-discrimination rules, but we need to protect consumers as we do with product safety and liability. we need the same protection online as offline, but there are gaps and these need to be addressed. we need to inform consumers on the use of artificial intelligence, where it is being used and when they are engaging with it. consumers have a right to be adequately informed in a timely and easily accessible manner where ai exists and the possible outcomes, how the system is established, is checked, how it can be contested and how it can be corrected. this is a very important position that we have reflected in our report today, because we believe that these criteria are essential if we want to encourage consumer confidence, and they will in turn feed into an ecosystem that allows ai products and technologies to develop. there are risks with artificial intelligence; i don’t deny that. in some areas of operation, the risks will be higher than in others. and we want to see a risk-based regulatory approach that would regulate the highest risk and, as consequence, for lower risks we would have less regulation. there must be the possibility to also prohibit harmful or discriminatory practice. we don’t want to see a binary approach to risk evaluation that could become quickly obsolete, but rather a forward-looking approach that is not application-specific but that gives certainty to developers, certainty to investors and indeed confidence to consumers. so artificial intelligence and the future regulation that we are going to be dealing with in this house are important. it will send out a message that europe can be a leader in this area, as we were with the general data protection regulation. there are gaps. i think it’s another ideal opportunity to lead internally but also to lead on a global basis in terms of how we can deal with ai and boost confidence, both for consumers and for business.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already done so. our aim is a strong european sector in artificial intelligence. this requires legal certainty and development prospects at the same time. the solution is a risk-based regulatory approach that takes into account high-risk applications. let us define them now without compromising european competitiveness. let us fly, not hinder! we create trust with transparency rules. i want everyone to know when they're dealing with ai, like on the phone. and we are also investing: from digital europe and horizon europe, one billion euros a year in artificial intelligence, to hopefully trigger up to 20 billion euros a year in additional investment from private individuals and from member states. the rrf of the reconstruction fund will add another 134 billion euros for digitisation this will be a turning point in our quest for technology leadership. now we have to develop the applications of tomorrow. and that requires playgrounds for experimentation, like the sandbox environments. legal certainty and trust, investment and innovation so that we are fit for the challenges of tomorrow and beyond. i would like to thank all the members for their constructive cooperation. i think we have achieved a good result.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - i'm not going to let you go. solutions based on advanced algorithms and harnessing the power of artificial intelligence will play a key role in the modernisation of the european transport system. this is not only about automating transport, but also about creating intelligent traffic management systems in cities and solutions that improve the safety of vehicles and drivers. without harnessing the potential of the digital revolution, achieving the goals of vision zero will be virtually impossible. one of the key barriers to the practical implementation of ai-based technologies in the transport sector is the lack of clear and consistent rules on the allocation of liability in the event of a breakdown or accident. it is also a challenge to ensure that vehicles and infrastructure that communicate with each other are cybersecured. this is a point which we must stress in particular in the work on the regulation on artificial intelligence. in order to create innovative products and services in the transport and tourism sectors, european businesses need huge digital data resources. we should create a system of incentives for member states to make public data freely and free of charge, including data falling within the scope of spatial information infrastructure such as geodetic and cartographic data. only then will our potential in artificial intelligence be able to deliver real economic benefits.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on behalf of the committee on culture, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation and the inclusion in the report of many aspects of the committee on culture. however, i very much regret that it has been possible to include a reference to the abolition of geoblocking in the report, which is not only inappropriate, since the report should in fact deal with artificial intelligence for the most part, but is also obviously based on false assumptions. the review of the geo-blocking regulation, as well as surveys in the eurobarometer study, do not see an increased need and demand in this area for the audiovisual sector to lift geoblocking. the commission's evaluation of the geo-blocking regulation also concluded that the evidence available did not justify a change in the scope. the licensing and legitimate geo-blocking practices underpinning the digital single market in the audiovisual sector in europe remain fully justified. i would also like to remind colleagues that the portability regulation has already shown a good way of making audiovisual content accessible. i therefore ask that the committee on culture's competence in the field of ... (the president cut the speaker off)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. how can we shape our digital future to improve the use of ai for consumers? i think that the first thing to do is to clarify the law. that means closing loopholes, but not reinventing the wheel. the existing sectoral rules must not be overridden. secondly, producers and users need a reliable, clear and future-proof legal framework for ai that enables innovation and protects against discriminatory applications. third, ai-based robotics and the internet of things must be secure. the authorisation of products on the internal market should therefore depend on the risk associated with their use. and last but not least, smes and start-ups need support in using ai and in making products that incorporate ai. if we take these four points into account, we will be able to take an important step towards ai made in europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not europe's economic future depends crucially on whether we lead the digital transformation or continue to lag behind it. i want us to take the eu to the forefront of innovation. this means, first and foremost, that we are enabling the potential of artificial intelligence to unfold. first, we need fair competition between small and large players, between small and medium-sized enterprises and tech giants. and that's with clear rules that make it easy for the startup to scale and to scale the requirements. we must encourage innovation, not inhibit it. and we can do that if we stay open to technology and take a risk-based approach. because the application and the associated risk are the focus. we see this in the case of facial recognition, which is very useful for unlocking your phone, but biometric surveillance in public places is a threat to our civil liberties. as europeans, we must be confident in shaping digitalisation, but we must not do it alone. independence must not become synonymous with protectionism. on the contrary, if we want to set value-based standards for the digital space, we need to do so together with democratic partners. so let's start an ai alliance with the united states. i work for a digital europe where the desire for progress is the credo, where start-ups can become global corporations and where there is fair competition. we are now in a position to create a policy framework for artificial intelligence in which future dreams can become reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this report is a start, but it is only a start, the work is only just beginning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. digital technologies appear at first glance to be clean, elegant and intangible. this is quite different from the more honest coal industry in my country. but the first impression is misleading, because the resource and energy consumption of digital technology is enormous and growing rapidly. and we see a contradiction with artificial intelligence in particular: it's going to be part of the solution to saving the climate with smart grid technology and resource-efficient manufacturing, but on the other hand, the energy consumption of machine learning is so high that we need to make clear decisions about what ai applications we want. a single training cycle for a speech processing model produces as much co2 as 125 flights from new york to san francisco. in order to make such informed decisions and make the green deal a success, we need a standard to measure the environmental impact of digital technologies. the eu commission must urgently come forward with a proposal to make digital technologies the sun of the future, not the coal.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. environmental crime pays off! with a worldwide profit of 258 billion euros per year, it is one of the most lucrative criminal activities in the world, according to unep and interpol. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very good one. the problem: vague legal terms, different ways of dealing with penalties and inconsistent national implementation leave the eu with only a patchwork of regulations to effectively hold companies accountable for their environmental damage. a reform of the eu environmental liability and environmental crime directives must provide clarity on this as soon as possible. the transposition of directives into regulations could bring about greater uniformity and an end to the regulatory patchwork. the scope must also be adapted to the full breadth of the green deal. crimes such as illegal logging or illegal fishing must be included. the damage to human health, for example by cheating on emission standards, must also be included in the scope of the directive. this would also be an important building block for a socially fair european green deal that delivers on its promise to make change truly fair for all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and it is in this context that the commission is proposing to introduce a new system of penalties for environmental crimes. i would like to thank the civil society organisations and the brave citizens who have helped to ensure that environmental crimes go unnoticed and, above all, unpunished. in future, they must be able to make their voices heard more easily in court. ladies and gentlemen, with the european green deal we have established the observance of a relatively simple principle: the polluter principle. those who pollute the environment must be held accountable. this principle must be strengthened by reforming environmental liability and environmental crime rules, because this is also the cornerstone of a fair and sustainable economy, where entrepreneurship and responsibility go hand in hand, not only towards shareholder interests, but towards society and the environment.
we now continue our debate on the report by mr antonius manders, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the liability of undertakings for environmental damage (2020/2027 (ini)) (a9-0112/2021).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. at the end of april, the federal constitutional court ruled that the german climate law was flawed and unconstitutional, because it violated the freedom rights of future generations, including unborn ones, and of numerous migrants who may never have heard of europe, but who will surely come if the federal government calls them. the german constitution, the judges argued, establishes a general duty of the state to protect the climate and gives the federal government the task of implementing the paris climate targets not only for germany but also to save the world's climate, regardless of the climate policy of other states - all this without any basis in the wording and the previous interpretation of the constitution and without any reason at all. it is in this spirit that this bill now calls for the recognition of ecocide as a new capital crime against our planet, the creation of green police brigades and the endowment of ngos with sovereign rights as public environmental advocates with immunity from prosecution. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. for plans that must fail because they are against the world order. germany generates less than two percent and the eu less than eight percent of global co2 emissions. so you want to try the impossible and save the world with no chance of success. and in doing so, you are destroying the very foundations - the very economic foundations - of our continent. europe has survived countless wars and epidemics, but no one can survive the eu and this nonsense - and certainly not europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you again for putting the topic of the liability of companies for environmental damage on today’s agenda. our citizens expect us to ensure accountability for their own protection and for the protection of the environment. and thank you for recalling the various challenges involved in ensuring accountability for environmental damage. i can assure you that we are very mindful of all of these challenges and that we truly aim at improving accountability mechanisms and frameworks. let me now briefly address some of the key points you raised in today’s debate. the commission fully agrees that we need to consider the added value of new or revised legislation, and that’s why we have concluded that we should propose a revision of the environmental crime directive. and i’m very happy that my colleague didier reynders has joined us very much on time. we don’t exclude a possible revision of the environmental liability directive either. but in line with the better regulation approach, the next step is an evaluation of how that directive stands. in carrying out that evaluation, we will of course pay very close attention to any position the parliament takes. on the issue of ecocide, i’m aware that there is a clear interest by many in this house to look into the notion of ecocide. but we need to analyse this issue very carefully. clearly, we need to be able to tackle the most serious environmental crimes. the upcoming revision of the environmental crime directive may provide an opportunity to address, amongst other things, some of the concerns reflected in the various campaigns related to this issue. in particular, it is important that the gravity of environmental infringements is reflected in the sanctions. however, the international dimension and the role of the international criminal court seems to be even more relevant and important. and we need to bear in mind that the eu is not a party to the to the rome statute of the international criminal court. madam president, honourable members, accountability for environmental damage is extremely important, and i would like to thank you for your strong support in this regard. the commission is committed to improving systems of accountability across a broad front, and we hope to be able to respond positively to your concerns about gaps and weaknesses. let me recall that we will present this year a legislative proposal on deforestation under my lead, and on corporate due diligence under the lead of commissioner reynders. with this, let me conclude, and thank you for today’s exchange and for your work on this important report, which we will certainly take into account in our future work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 may 2021.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the importance of civil justice for economic recovery after covid-19 by adrián vázquez lázara, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000016/2021 b9-0014/21) (2020/2884 ((rsp)).
in his capacity as author's substitute. madam president, commissioner, we are living in pandemic times. we've been put in an emergency situation. the economic climate created by the current covid-19 crisis will inevitably put severe pressure on the civil justice system in both the short and medium term. these concerns are based on the prediction that the economic downturn will lead to an increase in civil litigation. the trend is expected as we have also seen it after the credit crunch resulting from the 2008 crisis. there is a real risk that capital will be locked up in litigation rather than contributing to economic recovery. the speed with which these cases are resolved is therefore an important factor in successfully overcoming the crisis and, of course, a serious challenge for the civil justice systems in the member states. we have repeatedly called on the european commission to take action in this direction in the european parliament. i will give an example of two legislative reports on our own initiative which we adopted during the last term of office and which were aimed specifically at achieving a faster settlement of civil disputes. there are two resolutions. one of the 2017 reports, for which i was rapporteur, contains recommendations to the commission for the establishment of common minimum standards for civil procedure in the european union. the other resolution, of 13 december 2018, contains recommendations to the commission to create conditions for the expedited settlement of trade disputes. unfortunately, we have waited a long time for the european commission to take these two recommendations into account and come up with concrete legislative proposals. it's high time that civil justice becomes a priority, especially now that it also depends on how we respond to the covid-19 crisis. because, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an objective that we must not ignore: that of making life as easy and as secure as possible for european citizens. this requires easier recognition and enforcement of judgments from one member state to another and the guarantee of equal procedural rights. it is a fact that, in their efforts to ensure a fair civil procedure, the national judicial systems in the union adopt certain procedural rules from one another. legislation harmonising civil procedure at a pan-european level would therefore be a very good alternative on the road to building mutual trust. the introduction of an accelerated european civil procedure would certainly contribute to the efficiency of justice systems. the settlement of trade disputes in the european union is unfortunately very slow. in practice, it takes an average of three to four years to get out of the current pandemic situation. this in turn leads to significant losses for businesses, not only from an economic point of view, but also in terms of time, energy and resources that could otherwise be invested in new opportunities. in this context, i would also like to draw attention to the report by my colleague from the previous mandate, mr tadeusz zwiefka, on 'accelerated settlement of trade disputes'. one of the measures we proposed in that report was a european expedited civil procedure, which would exist alongside and in addition to the european small claims procedure. the idea is to use it in cross-border commercial disputes to which the european small claims procedure does not apply. another principle we have outlined provides that the procedure is to be applied if the parties agree in advance, after the dispute has arisen or if the claimant brings the relevant claim and the defendant accepts it. it is important to clarify that we are talking mainly about a written procedure in a short time frame, which also allows the use of modern technologies for oral hearings, for the collection of evidence and for the service of documents when at least one of the parties so requests. i would also like to highlight another important point: the fees for the procedure must be limited to ensure that the right of access to justice is respected. we are convinced that the legislative proposal on these two important european parliament resolutions will further contribute to the modernisation of crossborder civil proceedings and to the achievement of a level playing field for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. i would therefore like to ask, commissioner, whether the commission intends to make legislative proposals in time for the two legislative reports on parliament's own initiative, so as to help the economic recovery from the current crisis? what other initiatives does the commission intend to take in the area of civil justice to achieve a faster settlement of commercial disputes?
member of the commission. – madam president, it’s my pleasure to be with you today to inform you about the commission’s work towards more efficient and modern civil justice, digitalisation of justice and the role of civil justice in the recovery from the covid-19 crisis. the commission and parliament share the same objective of having efficient, low-cost and modern civil procedures in the european union. the commission has already taken, and will further take, a number of initiatives to speed up civil procedures. to this end, we have taken careful note of parliament’s resolutions on current minimum standards of civil procedure in the european union and on expedited settlement of commercial disputes. there are a number of recently-adopted or upcoming initiatives which serve the aim of parliament’s resolution. eu law already provides for a number of affordable and simple european procedures, such as the european small claims procedure. moreover, better enforcement of existing eu law is key for ensuring fast cross-border civil procedures. the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters provides information and guidance to the member states’ courts and authorities, practitioners and citizens alike. all this is available online via the e-justice portal. the commission’s aim is to promote speedier procedures also at global level, since economic relations go beyond eu borders. this year we intend to put forward a proposal for the eu accession to the 2019 worldwide hague judgments convention. this would provide legal certainty to eu citizens and businesses and help eu companies to settle civil and commercial disputes in the global context. as regards digitalisation of justice, the commission has already taken some steps. for example, in the field of civil justice, two key instruments on digitalisation were adopted in november 2020 – the new service of documents and the taking of evidence regulations. and i should mention the excellent cooperation of parliament on both instruments. however, the current crisis has confirmed the great need for further speeding up of electronic communications and paperless management of both domestic and cross-border judicial cases. this is why the work on digitalisation will continue, as announced in the commission work programme for 2021, with the intention to adopt by the end of this year a legislative proposal on the digitalisation of cross-border judicial cooperation in civil and criminal law matters. this initiative will aim to improve access to justice by allowing citizens and businesses to fill follow up on claims electronically. it will also seek to introduce the use of the digital communication channel between the competent national authorities in both civil and criminal cross-border proceedings. since the onset of the covid-19 crisis, the commission has monitored the measures taken by the member states as a response to the crisis. this monitoring covers both civil procedures in general and insolvency proceedings in particular. all this information has been published on the european e—justice portal and made available to courts, practitioners, citizens and companies. the recent adoption of the restructuring and insolvency directive, which is currently being transposed by the member states, will be of key importance, specifically in the context of the covid-19 crisis and its aftermath. this directive will lead to the introduction of efficient procedures in all member states, allowing the restructuring of companies in financial difficulties, which have a prospect for return to viability without having to undergo insolvency proceedings. it will further enhance the efficiency of restructuring and insolvency proceedings, notably by requiring the availability of electronic means of communications. the commission, through the technical support instrument, stands ready to support member states in a number of areas. such support aims to improve civil justice, enhance the digitalisation of insolvency proceedings and ensure an effective and efficient implementation of the insolvency framework. it also aims to address rising levels of non-performing loans in line with the 2020 commission communication on this matter. the recovery and resilience facility will support concrete reforms and investment in civil justice systems in the context of the recovery and resilience plans of the member states. this includes investments to improve both physical and digital infrastructure, to improve transparency, the collection of data and the secure handling of sensitive data, and to increase efficiency of digital justice services to citizens and business. it also includes capacity-building in public administrations and, of course, the justice sector: reforms to streamline court procedures, reforms of insolvency frameworks and development of alternative dispute mechanisms. so we will continue to work with such a kind of rhythm to try to take into account the resolutions of parliament, of course, but also to take into account the consequence of the covid-19 crisis, and we have seen that there is a real importance to go further with some kind of reform. and certainly i insist on it, because it may be the main issue for us in the recovery and resilience facility: the investment in digitalisation of justice. of course i am pleased to listen to your comments and maybe to see if it’s possible to continue to work at the same rhythm and the same intensity together.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the ongoing pandemic and the efforts needed to facilitate the recovery have once again confirmed that we need more european action. while civil justice is not at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, some coordinated action at the level of civil law could indeed contribute to the long-term recovery and bring about a number of benefits, both to our citizens and to companies in the european union. in the previous legislation, the parliament adopted two important reports in this regard: one on common minimum standards in civil procedure in the eu and the other on the expedited settlement of commercial disputes. for years, the union has been working on common minimum standards in criminal procedure. a set of such provisions already exists in the field of criminal justice cooperation. however, eu citizens, especially those who move across borders, are far more likely to come into contact with the civil procedure system of another member state where there are currently no such minimum standards. such minimum standards facilitate cooperation between competent authorities and the judicial protection of individual rights. increased mutual trust between the member states’ judicial systems could also ultimately contribute to the better functioning of the internal market and to ensuring fundamental rights. the s&d group also supported the need for faster settlement of commercial disputes in order to provide european companies with the possibility to reach a settlement on commercial disputes within a reasonable time frame. we call on the commission to follow up these initiatives from parliament, in particular in view of the post—covid recovery.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said: a swift and effective civil justice is essential to a strong economy and even more so to its recovery after the pandemic's great emergency. unfortunately, the inefficiency of the civil justice system in many eu countries is one of the causes that discourages investment, increases the cost of credit and consequently reduces the cost of labour and the employment rate. we cannot of course allow the funds for recovery to be frozen because of endless legal proceedings. the timely response of the union with the next generation eu, translated into national recovery and resilience plans, risks being lost if we do not look seriously at the issue of civil justice. it is no coincidence that europe has asked many states, including italy, to also initiate reforms of their own justice system. companies ask us for a certain time for litigation and, above all, for a short time to recover commercial debts from their debtors. moreover, if we really want to encourage the development of economic activities in every member state of the union and to give an impetus to intra-community transactions, it is necessary to simplify and harmonize enforcement procedures in different member states and certainly to equip the judicial offices with experts in comparative civil law. the success of the next generation eu's extraordinary resources also depends on the reform of the judicial system.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you all for your interventions about the importance of civil justice for the economic recovery post covid-19. i’ve given an outline of the commission’s ongoing and future work in the field of civil justice and its relevance to the economic recovery. a number of actions have already been taken and the work will continue in the next few years, and the commission has taken careful note of parliament’s two resolutions and shares parliament’s aim of efficient, low-cost and modern civil procedures in the eu. all the work recently done or still underway in this field contributes to the objectives of these resolutions. at the same time, we continue to closely monitor the developments in the member states and we are looking forward to working on this in good cooperation with the european parliament. so thank you very much for your contributions, and again we’ll continue to work together to improve the civil justice and to be more able to go out of the covid-19 crisis with real recovery support by those reforms in the civil justice.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m.)
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 9.15 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8.01 p.m.)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. what do we want to achieve by revising the aarhus regulation? our priorities may differ in detail, but we agree on one point: we want treaty compliance. we want the european union to ensure adequate access to justice in environmental matters. we want the european union to fulfil its obligations under the international aarhus convention, and this report will help us to do so. the report contains important innovations and achievements. at the same time, respect for the eu treaties and the distribution of competences within europe is maintained. national administrative acts are excluded from the scope of the århus regulation. the process is becoming more transparent. there will be a new right to be heard for the companies and authorities concerned by the procedure. there will be a new register for all applications submitted. the costs of the proceedings must not be prohibitive. as you know, the århus regulation regulates the review of administrative acts of the union in environmental matters. the scope of this review procedure is now being extended as requested by the international compliance committee. but with moderation, so that legal certainty is maintained. but, important as it is, we are in a field of tension between different goals. the green deal must be implemented, and fast. that is why we must not let bureaucracy stand in the way of projects which are often sustainable. more administrative verification methods do not always mean more environmentally friendly projects. the best example is state aid: the compliance committee wants to make state aid decisions of a commission subject to challenge on the grounds of possible breaches of environmental law. state aid is not the enemy of sound environmental policy. on the contrary, state aid makes a valuable contribution to the green deal. the commission approves each year state aid for the installation of charging stations for electric vehicles. it authorises subsidies for battery-electric and hybrid buses and for plants generating electricity from renewable energy sources. it authorises subsidies for the construction of energy-efficient thermal power stations using municipal waste as fuel. and the list goes on. but it is not just the green deal that requires government support. state aid helps society, especially in times of pandemics. state aid has saved many family businesses, local businesses and their employees from financial ruin. i would therefore say to you that additional and increasingly complex control measures on state aid are not always of great help in the european union. we have to be careful. excessive bureaucratic checks and formalities can delay, if not prevent, sustainable projects. that is why we cannot grant all citizens of the union the same rights of review. i am therefore pleased that we have found a sensible and practical limitation of the number of eligible applicants. the report states that only citizens of the union who are directly affected by an environmental administrative act can request its review. such direct concern may be, for example, a particular impairment of health resulting from the breach of environmental law. state aid and other projects are thus protected from organised campaigns which can cripple the system. only those who are actually affected by the administrative act may submit a request for review. we ensure that planning and approval procedures are swift and legally secure. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those involved for the fact that we have found a compromise together, a compromise on the rights of access to justice and also a compromise on access to legal certainty.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 may 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european cybersecurity industrial, technological and research competence centre and the network of national coordination centres (05628/2/2021 c9-0152/2021 2018/0328 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr rasmus andresen) (a9-0166/2021).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. (talk begins with the mic off) ... over 42 million cyberattacks were detected against the largest telecommunications providers in the last 24 hours alone. large companies, small businesses next door, public hospitals, the military, municipal utilities, governments, parliaments or us as individuals - all can be victims of cyberattacks. the extent to which we are secure certainly varies widely, but all cyberattacks can cause significant social, economic and security damage. the most prominent example of the last few days is probably the colonial pipeline in the united states, which had to be taken off the grid for several days. but the irish health service and the university hospital in düsseldorf have also been the victims of cyber attacks in recent months. our public infrastructure is vulnerable, and the scale of attacks on our health and energy supplies knows no bounds. german companies alone suffered economic losses of eur 102.9 billion last year as a result of cyberattacks. although 41% of all german companies have been affected by cyberattacks, almost 70% of entrepreneurs still consider the risk of becoming a victim of a cyberattack to be very low. cyber experts say that germany, for example, but also many other member states, are not sufficiently prepared for cyber attacks. there is a lack of a well-coordinated cyber strategy, a lack of public awareness and a lack of clear accountability. it is therefore all the better that the european union has put forward several proposals to combat cyberattacks. the negotiated cybersecurity competence centre is an important building block. we want more european cooperation instead of a national petty government. cybercrime does not stop at national borders, and that is why we should also cooperate more on cybersecurity. as meps, we are firmly convinced that we need more european cooperation and joint projects. we therefore want the centre not just to distribute funds, but to create european added value. we want to pool research activities through the centre of excellence and to support joint projects through the horizon research programme, but also through digital europe. during the negotiations, it was very important to us meps to involve civil society, start-ups, small businesses, but also our cybersecurity agency enisa in the future work of the centre. we need the ideas and expertise of consumer organisations, of the scientific community, but also, for example, of the private sector, and we want and need european innovation. that is why we want to make it easier for start-ups and small businesses to access funding. and we also want to put more emphasis on open source applications, and that's particularly important to me to mention here again: open source is not a security risk, open source and open standards create more security, not less. they reduce dependence on suppliers and promote much-needed innovation. we need better cooperation between national approaches, and we cannot afford any more, especially in the field of security policy, that this is not done sufficiently by the member states. it is therefore good that we have managed to incorporate the instrument of the national centres of competence into the regulation and also to oblige them to cooperate with each other in the european centre of competence. the negotiations with the council have been very difficult at times. the original draft was presented by the european commission in december 2018. there has been little movement across several council presidencies, the major points of contention being funding, the governance structure, but also the tasks of the centre. we then managed to ensure that member states could not vote over the european commission in the negotiations just before christmas. we also wanted to ensure that european programmes are managed and decided in a european manner. the outcome of our negotiations is in evidence, and i now wish the european commission in particular every success in establishing the cybersecurity competence centre in bucharest. i would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues from the committee on industry, the shadow rapporteurs, the committee secretariat, the european commission, and also the german presidency of the council for the fact that we were able to reach a fair compromise just before christmas, but also, for example, the croatian presidency of the council, which managed to break the deadlock in the council after several unsuccessful attempts. it was certainly not easy, and that is something to be mentioned again here. and last but not least, i would like to thank all the members of the group of the european people's party who have made it possible for us to concentrate on the major points of contention in the political negotiations, because the technical meetings have already clarified many, many proposals, and we are very pleased about that. i should also like to thank mrs julia reda, who is no longer with us in this parliamentary term but who, with her report in the previous parliamentary term, gave the impetus to parliamentary work. i am pleased to see the strong support already in the industry committee and i am sure that the centre's work will be very successful.
the commission has already done so. i welcome this initiative, and we only have to look at the recent cyberattack in the united states to see the horrifying impact on industry and consumers, or the attack on the irish health authority, or recently on a well-known german food retailer. a coordinated response to cyber threats is long overdue. i have two comments: firstly, i would like to note that the first discussions with stakeholders took place in 2017. four years later, we're putting this bill on the road. in a fast-moving, ever-evolving industry, these time frames are not conducive to success. secondly, i think that the attack on the us it service provider solarwinds also needs to be investigated in detail. the attack was discovered by the private security company fireeye, which was under no obligation to report the attack to the us government. and we also need to be clearer about our definition of intrusion. finally, it is crucial to distinguish more clearly in future between what constitutes a genuine hostile attitude and what does not.
the debate is closed. i would like to inform you that no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled and no amendments have been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the csf. the council's position is therefore approved and the proposed legislative act is therefore adopted.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'fiscalis' programme of tax cooperation and repealing regulation (eu) no 1286/2013 (06116/1/2021 c9-0179/2021 2018/0233 ((cod)) (rapporteur: sven giegold) (a9-0167/2021).
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. fiscalis is designed to improve cooperation between national tax administrations, exchange expertise and combat tax evasion and avoidance. the commission has already approved eur 270 million, which will be paid out in several instalments. but fiscalis is fighting - if at all - tax crime by the upper middle class through more citizen surveillance. the astronomical expenditure on migration and climate protection cannot be financed with a few tens of billions of euros a year. our problems are different. firstly, multinational companies arbitrarily shift profits via licences to low-tax countries and are effectively tax-exempt like the first and second estates under the ancien régime. amazon, facebook, apple and google pay less than one percent in taxes on their profits in the eu. but nobody wants to change that, partly because the eu is de-classified in high-technology competition and steadfastly avoids joint ventures with russia or china in order to remain a us plaything. secondly, instead of companies, citizens are asked to pay, germany's tax rate is the highest in the world, the eurozone's is still higher than that of the eu, which is higher than that of the oecd. third, the eu's insane immigration and climate policies will cost trillions over the next decades that our citizens could never afford. finally, put an end to this disastrous monetary and spending policy, as if this continent had no future anyway, and encourage member states to introduce fairer and more progressive corporate taxation, to reduce the wage tax rate, and put an end to citizen surveillance and the free movement of eu capital, which undermines any fair tax policy!
the debate is closed. i would like to inform you that no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled and no amendments have been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the csf. the council's position is therefore approved and the proposed legislative act is therefore adopted.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we often discuss europe's role in the world here, and this commission has even made it its mission to be a geopolitical commission. we will not live up to this claim if we are not able to protect the fundamental rights of eu citizens everywhere and enforce our own rules here in europe in the digital world. safe harbour, privacy shield both agreements have been overturned by the european court of justice. the us safety laws on the one hand and the charter of fundamental rights on the other are like two trains racing against each other they are not compatible. the crucial question at this point is who will bow down? will it end up being europe again? i want to make it quite clear that we are not going to change the charter of fundamental rights, and the judgments of the european court of justice are absolutely clear. we need legislative changes on the us side in their security laws or an eu/us no-spy agreement. it's clear that we need this. the time is right for that. we're seeing that even trump now has concerns about tiktok, that chinese security agencies are accessing data. the concern is legitimate, but the concern that we're seeing with tiktok -- we've seen that since snowden -- is certainly for u.s. providers. that is why we must be clear here, including to china: we need the eu as a partner. we must fight for privacy and data protection together with the us. now some people are saying: we must now also make the uk an adequate partner as soon as possible, we need the agreement there, the economy needs it. the worst thing for the economy, frankly, is legal uncertainty. the worst part is that you have twice accused the economy of being too sensitive to new agreements, of having adapted their processes to suit them, and then they were not compatible with eu law, and then the european court of justice overturned that. this can't happen again! i would also like to say this very clearly to the commission: if you were to make your claim clearer, less about the european parliament, less about the european data protection board and more about our international partners, then you would be more true to your role as a genuine geopolitical commission.
mr president, personal data is the global currency of our times. gathering as much as possible makes companies powerful and wealthy. on the other hand, if your personal data is in the hands of someone, you tend to risk becoming an object, not only of advertisement, but of manipulation. this is why the european union takes pride in its achievements made concerning the protection of personal data. the eu has turned out to be a role model in the world, and we are not willing to allow new loopholes. and we have plenty of reasons for this. let me just mention three. the uk grants wide-ranging data protection exemptions in the area of national security and immigration, which now also apply to eu citizens who wish to stay or settle in the uk. current uk legislation allows mass data access without suspicion of a crime and mass data retention, which the ecj has found to be incompatible with the rights enshrined in the gdpr; and the uk’s agreements with the us open up the possibility of eu citizens’ data being shared with the usa. it has been mentioned several times today. we therefore urge the commission and the uk authorities to address the issues highlighted in the resolution. no adequacy decisions should be taken without a clear plan on how to address the problems.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. roma and sinti have been with me all my life. for some thirty years i have been involved in charitable work for children in romania. i remember in particular the ten roma families on the arad rubbish heap. our charity wanted to build them apartments. unfortunately, this failed at the city administration. most recently, i was involved in promoting and integrating roma in the danube countries as part of the danube area strategy. unfortunately, i also remember the many roma, especially young roma, who are begging in our cities and whose sight always stings me in the heart. i have often met the same children in the pedestrian areas of freiburg, frankfurt, mannheim, stuttgart and, if i am not mistaken, i have seen them here in brussels. these kids belong in school. they beg for money for their clans, who then build themselves magnificent houses in hungary and romania. i've seen these palaces with my own eyes. what can we do? first of all, these people deserve our respect, not our pity. they need equal opportunity, not our money. and the roma must also be ready to integrate into european society - if they do not want to, then everything is useless. only then can we succeed in equipping the roma to participate on an equal footing in all areas. there's a lot to do, let's get to it!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the pandemic affects all of us, but it doesn't affect all of us equally. hundreds of thousands of roma have been under extreme pressure and even greater risks in recent weeks and months. in several european countries, there have been racist attacks, disproportionate measures, such as the complete closure of certain neighbourhoods or villages in which roma are the majority. why the lack of access to clean water, food, medical care in the middle of a pandemic is fatal, i don't think i need to explain here. but even before the pandemic, the pressure to act was already great. many roma experience structural racism, discrimination on a daily basis in employment, education, housing and, not least, in the health system. roma throughout europe have a right to health, education and political participation. there must be legally binding consequences for member states' failure to implement objectives. the commission must be more strategic in this area. anti-gypsyism has no place in europe!
author. – madam president, war is ugly and unjust. thousands of killed soldiers from armenia and azerbaijan and many more displaced civilians – that is the price of what president aliyev calls an unprecedented victory. mr president aliyev, nothing suits a true winner more than humility to extend a helping hand to its defeated enemy, not only because it is morally correct but also it is strategically wise. true winners know that dehumanising the enemy in trophy parks and crossing the border only extends the vicious circles of violence. true winners know that indoctrinating your children with hate only maintains war and that short—sighted revanche will never lead into solid peace. and they also know that unjust done to displace azeris can never justify similar unjust against armenians. so, true winners know that every human life counts, no matter of which ethnicity. president aliyev, there was once a long—standing friendship between armenians and azeris, so you have a chance now to be a true winner, embrace your defeated enemy and turn them into loyal friends again, because if nagorno—karabakh is azerbaijani – and it is – you are responsible for all the well—being of all of its inhabitants.
the commission has already done so. on 19 march, human rights watch reported on the mistreatment of armenian prisoners of war by azerbaijani authorities. human rights watch also pointed to azerbaijan's failure to follow the agreements contained in the peace treaty and to the fact that the armenians still in captivity are being labeled as terror suspects. the european court of human rights has pointed out that azerbaijan is unfortunately not complying with its international obligations. i am firmly convinced that it is up to this house to consider now what measures are necessary to resolve such incidents quickly and consistently in the future. a state which so blatantly violates international agreements and so frivolously commits human rights violations is going to the sidelines. president aliyev can now show that he is a statesman, a real statesman, a statesman who will immediately release the armenian prisoners of war and those prisoners who are designated as terrorists.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 20 may 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in haiti (2021/2694 (rsp)) *. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 20 may 2021.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in chad (2021/2695 (rsp)). the president of the commission
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, chad is an important partner for the european union in the fight against terrorism, as has already been said by several colleagues. it should also be mentioned that chad has suffered a lot since 2015 from attacks and activities of boko haram. this resolution is not meant to point the finger at anyone; it is meant to show the way, because after the death of president idriss déby, the situation has become unstable. i am convinced that it is not weapons that will solve the current problems in chadian society, but dialogue, ladies and gentlemen. in this sense, it is an encouraging sign that a transitional government has been appointed with the participation of members of the opposition and civil society. i am convinced that only a democratic path can be a stable future for the chadian people. chad must remain an important partner for the european union. we call on the international community to support chad on its path towards democracy and stability for the region.
author. madam president, when president idriss déby died, the army took power and imposed his son as head of state: a dynastic succession in a country that, ironically, is a republic. and what is europe's response? well, mr borrell went to chad to recall déby's important role in favour of stability and to call for a swift conclusion of the transition. what you call transition, we call coup d'état, and what you call stability, we call dictatorship, and that is why we call for the restoration of constitutional order, the transfer of political power to civilian authorities, the holding of elections and the cessation of repression, and in the meantime the suspension of european funding and cooperation, because the condemnation of a coup d'état cannot depend on whether or not the country is our political and commercial ally, much less whether these are due to colonial and geostrategic interests for europe.
the recent death of the president of chad, whom i regret, the replacement of his son at the head of the transitional military council, the suspension of the constitution, the ban on demonstrations and the death of at least six people at the end of april are all causes of great concern in this region of the sael. chad plays a very important role in the stability of the sahel, where the displaced number in the thousands and humanitarian crises, hunger, food insecurity and lack of economic activity are endemic problems. to this dark picture is added the action of boko haram, al-qaeda and other terrorist groups which destabilise the prospects for growth and development in the country and the region. i therefore call on the chadian authorities, together with the international community, the european union and the african union, to continue their efforts to ensure a democratic transition by calling for fair and transparent legislative and provincial elections as a matter of urgency, in accordance with the constitution, minimum electoral standards, and to ensure the participation of opposition parties and the involvement of civil society in the future electoral process.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president, i would like to thank you. chad is one of the most corrupt and poorest countries in the world. after the death of the president of chad in a rebel battle, the army has taken over de facto, suspended the constitution, dissolved the government and parliament, and the promises of elections are vague and uncertain. the opposition protests were bloody suppressed. chad is a key pillar in the fight against terrorism in the sahel region, a valuable ally of the union and the un. the region is volatile, constantly threatened by islamic terrorism, organized crime, and famine. we are faced with the question of whether to maintain good relations at all costs or to demand first the restoration of democratic order? in other words, stability or democracy? but we know now that without democracy, stability cannot be maintained. the lack of a democratic mandate for the ruling class is the perfect breeding ground for armed terrorist groups to exploit public discontent. in giving advice and recommendations to chad - as in dealing with other african countries - we need to renew the approach and rhetoric that have been used so far, which is still steeped in a colonial mentality, the belief that we europeans know better what africa needs and how to make africans happy.
madam president, the killing of president déby, allegedly at the hands of rebels in the north of the country, will have undeniable regional repercussions. this act of violence and the recent further loss of life in attacks by armed groups in the region needs to be strongly and collectively condemned by this house. i join colleagues in concern over the volatile security situation in the north of the country, but we must also send a strong signal that the repeated breaches of human rights and humanitarian law is not acceptable, and the international community needs to make this clear. corruption, political exclusion, growing disparity and repression of dissent were trademarks of president déby’s rule in chad. however, unless these grievances are addressed, chad’s instability can be expected to persist, particularly as it has regional repercussions, given chad’s strategic location. violence and intimidation cannot produce an inclusive and fair society, and we should make our voices loud and clear in reiterating this as many times as necessary.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! on april 20, the president of chad was killed in a clash with rebels. under his leadership, the country has played a major role in ensuring security and stability in the region, engaging in anti-jihadist operations and fighting extremist forces. so it can be said that chad's political stability is also important for the whole region. chad is definitely looking forward to change, and when it happens, it will be a test case that will shape the country for years to come. it is now imperative that free and fair presidential elections be held as soon as possible. both the organisation of the elections and any activities in the run-up to them should be conducted in accordance with the law and constitutional order. moreover, freedom of expression and human rights should always be respected and there should be no arrests or use of force against citizens peacefully protesting. the european union should support the efforts of the african union to stabilise the situation in the country.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, as many of you have said and as your resolution also points out – and it’s important to underline – chad plays an important role in the fight against terrorism within the g5 sahel group, and we need to preserve the territorial integrity and the stability of chad in the fragile security context of the region. the region is the sahel region and the sahel remains very high on the european agenda. it’s one of the regions of the world where the union and its member states are most committed to peace, stability and development. between 2014 and 2020 we have provided eur 8.5 billion in development and humanitarian aid, security and defence. this is why the european union decided to adopt a renewed sahel strategy mid-april, and why i chose this moment to make my first visit to the region from 22 to 24 april. i took this opportunity to convey a clear message to all the leaders of the region, that the european union is engaged to support them in the essential fight against terrorism that is paramount for all of us, but our collective commitment needs to bear fruit, needs to deliver, and that’s why we are engaging, with more than 1 000 people in our military and civilian csdp missions in mali, in niger, and also the eu training mission in mali that now is going to expand its activities to other countries in the region. and that’s why also some member states with others are participating in this effort, for example with the anti-terrorist task force takuba. however, and many of you have also said that even if with not the same words, that we will not collectively succeed in the fight if we don’t win the peace, while we intend to win the war we will not win the war without winning the peace. this is the sense of the ‘civilian surge’ decided at the n’djamena summit last february and i want to stress the importance of this commitment. it’s not only a matter of war, it’s a matter of good governance and deploying the capacities of the governments of the territory in order to provide basic public goods to the population. as i said, after the approval of our strategy for the region, and when i was visiting sahel, the death of president déby of chad occurred on 20 april. so, being in the region, i decided to visit chad not only to attend the funeral, but also, as i said in my speech at the very same funeral, that we had to take this opportunity to convey a message to the chadian authorities and to the african leaders who were present at the ceremony. first, to recognise the contribution of chad in the fight against terrorism, and this contribution is essential, as i said at the beginning, so much it is the chad stability. indeed president déby’s death was quickly followed by a military takeover, by the military junta, and the situation remains evolving rapidly and future developments are difficult to predict. just before coming here i been having a meeting with the president of niger. he visited here in brussels. i had the opportunity to exchange with him views about this situation and learn from him, what can be the prospects. for us europeans and for all countries in the region, this is a major source of concern because the effective and necessary involvement of chadian troops in the g5 joint forces in the fight against terrorism in lake chad. but, as i clearly stated during my eulogy, my intervention in the funeral, while the stability of chad remains paramount we need a genuine inclusive dialogue as a necessary step towards a renewed social contract in chad too. i also declared there, and reiterated in my latest statement, the importance of a swift return to constitutional order and that the political transition must be civilian led. it was good news that the military junta decided some days after to nominate a civilian as prime minister. this transition has to be limited in time and peaceful. unhappily, there have been events with regrettable casualties among civilians that do not follow this peaceful requirement. they should respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and lead to credible elections. the military authorities nominated a government which includes some opposition representatives. they indicated their will to engage in an inclusive dialogue and, as i said, they nominated a civilian prime minister. still, demonstrations against the military junta were put down by force and there are reports of civil society organisations and political opponents being harassed by the state security services. we, the european union, have strongly condemned this repression of demonstrations in chad and we are talking to all the stakeholders, including representatives of the opposition and of civil society to convey our key messages and to listen to their concerns. let me finally stress that a close cooperation with the united nations and the african union remains important. the latter had a mission in chad to evaluate the situation and the african union peace and security council is expected to come with recommendations for the transition. certainly, dear members, this is a difficult moment in chad’s history, but it is also a potential threat for our strategy to fight terrorism in the region, but it is also an opportunity, as we say here in europe these days, to build back better, to build a new social contract in chad, that should serve to meet the numerous aspirations of the population, and to address the root causes of instability of the country, including certainly lack of democratisation, lack of good governance and fully respect of human rights. we will be ready to accompany chad in that direction, but we need to see a clear commitment by the authorities to go along that path and i am going to use this opportunity here on the tribune of the european parliament to reiterate this message.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 20 may 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the death of president idriss deby itno, who made the supreme sacrifice in the face of the terrorists of the front for alternation and concord in chad, reminds us of the value of the chadian army, which it also demonstrated in the fight against islamist terrorism, alongside france and within the g5 sahel. in particular, the disappearance of about 100 chadian soldiers in the face of boko haram in march 2020. the eu has also been involved in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against terrorism. it is in the interest of the european union and the member states to take note of the transition proposed by the military council, so as not to see this country collapse, undoing years of french and western investment in the fight against terrorism. the key issue is not only the stability of the sahel, but also the control of migration flows to the european union. this is all the more true at a time when member states are reluctant to support the french military effort in the sahel, particularly with regard to the deployment of troops. thank you.
(parliament adopted the resolution)
rapporteur. – madam president, following the vote that has taken place on the aarhus regulation here today, i would like to request that the matter be referred back to the committee responsible for institutional negotiations pursuant to rule 59.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too want to break a lance for the farmers, as did my predecessor just now. i too am the son of a farmer and grew up on a farm. and my mother told me that when i was a little girl, i would sit under the cows and under the horse and i would feed the cows the wool things that i had -- my wool hat and my fists. how that affected the milk, i can't tell you, my mother didn't tell me that. it certainly wasn't good. i also love agriculture and i think we all know that we need farmers - as the honourable member said - and that we must do everything we can to save farmers here from such great damage or to help them in doing so. but we have a big problem here: our farmers are trapped in a system, they are in a straitjacket by the big agricultural system we have built, and they can hardly move. they have a lot of rules and regulations and things like that. risk management systems are certainly good, but they put another net over our farmers. and they're getting more stripped, more pressed, more pressed into a straitjacket. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot stand by and watch this happen. we need to put this system back on its feet, from the top down. so much has gone wrong. and if we really want to help our farmers, we should look closely. the colleague said that if 80% of farmers are small and 20% are very large, then it makes little sense for us to support that 20%. we must ensure that we support the 80% who are now particularly affected, including by this frost and by this disaster which has happened this spring. of course we want to support free competition, and i personally do, but we must be very clear: if we do not help these farmers who are trapped in this system now, they will perish! we're going to lose her! and that cannot be, and that cannot be. i would therefore also like to appeal to you, commissioner, to do everything possible to ensure that the security reserves we have, the funds, are released. and regardless of all the other things, we have to help now, or it's too late.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, let's use the coronavirus and climate crisis as an opportunity...
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not let's use the coronavirus and climate crisis as an opportunity to make a difference. smes are the backbone of the economy and smes need to be given the best possible support in europe to be resilient, competitive and sustainable. the green deal is a business-by-business programme, and the 'fit for 55' package is fuelling the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in their transformation. the renewable energy directive can facilitate access to renewable energy for smes, stimulate demand in the internal market and create new local green jobs through investment. the commission has not found any evidence that the exporting producers concerned have been able to obtain sufficient evidence to justify the imposition of measures. in the field of energy efficiency, smes in the construction and energy renovation sectors are particularly affected and will experience a real boom. we need green hubs as consulting services for transformation and implementation of sustainable business models. we need specialised sme advisers and offers. and i want to make this very clear: the reduction of complicated, unnecessary regulations for smes is important, but the 'one in, one out' principle is a blind alley, a mechanical flat rate is certainly not a good way. first, we need to find out what rules and regulations are a problem for businesses, why they are a problem, and from that, what we can do better. because less regulation is usually not enough to boost growth or create jobs, because to cancel instead of to evaluate is certainly not a wise approach. and secondly, regulations that make the eu greener and more sustainable are not a burden, but a design tool, a positive incentive, innovation, planning certainty and a job engine for companies, and that is what the future is all about. we are making the most of the coronavirus and climate crisis to empower smes and start-ups in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe that is the smes. smes, that is europe with its jobs, its training places, its innovative power, its entrepreneurial spirit an entrepreneurial spirit that does not ask for subsidies but for perspectives , companies that are often established as hidden champions worldwide, at the same time rooted regionally, that take social responsibility for employees, for the offspring of their home country. this medium-sized enterprise was hit particularly hard by the crisis and no ministers came by with large cheques. but it is only with these smes, with their virtues and their willingness to work, that europe can emerge from the crisis stronger, more modern and more sustainable than before. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help smes and their employees. investment in infrastructure and education, planning certainty, scope for action. what a craftsman, a tradesman, a freelancer cannot do, should not be decided. and more than that, we need to cut red tape. i'm not getting one in, one out! that's the status quo. we need "one in, two out" to reduce the burden. we should listen to our smes, and then we will be able to manage the digital and green transformation without social disruption.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is remarkable that we are discussing a report and the rapporteur has not had the opportunity to present it himself. maybe that's another sign that this report is going in the wrong direction. competition law is designed to create prosperity for all by creating a level playing field. and the belief that by softening the rigid rules of competition law and by more government intervention, wealth can be created is a delusion. socialism always sounds good, but it is usually bad, and we cannot therefore derive any good from this report. maybe it's a good thing the reporter couldn't introduce him. the first point is that this report calls for the transitional periods which we have introduced because of the pandemic and which lead to relaxations of the competition regime to be extended. this means that we will not be returning to competition law as we had before the pandemic. we think that's wrong. exceptions are exceptions because they respond to certain situations but do not last. we need strict, correct competition law and we do not need exceptions to pay out more aid and thus accumulate further budget deficits. the second thing we criticise is the demand for alignment of eu competition policy with the paris climate goals. this has the effect of excluding a very large sector of the economy from the competition rules. the fact that we are now turning everything into a climate issue means that we must make further restrictions on our competition law and that the door to growth is wide open. the report also calls for the abolition of patents for medical research. the council has already spoken against this, and we have just heard the example of biotech in the discussion on small and mediumsized enterprises. there would be no biontech if that recommendation were implemented. we need patent protection to make progress. and that is why we reject the report, because it is going in the wrong direction in every respect. the opposite of good is good. we need competition. competition creates innovation and jobs. and we don't need exceptions to fair competition.
mr president, one of the main drivers of the alarming decline in biodiversity is without question the problem of deforestation and the decline of healthy forests, not only in tropical regions, but also in europe. i’m not telling you any secrets when i say that our forests are the best allies we have to tackle both the biodiversity and the climate crisis. also our common goals, which were defined to bring nature back into our lives and to fulfil the eu green deal, are in many ways dependent on the vitality of our forests. if it’s not possible to reconcile the many demands on forests and wood products with a real sustainable way, close to nature, of managing our forests, the eu will literally be sawing off the branch we are sitting on. therefore, it is indispensable, on the one hand, that we strictly protect our remaining old growth in primary forests and, on the other hand, that we prohibit destructive practices such as clearcutting in managed forests. clearcutting is proven to have a disastrous impact on biodiversity and on the carbon storage abilities of forests so we have to relearn to co—create with nature and not against nature, and we need appropriate legislation. finally, i want to thank the european commission for the clear, ambitious strategy we have and to thank the rapporteur. we, as greens, want to send a strong signal to support the vote tomorrow as it is.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this is the golden pipe. you haven't seen him yet? that's because it's becoming increasingly rare. this is not a coincidence. this is man-made extinction. the golden plover is suffering from the loss of its natural habitat: moors that are being drained for settlement, for agricultural use. but it's not the only one that's in trouble: 63% of species, 81% of ecosystems are in a poor state of conservation. the good news is that we can change that, protect more land, even restore damaged ecosystems -- all with more legal commitment. and when eu nature protection law is not implemented, we must take a harder line. we need to make forests climate resilient, and agriculture needs to do its part. it's all in the envi report. tomorrow, you will agree to it, so that the golden piper and future generations can rejoice!
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). we are undermining the very foundations of all life on earth. fisheries and agriculture, and in particular the livestock industry, are the main drivers of biodiversity loss. a real revolution towards a sustainable food system is therefore urgently needed. healthy food is plant-based, local, non-toxic and with respect for animals, nature and the environment. that should be the aim of this biodiversity strategy and also of the farm to fork strategy. we must also avoid that the energy transition, which is so necessary to stop the climate crisis, actually exacerbates the biodiversity crisis. trees belong in the forest and not in power stations, but we have had good goals for 15 years and still every day plants and animals are dying out. it is time for legislation. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the forest is a habitat for many animals, plant species; yes, he's a community recreation room, and he's a resource provider. i would therefore like to focus on the multifunctionality of european forests in the biodiversity strategy. our forests are ecosystems rich in species and economic forests at the same time. management does not exclude the protection and promotion of biodiversity, quite the contrary. we need a more natural forest management than ever. right now, our forests are weakened by droughts and pest infestations. so we need to get the pests out of the forest to protect our healthy trees. and it's right and important that we set ourselves ambitious goals; but they also have to be realistically achievable, scientifically sound, predictable, and not just gut-wrenching. with the biodiversity strategy we need to find a way in which nature and species conservation go hand in hand with land use, whether in forestry or agriculture for species conservation and food security in europe. we need education, not a one-sided condemnation of certain farming and food systems. we need the biodiversity. it is the basis for our food, fertile soil and clean water. we can do this by increasing cooperation rather than increasing prohibition.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. biodiversity is the web that holds us. it is only through biodiversity that we will have the basic necessities of life - clean air, clean water, fertile soil. we in europe condemn the hunting of the last tigers in india or the destruction of the rainforest in brazil, but we ignore that many ecosystems have been destroyed or are at risk in our own country. this is particularly true of our moors and wetlands, which have been drained or destroyed for peat extraction over centuries. and the moors are our allies in conservation, in climate change, and in climate adaptation. i therefore ask you, dear virginijus, in your capacity as environment commissioner, to develop a comprehensive moor strategy to effectively protect and restore these important ecosystems. in your home country of lithuania, the baisogala moor is being renatured. we need projects like this throughout the eu, and for that we need our own targets for moore in the regeneration plan.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, some people may think that customs policy is boring or not relevant for their lives, but the contrary is true. the internal market can only keep up its high product standards and the trust the consumers place in those with a strong customs control regime. the eu imports hundreds of thousands of products every day and the custom controls guarantee that the eu’s high food hygiene or safety standards are not undermined. that is why it is good that we found an agreement on the customs control equipment, because customs need to be adequately funded and equipped. for the future of the eu customs policy, i find the following points crucial. first, we need to tackle new challenges and we have to take them into account – like, for example, more e—commerce, where sometimes product standards are undermined. second, we need better coordination between market surveillance authorities and to enhance their role as additional action. and third, we need to adapt now to upcoming legislation, like mandatory due diligence or deforestation, free supply chains, and make sure that customs authorities are well equipped to enforce that.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not how proud this house is of the eu treaties, on whose foundation membership of the union is based - the four fundamental freedoms: free movement of goods, free movement of payments, freedom to provide services and free movement of persons. but instead of thinking of intelligent, contemporary solutions in special sessions, they preferred to close parliament in the greatest crisis of the post-war period, and in principle demonstrated the usefulness of this parliament - in fact, it did not. in order to counter the crisis, however, they acted with frantic actionism. suddenly, borders were closed, service and trade businesses were closed, sports studio operators, artists, entertainers and many others were banned from working. even here in the house, you couldn't pay with euro banknotes. and this despite the fact that the scientific service stated that banknotes cannot transmit germs or viruses. and last but not least, the free movement of persons has been severely restricted. but thank god there is a commission which is doing everything it can to restore the freedoms of the citizens. because they are actually talking about freedoms now - freedom in the plural. in a liberal democracy, however, the citizen enjoys freedom without if and but. but when you talk about freedoms, you're suggesting that freedom is divisible and therefore can be granted or not granted by the state in parts. the first step in this direction is to be taken with the green certificate, or in other words, we are now taking the path of fundamental rights certificates. and once one of these paths is taken, others will follow. the digital vaccination passport does not even guarantee that you can actually live as a free citizen again after the second vaccination. it is a vaccine fabo: a vaccine fabo for the administration of a vaccine which has been whipped through the approval process, for the administration of a vaccine which has never been tested on humans. we therefore say no to this digital green certificate. there can be no forced vaccination through the back door. the introduction of a digital vaccination card is the entrance to a society where the citizen, if he is good, can earn basic rights like a treat.
mr president, the european union and the governments - starting with the greek government with the eu digital covid certificate - are in practice certifying that these basic measures to protect against the coronavirus are also being relaxed. they claim that they are responsible for leaving the populations exposed to the pandemic and the vast majority of them unvaccinated. they pretend that there is no truth to their troubling question, that there is no scientific answer to the question of whether the necessary vaccination can effectively prevent the transmission of the virus, while new mutations are being recorded. they state that their criterion is to facilitate business groups, states and governments to get rid of costs and burdens, because this is how they perceive free repeat tests and any protection from the pandemic. the same principle has left public health systems unprotected, leaving clinicians to hoard money and the public to pay dearly on the basis of individual responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need, and that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need.
mr president, commissioner, the european union has complied and, in record time, has been able to develop a certificate which, while not perfect, can gradually restore some normality to the schengen area. this parliament has fought so that no one is left behind and, in particular, so that negative tests can be made available to everyone, which is not entirely guaranteed. but it is not enough to approve measures and then not implement them. at the moment, there are seven countries that are ready to receive the digital green certificate. there are even some that already have their airports ready and even have passengers using them. the question now is: what information are member states giving their citizens on how they can use the european digital covid-19 certificate? what do you need to do to be able to put your vaccination, your natural immunity, maybe even your negative tests on this app or on this document? there are hundreds of millions of european citizens who are still without information and if europe has complied, it is time for the member states to comply.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this regulation on european covid certificates is actually a false good idea because it does not solve much. it creates a false sense of security and opens up new risks in terms of traceability and protection of personal data. despite the efforts and vigilance of the european parliament, this text, which still preserves the freedom of manoeuvre of the member states and agrees to make the tests payable, confirms fears of economic and health discrimination and establishes a two-speed system. on the one hand, the privileged tested or vaccinated who will believe themselves to be immune to the virus and its variants, and on the other hand, the families who will not be able to afford to get tested, who cannot be vaccinated or who refuse to see their precious health data leaked into databases that turn out to be real sieves. finally, we see it in france: the first independent stress tests done on the application tousanticovid show that the verification of digital certificates does not respect the data minimisation and the confidentiality of data guaranteed by the european regulation. what's the big deal? and then nothing. we will allow it, because the regulations on certificates do not provide for any sanctions in the event of deviations, abuses or deviations. so for now, i'm going to vote against it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the beginning of the decline in the covid epidemic in europe, we are regaining a certain amount of freedom, including the freedom to travel. our travel, which has been managed until now in the dogma of the free movement of people, has been in a total obsession with borderlessness, the same obsession that has delayed the only effective parade found in countries that have already returned to normal life. and it is in the same denial of the usefulness of borders that the eu is trying to impose this digital passport. we believe that the latter is still inadequate in the face of health and digital issues. the three criteria for obtaining it are still imperfect: with an uncertainty rate of 20%, nothing has reassured us for two months. in the face of the new variant, whose rapid spread requires that we do not put in place a permanent passport-like document, it would be irresponsible. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the countries of central and eastern europe. thus, this pseudo-passport will exclude, among others, all those who have not been vaccinated in time. it's not fair. finally, inadequate in terms of our digital security. the eu is weak in cybersecurity. its agency enisa is far below the performance of the current global risk. cyberattacks on biotech are a daily occurrence. i'm not being naive. so the member states know what they have to do: at european level, let us reject this demagogic digital certificate. let's keep our good old international vaccination certificate, so effective until today to be able to travel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let's not get too excited about this, but the adoption of the eu digital covid certificate is not the end of the road. there is still not enough scientific data to assess the real impact of the relaxation of the freedom of movement of vaccinated persons. it's a gamble, and since we're taking it, i ask, why half again? what is the point of harmonization if we ourselves underline it by not actually guaranteeing anything to the certificate holder and the member states can do whatever they want with it? we should accept that traveling is simply not going to be normal for some time. and unless we get more data, it should be based on massive testing in the first place. that's why i'm extremely sorry that our call for free pcr testing in all european union countries didn't pass. a hundred million won't help! can you figure out how many tests you're gonna take for this? it's just a slap in the face. i'm sorry because the whole eu digital covid certificate is such a piece of shit. some of us can afford it, and some of us can stay home.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european digital certificate will increase safe mobility within the european union, support the horeca tourism and industry, so much tried in this period, and encourage vaccination, as we see the negative effects of fake news and anti-vaccine campaigns. following the political agreement between the european parliament and the council on the regulation governing the digital covid certificate, the commission has already made the technical backbone - eu gate - available to the union. i would like to stress that it is very important that in the coming weeks all member states fully complete their national systems for issuing, storing and verifying certificates so that the european system will be operational as from 1 july. moreover, citizens need to be continuously assured that their personal data are not changed or stored during this process, with gate eu only verifying the authenticity of certificates by verifying the digital signatures contained in qr codes, without processing personal data, which remain stored on servers, at national level. member states should also refrain from introducing further restrictions in the following period, without a very strong justification and only in exceptional and time-limited cases. the european economy needs european citizens to travel again and these certificates are a crucial step to make sure that this happens safely.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for every arm vaccinated, we're seeing more and more light at the end of the tunnel right now. with the eu's digital covid certificate, we can travel within the eu more easily as early as july. the very purpose is to ease the travel restrictions of the member states. it is important to point out that even those who have not been vaccinated should be able to travel with a negative test or if they have recently recovered. no one should be excluded by expensive tests. this was a major priority for the socialist group in the negotiations with the member states. i therefore welcome the european commission's decision to release one billion euros to make testing available and not too expensive. this is gonna be good for our border patrol. it will be good for families who need to travel across borders and it will also be good for the one who is finally going to have a well-deserved holiday.
mr president, commissioner, that is very good. bravo, we have a ticket to freedom, exactly what people expect from brussels. and i appreciate that we were able to agree on the eu digital covid certificate in such a short time. but i would appeal to member states to be creative in creating additional restrictions. the eu covid digital certificate only makes sense if it is sufficient proof for crossing borders and proof for everyone. the tests for obtaining a digital certificate should be free of charge. that's the only way the system will be fair. as we look back on a year and a half of the pandemic, the eu digital covid certificate can be a beautiful example of how the european union can act quickly and correctly. so, please, let's not screw this up.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised. unnecessary, because member states will have different rules for admitting or not admitting travellers based on their own discretion. and that's their right. portugal, for example, with its agreement with the united kingdom, shows that countries can very well make their own arrangements without the intervention of the eu. but the coronavirus pass is also outdated, because once the big it problems are solved, the vaccination rate is already so high that a coronavirus pass is no longer needed at all. in the netherlands alone, 1.8 million vaccinations are not registered. other countries have similar problems. the commission's failed vaccine purchase, mr president, showed that the eu is not the savior in need it thinks it is, and the coronavirus passport is not going to change that.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, my fellow members of the house of representatives. while an eu certificate would help to overcome the restrictions, the only real solution to the epidemic is mass vaccination. in hungary, the government has achieved a vaccination rate of over 53 percent through a wide-ranging information campaign and the use of several western and eastern vaccines. this is the real solution to the epidemic. the other member states of the union should also give priority to the vaccination campaign. the agreement at issue here is welcome in that it leaves the member states the right to take special measures to protect health in the event of a health emergency. the experience of the past year and a half shows that national governments have been able to respond quickly and effectively. that right must be protected. however, it is not right to choose between vaccinations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover all vaccines, including those that are not already approved by the member states. the union's fundamental objective is free movement, and this must be re-guaranteed for those who are immune to the virus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. until last year, the schengen area was the place to be, free travel was seen as more of a quiet everyday hero. not flashy, not loud, but always there. this has changed fundamentally with the experience of the last few months. we have had to learn that freedom of movement is not a given, that the schengen area needs our political will and commitment to survive. we have demonstrated this will and capacity with the eu digital covid certificate. the eu is capable of decisive action and effective results, even in the face of major challenges in tough negotiations, but it is also capable of agreement. the digital certificate is an essential building block on the way to summertime freshness, a milestone for the restored mobility of workers, citizens and businesses. the eu has delivered, and now we need the same ambitious implementation in the member states - politically and above all technically. and because the ministers of the interior are saying: schengen is more than a flagship project, it is more than just freedom of movement, it does not only concern border commuters. it is the essence of european integration. it means getting closer together, building trust, looking beyond the box. it is time, mr minister of the interior, to take work on the schengen area seriously again - in the area of the certificate, in the area of the abolition of additional restrictions, in the area of the uniform application of rules. it goes far beyond the current situation. it is about rebuilding the schengen area, strengthening it and developing it further. because if the last few months have taught us anything, it is this: unity and diversity are fragile. to protect them is work, it is courage, it is rolling up our sleeves - also and especially for the minister of the interior.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. now it is there, the digital covid certificate. we did our job and got it going fast. but now it is about the member states implementing it quickly and making it available to citizens quickly - unbureaucratically, free of charge - so that citizens can really experience their freedom of travel, these opportunities in the schengen area. and i want to make it clear again that this certificate is not a compulsory vaccination, as some people have repeatedly shown here, but with the certificate it is possible to prove a vaccination, but also a negative test. and therefore this certificate does not restrict freedom of movement. on the contrary, it allows citizens to regain their freedom to travel and to travel for business, to provide crossborder services, to meet with their families, to work as seasonal workers. so this is a good step. but it's also clear to me that at the end of the pandemic, when we don't need the covid certificate, we need to be able to travel without it.
in writing. the council has agreed on the digital covid certificate, which will come into force on 1 july. the certificate is intended to enable europeans to move freely throughout the eu. the certificate shows whether a person has been vaccinated, tested negative, or recovered from covid. the commission and the council consider that this is neither a condition nor a restriction on freedom of movement within the eu, as the eu itself does not impose travel restrictions on member states. however, since all member states do this, this is de facto an important travel restriction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. it is now easier for an illegal migrant to enter europe and travel to his preferred destination than for europeans to travel wherever they want. the eu is conducting an unprecedented social experiment in mass surveillance, using the chinese flu as a cover. we are free citizens first and foremost!
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing today the timetable for the introduction of the four new own resources, and i have five objections to that. first, focusing on the supposed benefits distorts the view of the risks and the small effects on co2 savings. i hope we're all clear on that. secondly, the green deal is very closely linked to these new own resources. but of course, it can only give a certain boost at the beginning. but in the long run, if the co2 savings targets are reached, then of course the expected revenues will automatically dry up. the third point is that, with the co2 cap, we are basically making the same mistake we made when we introduced the vat system and are still making it. and if we keep doing the same thing and hoping for better results, albert einstein once said, that would be a sign of stupidity. i feel like we're doing the same thing here. i think that we also fall into the same category when we want to mix a market system, namely emissions trading - this new, expanded system - with a planned economic system, the co2 cap-off. this can't work! and who has ever seen exactly how that can work? it's not gonna work. and if you don't have a destination, you can't know the way to get there. and i think - as a final remark - that the eu's budgetary independence is unthinkable in isolation from the member states. and that's what we're doing here with this new equity system. the european union must remain accountable to both national governments and citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. finally, there will be a global minimum tax for large corporations. the agreement reached by the g7 finance ministers on saturday is historic. companies like amazon, ikea, apple, they have to do their fair share for the greater good. it must be stopped, that the craftsmen and the book dealers pay more taxes than the big corporations with billions of dollars. in future, a company will pay taxes in the country in which it makes profits. we owe this success to the new us treasury secretary janet yellen. it shows how much you can do for tax justice if you just want to. it is shameful that the eu countries have worked together to ensure that the tax rate was reduced from 21% to 15% in the final negotiations. this tax gift costs the eu 50 billion euros. we need an ambitious tax policy. we therefore call on the european commission to make a statement on its proposal for a digital tax and a carbon levy in july. do not let industrial lobbyism undermine your proposals! the commission has already made a number of proposals.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to say to president von der leyen that the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) is no ordinary law. if we get it right, it can be a blueprint for future european fiscal architecture, enabling a more resilient, sustainable and fair economy for all european citizens. my group supported you in setting it up. however, looking at the plans submitted by the member states, we are concerned. some member states treat the rrf as a simple refinancing tool, which means that the stimulus effect is neutralised and costs are simply shifted to the european level. many member states avoid ambitious reforms necessary to modernise the administration, even though the regulation requires them to do so. and most importantly for my group, many member states try the old practice of greenwashing, trying to sell hybrid cars, gas boilers and other dirty investments as green. president von der leyen, do not give in to these reluctant governments. do not approve plans that don’t fully comply with the law. tell president macron that he should address the french csr. tell chancellor merkel that she cannot use eu funds to get rid of her hybrid cars. tell prime minister draghi that he needs to fight greenwashing. and tell all governments across the eu to enforce the ‘do no significant harm’ principle. you have the full backing of this house to ensure that money is not wasted on national pet projects but used to fuel a green and a real tradition with a lasting impact. you said it: ‘long live europe’. i would say: ‘long live a better and reformed europe’.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam president of the commission! in february, this parliament approved the eu's reconstruction fund of over 750 billion euros, in breach of the eu treaty, because articles 310 and 311 of the eu treaties prohibit the eu from taking on debt. the debts are not recorded in any accounting system. so the eu is breaking the law and keeping the wrong books. the mountains of debt are wiping out germany and the north, only the money goes to the south and the east. the money disappears into the green deal, migration and the pockets of the super-rich and multinationals like microsoft. microsoft ireland alone made 316 billion dollars in profits in 2020 and paid not a penny in taxes. the eu calls this the european moon landing. the commission therefore examines the national spending plans. parliament is informed, but only sees the plans in part in english and in machine translation, because the commission does not want to burden its precious translators. even the highly paid officials there would have time to go through the it texts in poor english. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. this is all a farce. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis communautaire. but now almost all germans are supposed to work until 68. germany already has the highest tax rate in the world, ahead of belgium. the romantic poet novalis once said that you should pay your taxes as you would your lovers' gifts. today, almost everyone in the tax colony of germany has to do so out of unrequited love and mandatory devotion to the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. national plans must also close the gender gap, which has been further widened by corona. the focus on green and digital is right and important, but it risks exacerbating the large gender income gaps even further, using public funds. in the four sectors most heavily supported, the proportion of men in employment is well over 80%. thanks to a thorough analysis by the eprs - which i would like to thank very warmly for this - we know that very few plans contain concrete measures to ensure that these investments benefit not only men but also women. and we are very far from 50 percent. and so we urge the european commission to collect all data separately by gender, just as the european court of auditors has already done . this is the first step towards effective monitoring, towards real transparency, and also to be able to follow up if we find that the european fund for reconstruction is doing more harm than good to gender equality.
in writing. the commission now wants to start examining the national resilience and development plans and even wants to inform this parliament. after that, the billions will roll. but every single resilience and building plan is illegal. you are implementing an illegal procedure. with your so-called reconstruction fund, you're going way beyond your jurisdiction. and you're running a label scam. you talk about rebuilding, but we all know it's about your green deal. they want the transfer union, and germany to pay. dear german citizens, corona is the pretext that allows these people to impose on you the debt union that should never, never, never be. that was the promise. that was the deal. suddenly not so much. a european debt union is not controllable. the risks are incalculable. they have sealed your fate: work until you fall, earn little, hardly vacation for you, your children and your grandchildren! don't let that happen! hold your fire!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. already a year ago, well before the august elections, lukashenko, in the old dictatorial fashion, took his main contenders for the presidency out of the race by either having them arrested or forcing them into exile before the elections. on august 9, the stolen presidential election was followed by hundreds of arrests and subsequent torture of peaceful protesters in the cells of kgb prisons. we have heard a maximum of communications from the council and the commission expressing the usual concern, and we have heard untold lengths of negotiations with the permanent veto threat from cyprus - what a huge disappointment for the people of belarus. the repression of the protests by the dictator himself is one thing, but the fact that these protests, like their quest for democracy, did not find any immediate support in the eu was almost worse for many, and it was not only the summer break in brussels. with the murder of roman bondarenko on 12 november by lukashenko's henchmen, a new low point was reached, another red line was crossed. even after a long and undignified debate, only a few sanctions were imposed on people close to lukashenko. while the regime in belarus increased its pace of terror and intimidation, the eu slowed down its countermeasures. again and again, from many capitals, there was a need for business as usual. lukashenko, on the other hand, did not shy away from anything, as we are now seeing, not from a hijacking of an airliner between two eu capitals and not from public humiliation, from a public forced confession under obvious psychological and physical torture. the next step would be a public execution, isis style. but now it is not possible to rule out that this is the case if these means are useful for lukashenko's consolidation of power. so let us prevent the worst together and finally bring lukashenko's financial sources to a halt by means of targeted sanctions, sectoral sanctions against the belaruskali fertiliser sector, against naftan oil refining products or against the financial sector - i am referring to the temporary exclusion from the international banking system swift. only severe sanctions will prevent him from paying for his professional security and his thugs in the medium term. we owe all this to the people of belarus who are peacefully demonstrating.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 june 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the situation in afghanistan (2021/2712 (rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think that in the face of the bad news from afghanistan in recent months, we must not forget what has been achieved - in women's rights, in education, also economically - since 2001. it is right that we as the european union continue to support afghanistan. but it is also true that the situation is very worrying and that the achievements of the last 20 years are in danger. every day there are new attacks, there is a threat of famine, and over ten million people are already in need of humanitarian aid. hundreds of thousands are displaced within the country, and several million people have fled afghanistan. afghanistan is the most unstable country in the world, and the coronavirus pandemic is hitting the country hard. only a small proportion of people flee to europe, but those who do have a high chance of also being granted asylum in europe. i find it all the more incomprehensible that we have decided to deport to afghanistan and to have a new return agreement, in view of the news that we are receiving. a new study has just been published: 70% of the people who have been deported from europe have already fled afghanistan. i think that in view of the development and the withdrawal of troops, we should do two things above all, or at least say two things. firstly, i believe that we must support the local forces who are now also affected by the withdrawal of troops. it is not possible that people who have been committed to us for decades, who have worked for us, are now threatened by the taliban. and i think if we really care about the fate of afghanistan, we should stop deportations to afghanistan.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the situation in afghanistan is, in short, catastrophic. it should be clear to everyone here that the taliban will soon be taking back control of their country. but what most people do not seem to understand is the implications for our development aid. the eu has promised the country an additional 1.5 billion euros for the next few years! does anyone seriously believe that the taliban will respect a project commitment of funds? this is history! women's rights or girls' education will be a thing of the past. the eu is simply funding an islamist terrorist organisation. but the eu has already done this see hamas. and just like the palestinian terrorists, it then supports a backward medieval ideology called islam. our development policy must finally be adapted to reality. this kind of money-burning must come to an end!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 june 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on human rights and the political situation in cuba (2021/2745 ((rsp)).
in writing. the most reactionary and treacherous right wing of this parliament has staged yet another diatribe directed against cuba and its people. if they really cared about human rights, they would be demanding an end to the criminal economic, commercial and financial blockade that the united states of america has imposed on cuba and its people for 62 years. a lockdown that the trump administration has cruelly stepped up, even in the context of the pandemic, and that the biden administration is maintaining. a blockade repeatedly condemned by the united nations general assembly. let us be clear: we are facing a deplorable exercise in hypocrisy about democracy and human rights, things that these people are told very little about. actually, they have other purposes. they want to call into question the progress made in the normalisation of eu relations with cuba with the signing of the dialogue and cooperation agreement and seek to obstruct the completion of its ratification. they want to create the background for new and unspeakable manoeuvres of interference against cuba, of interference in decisions which only its people can sovereignly take. we in the european parliament express our solidarity with cuba and its people and praise their example of sovereignty, resistance, perseverance, coherence, courage and dignity.
the next item is the debate on the report by maría soraya rodríguez ramos, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 75th and 76th sessions of the united nations general assembly (2020/2128(ini)) (a9—0173/2021).
we are presenting this report for the 75th and 76th sessions of the united nations general assembly at a delicate time for multilateralism. this report is particularly relevant because of the context in which it is produced. on the one hand, it coincides with the recent 75th anniversary of the united nations. we must remember that the european union and the united nations have essentially a common path and objectives. they are born from the ashes of war to remind us that, in the face of a global order based on the struggle of the strongest, dialogue and concertation are not only the most desirable path, but the most effective. both emerge as a response to populism and to the identity-based and exclusionary nationalism which we are seeing resurge with particular virulence today, 75 years later. this report also covers two years marked by the covid-19 pandemic, which shocked the world revealing more than ever the need to strengthen cooperation and multilateral organizations. the pandemic has exacerbated existing inequalities and has put all of us, citizens, governments and multilateral organizations, in the face of our greatest vulnerabilities. the 1945 charter of the united nations makes an appeal that we can say today is still revolutionary. it reaffirms its faith in fundamental rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and in the equality of nations large and small. it therefore reaffirms the need to work towards conditions which make this possible. and the only known way is multilateralism. we must say that, in contrast to selective multilateralism, which is a form of self-interested and unilateral action, we in this report advocate effective multilateralism, to which the european union has committed itself through fundamental support to the united nations, but which must continue to be strengthened in various areas with the 2030 agenda as a consensus roadmap and which, moreover, must be led by the european union in those aspects which are of particular importance to our citizens. we therefore stress the fight against climate change and the recognition of the right to a healthy environment as a fundamental right. we ask for a commitment to responsible, humane and supportive management of migration. we call for greater efforts to combat systemic racism by setting up an independent international commission of inquiry into it. we call for greater efforts in defending equality against lgbtphobia and, of course, greater commitment to the rights of women and girls. we call for continued efforts to achieve arms control and international disarmament. and we reiterate here that the covid-19 vaccine must be considered a true global public good. when we speak of effective multilateralism we also ask the council to support all activities aimed at keeping human rights issues high on the united nations agenda. this task is all the more relevant, if possible, in a context in which in recent years we have seen the rise of narratives that attempt to undermine the international language of human rights, to relativize it, and ultimately to overturn and hide it under the carpet of state sovereignty. recent aggressive responses, mr high representative, such as those of china and russia against the european union, are some examples of this. but the european union's legislative power also lies in our ability to defend our founding values, which we share with the united nations, as projects which are truly essential. that is why we value the united nations charter, which recognizes the internal jurisdiction of the member states. we must defend that the appeal to national sovereignty cannot be used to shield a country from scrutiny of its behaviour towards its citizens. that is why we call for a comprehensive reform of the un human rights council that ensures a commitment to its founding principles and prevents abuses by authoritarian regimes, increasing synergies between the assembly, the human rights council and the security council and strengthening mechanisms for access to justice. it is not possible to defend human rights without fighting against impunity. the european union must continue to take steps to defend the mechanisms and bodies that work for justice. i would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the attacks on the international criminal court by relevant actors on the international scene are also a full-scale attack on multilateralism. the international criminal court is the only international institution that has the capacity to prosecute some of the world's most horrific crimes and defend victims who have no recourse. it's the only institution to seek justice, to give reparation to these victims. finally, i would like to point out that we are also calling for a consensus on the reform of the united nations security council, which would limit the right of veto in cases of crimes against humanity and lead to the european union acquiring a permanent seat on the council, in addition to the existing seats of the member states concerned. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by paraphrasing the spanish poet gabriel celaya: multilateralism is today a weapon laden with future, laden with future and peace. the united nations is an essential universal forum for consensus-building and the pursuit of peace, and the european union has a leading role in it.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, let’s have our last debate today with a little bit more of a positive perspective, because to talk about multilateralism is a good thing, and i am happy that this report is being presented today to the european parliament. en febrero de este año, junto con la comisión, presenté una comunicación conjunta que demuestra el compromiso de la unión europea con el multilateralismo, presenta un análisis de cómo podemos, desde la unión europea, contribuir a un orden global basado en reglas comunes y actualiza nuestra visión teniendo en cuenta la magnitud de los grandes problemas globales a los que hacemos frente, además en un contexto geopolítico más difícil. this dated policy was born out of our conviction that the values-based and rules—based multilateralism is absolutely necessary if we want to effectively confront global challenges, as i said, let it be pandemics or climate change or terrorism. it’s also clear that the stronger european union both strengthens this multilateral system and serves our own interests. i am happy to see that your draft report reinforces these key messages and the messages of our joint communication and that our political priorities are fully in synchronisation in general and regarding the priorities of the united nations general assembly. your report underlines the need for multilateral cooperation centred on the united nations and the importance of upholding human rights, universal values and the rule of law, which underpin the multilateral system. those values lie at the centre of the european union’s external action and our work across the united nations system, from the general system and the human rights council to the security council and the peacebuilding commission, as well as the many specialised united nations agencies and programmes which are so often vital for the european union in norm settings and project implementation. on 10 june, i will speak up for those values and for the need for multilateralism in my annual address to the united nations security council. as you know, the high representative represents the european union in front of the international bodies and in particular in front of the un security council, and it is my privilege to address this body. and in this address, i will call for a security council that fulfils its responsibility to address conflict, protect civilians and uphold international law effectively. the emphasis that you put on partnerships is also very welcome. we must be ambitious and broad in our partnership, including also countries that, despite our very differing views in important areas, we need to be on board to fight, for example, climate change and to bring peace and stability to certain regions. the fact that we don’t share the same political system with many different countries in the world should not prevent us from partnership with them in order to face our common challenges. and from this point of view, we have to celebrate the re-engagement of the us in multilateral organisations. i welcome very much this re-engagement. we are working to rebuild our historical good cooperation with the us and to strengthen our cooperation with other like-minded partners. and soon we are going to have a summit meeting with the new us administration, and i think that is going to be also a landmark of this re-engagement with the us, because only through collective efforts and leadership can we defend the multilateral order against some actors’ attempts to undermine the basic principles of international law and human rights. and you also rightly refer to this in your report. we will be discussing such cooperation, as i said, at the forthcoming eu-us summit and also at the summit with canada. and so the wide spectrum of matters in their agenda will, of course, include a particular emphasis on covid-19 and the recovery, protecting our planet and building a more democratic, peaceful and secure world. to all these objectives your report contributes, and i praise you for that. dear members, i note your call for close cooperation with regional organisations. this was also an important dimension of our joint communication on multilateralism. we are working to organise a european union-african union summit as soon as the pandemic allows it. unhappily, the pandemic has created a one-year delay in having the summit. i just came back from indonesia, where i had meetings with asean in order to reinforce our relations with this very important regional organisation, as proof of the attention that we have to pay to this important strategic partner and the rollout of the european union in the indo-pacific strategy. we already have this in the pacific, a strategy, and this is a way of projecting ourselves or engaging more, reaching out better with such a set of important countries which are responsible today in the pacific region for 60% of the global gnp. at the same time, we need to leverage our financial, diplomatic, commercial and technological strengths to defend our interests and values forcefully and successfully. this also means taking a more strategic approach to the election of leadership posts in multilateral organisations. sometimes we are not enough united in order to be able to get some of these important posts, and recently it has been a couple of elections in which we europeans haven’t shown enough unity. we are working with member states to encourage greater coordination, the least we can say: we need greater coordination on the international fora. and finally, let me inform you that the foreign affairs council will soon adopt conclusions on our priorities for the forthcoming session of the united nations general assembly. i take note of the recommendation in your report. it provides a timely political input for finalising this work and for the implementation of the joint communication on multilateralism. and i am happy to see that the high representative, the european commission, the council and the parliament work together on the same approach and with the same perspective in order to influence the world and to implement this effective multilateralism that you have been asking for in your report.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur and the fellow shadows for very good cooperation while drafting this recommendation. multilateralism, if it is to continue to be relevant, must be effective. i believe that there are four fundamental aspects which we need to address to ensure that they continue to benefit from the multilateral cooperation and from the institutions and that they serve the causes of freedom and human dignity. first, we finally need a strong and comprehensive strategic discussion and direction from the eu member states about the eu’s role in the world. second, we need to put our values, especially support for freedom and democracy, at the heart of our multilateral agenda. third, we must not be afraid to reform multilateral fora that are falling short, for example the human rights council abused by authoritarian regimes and with a strong anti-israel bias. fourth, we must build the resilience of multilateral fora against the malign influence of authoritarian regimes, in particular the communist party in china. i believe the free world has an important stake in ensuring that the multilateral system remains relevant and resilient. we need to be ambitious, have a clear strategy, and defend freedom.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr borrell, the high representative, is very much appreciated. 2009 the global economic crisis triggered in the us, 2015 the refugee crisis triggered in syria and 2020 the health crisis triggered in china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the lack of adequate food supplies in developing countries. we europeans have a great responsibility here, particularly in the examples i have mentioned, including tasks that partly belong to the heart of global cooperation, the un. the european union is not going to be able to solve these problems on its own, mr borrell. we urgently need reforms of the un bodies - be it the un security council on the one hand or the un human rights council, unhcr, on the other. these must be reformed. it has been discussed for years, mr borrell, but unfortunately too little has been done. the chinese government has recently taken over the chairmanship of the human rights council. when you think about it, you wonder what's wrong with that. the chinese government is actively engaged in genocide of the uighurs and daily violates human rights in hong kong and tibet. all demands on the government and china are ignored by the chinese government. how did it get this far, mr. borrell? it's very simple: there's a lack of sustained, coordinated international response, and that's why the chinese government is sticking to all these human rights violations. for the people of europe to see that our words are followed by deeds, mr borrell, we need a permanent seat on the un security council.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the other parties are now again happy to give out very, very much european taxpayers' money. i'm not even sure that those who they're going to give the money to are very happy about it, because unfortunately this program is also massively overloaded politically. development aid means that people outside europe can develop in their own countries as they wish, without us exporting to them political content which is controversial even within our own countries but which is not welcome, especially in more traditional regions. and that is why we shall vote against it. first, because it's too much money, second, because it's the wrong content, and third, because there's poor control over what happens to it at all. who exactly is going to get the money? again, the usual ngos, which then agree in content with those who here give the tone of gender politics over climate protection? development aid is about giving the nations of the third world the chance to develop themselves on the basis of their values, their traditions and their own talents. it is not about billions from european budgets with political prescriptions, but about partnership, freedom and respect for other ways.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. the ndici is intended to bring together different financial instruments for security and development policy. the new instrument, however, is the eu's final departure from a social, sustainable, democratic and peace-promoting development policy. ndici not only means less transparency, but also a diversion of purpose for external and geopolitical purposes. the link between development aid and the prevention of migration is still unacceptable and represents a false eu migration policy. instead of tackling the causes of displacement with a stop to arms exports, a fair trade policy is being pursued in isolation and human rights are being violated. the financing of the support, training and equipment of armies in third countries by ndici is totally unacceptable. my dear colleagues, what is happening here is not helping the people of the global south, nor is it helping us here - quite the opposite. i would therefore ask you to accept our amendment. development aid must not be diverted.
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the creation of the new neighbourhood development and international cooperation instrument, with a budget of eur 79 billion, will make a major contribution to making the union's external policy more coherent, responsive and effective by combining the different funding instruments. it is important to set aside a financial reserve within this, which can be used in unexpectedly emerging crisis situations. i welcome the fact that the objectives of the pooled funds finally include tackling the phenomenon of illegal migration at its root, for example by funding education and development in the poorest countries. this is consistent with the hungarian approach that it is not illegal migration that should be attracted to europe through mandatory distribution, but that aid should be delivered to the countries that send migrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today we are launching an important reform of our financial instruments for international cooperation: from 11 different programmes with different procedures and accountability, we are moving to one instrument with uniform conditions and the possibility of more flexible use of funds. the commission has called for this reform. the member states and we as parliament share the objective of greater efficiency and coordination. now the baby's in the world, and we have to raise the child. it is clear that this reform will not necessarily strengthen our right to speak in parliament. it is therefore all the more important now that we take communication between us - parliament and the commission - beyond the budgetary debates seriously. this concerns the opinions and decisions of parliament and, of course, the new geopolitical dialogue which we will be officially launching next week. the stakes are high: our eu, our values and our economic model are in fierce international competition, and our citizens are demanding concrete results. but above all, in our highly interconnected world, we have an ethical obligation to ensure that all people can escape from hunger, poverty, oppression and lack of freedom and thrive. our planet has enough resources and space if we all use it responsibly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you have done a great deal of work during the negotiations, and yesterday we voted in committee on this instrument, which is intended to promote partnership and cooperation with third countries. this instrument will finance support for human rights, democracy, security and peace to enhance resilience and enable the linking of humanitarian aid to development. we welcome that this instrument includes a strong, legally binding official development assistance target of 93%, as well as very strong gender equality targets and significant climate and environmental protection targets. it was very important for us to find the right language and a balanced approach to migration. development cooperation must not be guided by the interests of member states but by the fight against poverty and global inequalities. we need to fill this instrument with new projects, with the stakeholders and the communities concerned. we must get down to business and make our partnership more meaningful.
i have to say, madam president, my fellow citizens! thanks to the completely disproportionate measures against the coronavirus, a million people have already lost their jobs in germany alone. this is just the beginning. six-figure corporate bankruptcies will soon follow, and this will be true throughout europe. nevertheless, the eu is planning to spend almost €80 billion on development aid by 2027. the european union has also committed itself to supporting the development of the european union's external relations. in africa, for example, the project to promote legal migration and mobility programmes is to be subsidised. the migration pact will create countless pull effects to attract even more unskilled and culturally alien migrants to europe. this is ideologically blinded madness! i would remind the commission here - and i would remind my colleagues who are living in their ivory tower of ideology - that: here, hard-earned taxpayers' money is being burned, and this money should serve the person who earned it - the european citizen - in a historically unprecedented economic crisis. don't you forget that!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are talking about the european social fund plus. in the past, this amounted to €90 billion, so it is a small amount in eu terms. and germany got 7.5 billion euros from it. in future, germany will receive 6.5 billion euros, which is logical, because germany does not know poverty. what is the purpose of this fund? it is designed to ensure a more social and climate-neutral europe. the eu is thus squaring the circle. because climate neutrality and social policy, they don't go together. politics has already led to germany having the highest electricity prices in europe. rent is skyrocketing, gas prices are skyrocketing, and everything is going to get a lot worse in the future. millions of value-adding jobs will be destroyed. but of course, that doesn't matter to the green-voting, gender-elevator-riding tesla driver. so, social policy is different. and who are we supporting? what projects are supported in germany? does the bottle collector retiree benefit? does the single mother benefit? are the homeless benefiting? are longterm unemployed benefiting? i'm not going to. the main projects supported are those for migrants in poverty in gelsenkirchen, the poorest city in germany, and primarily for the sinti and roma. what do you do? they throw nice parties. you dance, you sing, you clap, you jump. this is how you think about integration. that's how you think about social policy. social policy is always a policy which promotes work, value-added work. and we need that. - thank you.
in writing. mr president, children and young people are the future for all of us, and the european parliament must therefore strongly support the fight against youth unemployment and child poverty as set out in the european social fund 2021-2027. we must do so in the light of the alarming statistics. there are some 18 million children in the eu at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and in some member states the numbers are very high. the outbreak and its social and economic consequences have only exacerbated inequality and poverty. unfortunately, child poverty persists in all member states and is much higher than among adults of working age. in addition, youth unemployment in the eu has increased by 3% since december 2019, bringing the number of unemployed young people to over 3 million. these are alarming numbers that simply compel us to act. the european commission must do its utmost to ensure that member states receive sufficient esf+ funding to implement policies effectively to combat youth unemployment and child poverty. we should also remember that the best way to fight child poverty is to support families both financially and by facilitating their parents' access to the labour market and services. we can reduce child poverty by supporting families.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on: - the question for oral answer to the council on parliament's right of inquiry submitted by antonio tajani and domènec ruiz devesa, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs (o-000029/2021 - b9-0020/21) (2021/2632(rsp)), and the question for oral answer to the commission on parliament's right of inquiry submitted by antonio tajani and domènec ruiz devesa, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs (o-000030/2021 - b9-0021/21) (2021/2632(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss the important issue of parliament’s inquiry powers and to take stock of the recent development. let me start by assuring you that the council shares the view that committees of inquiry are important instruments. they allow the european parliament to exercise its political control in our union, founded on the values of respect for democracy and the rule of law, as required by the treaty. the council is therefore well aware that this legally complex and politically sensitive dossier is of great interest for the european parliament. the parliament is also aware, for its part, of the council’s serious legal and political concerns on a number of key provisions of this proposal. i understand many of these concerns are also shared by the commission. since the martin report in 2011, the council has been examining a series of proposals in a constructive spirit and in respect for the duty of sincere cooperation. however, as it is well known, serious legal and institutional concerns persist, in particular regarding the limits imposed by article 226 of the treaty, and there are questions about whether the european parliament’s committees of inquiry should be instruments of political control or have quasi-judicial powers. indeed, this first proposal foresaw a far-reaching extension of the rights of the committees of inquiry that was considered to go beyond article 226. despite subsequent discussions, including between the three legal services, some progress was made on some less problematic provisions, but not on the most complex issues of a legal and political nature. as you know, in its letter of 25 october 2018, the council welcomed a non-paper prepared by mr jáuregui atondo, who was the rapporteur on the file at the time, as a new attempt to revive the political dialogue amongst the three institutions. in this letter, the council again expressed its concerns regarding the proposal. in october 2020, the presidency took due note of parliament’s renewed wish to resume the political dialogue, as outlined in a new letter by chair tajani and rapporteur ruiz devesa. this letter was carefully examined by the council, and some progress was indeed made on parliament’s side towards meeting some of the concerns expressed by the council. i can only welcome such a constructive approach. however, our assessment is that the majority of the legal and political concerns of the council have not yet been addressed. therefore, i can only restate the council’s position on these important issues, as expressed in our letter of october 2018. i assure you that the council continues to be open to a constructive dialogue with the european parliament in order to explore ways forward, as i had the opportunity to convey to the members of the committee on constitutional affairs at the beginning of our presidency. today, i also had the opportunity to meet rapporteur ruiz devesa ahead of this debate and i reiterated our availability in this sense. we had a very open and frank discussion, and i want to thank the rapporteur for that possibility of dialogue. i reiterated that should parliament wish to carry on the work based on the efforts made so far and show willingness to reconsider its approach on most of the controversial issues, the council stands ready to examine it further in full respect of the duty of sincere cooperation.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to underline once more that the commission recognises the importance of the parliament’s right of inquiry. however, this is without prejudice to the powers conferred by the treaties to the other institutions. while it is for the parliament to make a proposal, the procedure also requires the consent of the council and of the commission. in 2012, the european parliament adopted its proposal to revise the decision currently governing the exercise of the parliament’s right of inquiry. since then, regrettably, there has been little progress on this file. the commission takes note that, under the current parliamentary legislature, the european parliament decided to resume the negotiations based on the non—paper politically endorsed by the parliament’s committee on constitutional affairs in april 2018. in the previous primary debate on this topic on 17 april 2019, the commission welcomed that the 2018 non—paper was drafted in more precise legal terms and it included several improvements. we had, however, also pointed out that, despite this progress, the non—paper did not address all the commission’s substantial legal and institutional concerns. with a view to finding appropriate solutions to the divergences that still exist between the institutions, i would like to stress once more the commission’s continued willingness and commitment to engage in a constructive trilateral discussion. as vice—president šefčovič – whom i have the honour to represent tonight – stated on several occasions in his structured dialogues with the committee on constitutional affairs in 2020 and 2021, in order to make progress on this file, all three institutions need to adapt a solution—oriented attitude. the future regulation on the right of inquiry should provide the european parliament with the appropriate instrument, while fully respecting institutional prerogatives and the relevant legal frameworks of member states.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if you look at the case, you could almost say in modern german: dramedy. but this is too serious. it is a formidable funeral that we are witnessing, and a funeral that is also an insult to the undoubtedly existing intelligence of most of those involved. we're going into year ten, year ten is almost full. when i hear the phrasing, i think i'm in the wrong event. important instrument we are aware complex delicate council's concern about some key areas we welcome the constructive approach of the parliament important institutional, legal, political control: all said today. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. and now a letter has been written welcoming the progress, it has been said again that the constructive approach is welcomed. but that's not the point. this is the third time, if i'm counting correctly, that a reporter has been starved to death in this house. you let him run into the void with a cold smile. it is not about the presidency of the council either. the council is also, for the twentieth time, abandoning a council presidency with a cold smile. i expect that the next time we sit here we will discuss this matter with the president of the council. finally, the president of the council is called upon to give an assurance that cooperation will be fully respected. it's not about saying yes with enthusiasm. it is not a question of negotiating hard, but of discussing whether the council is prepared to speak informally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, we know that the citizens of europe want more democracy. and they sometimes wonder why progress in democratization is so miserably slow. i think this is a good case study to illustrate the reasons why parliament's right of inquiry has been suspended for so long. it is one of the most important and oldest rights of parliaments in all democratic countries. it is indeed important that committees of inquiry can be set up to detect breaches and irregularities in the application of union law. you have to be able to look at them. it is important that this parliament should be able to do this comprehensively, and you, as the portuguese presidency of the council, know that the treaty of lisbon has made progress in this area, but that at the same time we are unable to implement this progress at all and that - as has already been said - this dossier has been blocked since the second to last legislature. and who's blocking it? from the council? the institution that is supposed to be democratically controlled. that's why it's important that this blockade be lifted. the fact is that warm words are not going to help because the council refuses to look for solutions, because the council is stonewalling and because the whole procedure has been frozen for ages. and it also means that you're not even looking for the conversation anymore. i want to say very clearly that this weakens the democracies of the union, is not in the spirit of the eu treaties, is not in the spirit of our citizens, is not compatible with the democratic right of control of parliament and is really a setback for democracy, for transparency in the european union. that is why it is time to risk more democracy, and now and not just on st. nimmerlein's day.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. just the lack of cooperation. we have found words to hide an intolerable blockage. in my country, they say, "not a single good word, not a single good deed". and that's what we've found: no bad word, no good deed. and i'm sorry to say, and it's not an exaggeration to say. the commission and the council must approve the proposals we put to them, but to do so, an institutional dialogue must be launched to reach a consensus, and what we have today is a refusal to engage in dialogue. the commission and the council are using a ruse, which is not really very legal, to prevent that approval from ever taking place. the attitude of the council and the commission asking parliament to submit a text which they can approve directly - they say - without opening up to institutional dialogue, clashes with the attitude maintained in dealing with the reform of the statute of the european ombudsman, which we are precisely going to vote on this week. that is why they wanted to talk and we have reached an agreement. what is preventing the council from doing the same with regard to parliament's right of inquiry? they can't argue that we're irresponsible in the use of competition. this house has shown rigour and great consensus in seeking to protect the common interest. we have demonstrated this in the temporary committee of inquiry into bse (bovine spongiform encephalopathy), which we know as mad cow disease; in the committee of inquiry into allegations of infringement and mismanagement in the application of union law in relation to money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance, which we know as the panama papers; or in the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector. with more powers our work would have been more useful to europeans. the constitutional affairs committee adopted its first report - the martin report - on 14 october 2011. i mean, we've been at it for almost ten years and we've gotten nothing. we have no choice but to address the reasons for the persistence of the council's blockade from one mandate to another. parliament is the only institution directly representing the union which asks them for something as basic as a committee of inquiry to be able to call for public prosecutions and, if they do not provide reasonable grounds for appearing, to be able to impose some kind of sanction. and there's no justification for refusing under strict guarantees. we have shown that parliament is rigorous in its work. i therefore share mr devesa's view that we have run out of patience.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee of inquiry is one of the most important tools of any parliament, because a parliament is supposed to control government action, administrative action and to clarify when something goes wrong. in germany, committees of inquiry are often the most publicly perceived part of parliamentary work, whether at wirecard or at the toll booth. and as unpleasant as it is for the ministers concerned or the chancellor, this accountability is essential for our democracy. of course, there are also matters in the political work of the european union which are the subject of a committee of inquiry. the european parliament, although it is in the treaty, still does not have the right to invite commission officials to examine confidential documents. we've been waiting - we've heard it several times tonight - for over a decade. the european parliament of the eu lacks one of the most important instruments of political responsibility, and the governments in the council - you, mrs zacarias - do not even want to negotiate with us about it. you do not want to face up to your political responsibility towards all europeans. the european parliament is not the only institution in the world that is responsible for the implementation of the treaty of rome. as unpleasant as a genuine right of inquiry in individual cases may be, it is so important for democracy and as long as we continue to resist it, we need not be surprised if citizens continue to have the impression that the council and the commission do not want to assume their political responsibilities fully.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, should the european parliament have an independent right of inquiry on the model of the right of inquiry exercised by the national parliaments of the member states of the union? the answer depends on how one views the european parliament. if, from a purely institutional point of view, it is considered that the powers of the european parliament should be aligned with those of the national parliaments, then the answer can only be affirmative. this is the position expressed by the majority of the european parliament in its resolution of 18 april 2019 and reiterated by the authors of the oral question under debate today. if, on the other hand, we take into account the lack of democratic legitimacy of the european union, then the answer must be no. that is the council's position and that is my position. there is no european people above the european nations. the european parliament therefore represents only a fictitious sovereign and cannot claim to be given democratic control powers which only belong to national parliaments representing real peoples. the european parliament already has a limited right of inquiry under article 226 tfeu, the exercise of which is subject to the council's approval. that's a lot. let him be content with that, instead of trying to accentuate the union's federal drift.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the full right of control is one of the central tasks of any parliament. the european parliament has been denied this right by the eu's heads of state or government for a decade. it is not only high time, no, it is overdue to correct the shortcomings that have emerged in the course of previous studies. only in this way can committees of inquiry also be an important instrument of control vis-à-vis the eu executive. this is the only way to ensure that national and eu authorities do not refuse access to relevant information and other matters of everyday life in the european union in the future. we also need to establish urgently how confidential information is to be handled. the reform discussions, which have been ongoing since 2014 and in which the council has been blocking progress for years, must finally be concluded constructively in order to bring the rules into line with existing law. what fear is driving the council? the fear that the directly elected representatives might question grievances? i therefore ask you, mrs zacarias, i ask the slovenian presidency and the council as a whole: let us at last enter into constructive dialogue in order to reach an agreement. let us not further undermine the citizens' confidence in european democracy!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate is already partly absurd. perhaps the setting up of a committee of inquiry is not the oldest right of a parliament, as the s&d group member has said. but at least it is a right which the european parliament has had under article 226 since the treaty of lisbon. and that is why, to put it mildly, the council's lack of institutional commitment has been expressed here as something more than indecent, and that is now expressed in a rather parliamentary friendly way, since you are not even prepared to engage in informal discussions at all. we should think about whether we can file a motion for inaction at this point. we are now on to another subject, the rule of law, because that is what is at stake. the right wing of this house has now taken on a truly absurd character. so you are saying that the european parliament's demands are beyond its powers, ultra vires, beyond the treaties. yes, that is what the european court of justice in luxembourg is for. we could have that checked out. that is why the council must act, because the right of inquiry is a right, a political right of credibility, and we are most credible when we ourselves respect the rule of law. we must also reflect a little on ourselves here, because too often in this house the principles of the rule of law are violated, the rules of procedure are stretched too often, to the left and to the right, in all possible directions. i am thinking, for example, of the president's very liberal political expression. this is also part of the problem, but i would like to make a general appeal to you: this right has been in place for 12 years under the treaty of lisbon, and now please move a little. you could be proud of your presidency of the council if it succeeds and comes to a conclusion now, of all times.
i have to say, madam president, in 1770, the essay "thoughts on the cause of the present discontents" by the british political thinker edmund burke was published. in it he stressed the role of the parties and parliament in the separation of powers and control of unchecked executive power. the eu parliament approves laws, can consult commissioners and co-decides on the budget. it may set up committees of inquiry and call witnesses, but it may not compel attendance or testimony under oath. so this toothless parliament is now demanding more rights and more power. but burke also warned in his essay against the so-called friends of the king, parliamentarians who torpedo the control of parliament from within. the european parliament has a lot of royal friends, that is, gatekeepers of the real powers, bankers and financial lobbyists who seek the warmth and silverware of power and pose as the savior of the world and refuse to control ngos through tax exemptions and money laundering. but before we talk about the right of control of parliament, we should take this role seriously. this house is not a control body in the burke sense, but a cheering room for tangible economic interests and fantasies, which shuns uncomfortable questions, restricts freedom of expression and wants to abolish europe. burke said: "no european can be a complete exile in any part of europe". we may add: 'no true european can feel entirely at home in the european parliament'.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european council, like all the other european institutions, welcomes the agreement on the european climate law, which will cost ordinary citizens a lot in the form of co2 taxes on all the things of daily life. the small taxpayers will also have to pay for a parliament with two places of work. in the midst of a pandemic situation, as the council states, in which political decisions have destroyed countless economic existences and travel for citizens has been or is virtually impossible, and the ink under the 'oh so fancy' climate law is not yet completely dry, the insane, politically-intentional traveling circus between brussels and strasbourg is being launched. corona and co2 the two omnipresent topics. homo politicus is immune to one, and doesn't care about the other. so in a way, everything remains the same, the self-righteous and appointed political elites remain as hypocritical as ever.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's time to go! it is time for the commission to do its homework. we have seen the rule of law destroyed in europe for too long. it is time to take off the velvet gloves and finally defend the rule of law with determination. every euro, every euro that is poured into the dark pockets of europe is a threat to the credibility of europe. and that is why we say clearly today as the european parliament: we will not stand for this any longer! we will not tolerate this and today we are suing the european commission for inaction. and of course it is in the nature of the matter of a motion for a resolution that it is no longer necessary as soon as we see action, as soon as we see action by the european commission. but i want to make it clear to my group that we will not accept the idea of setting guidelines as an action. the guidelines are not in the regulation. they're a diversionary maneuver by the council, and they're a delaying tactic. we will not accept that! it is embarrassing that the us is now sanctioning corrupt oligarchs in bulgaria while the european commission continues to play its hand in the sand. and that is why we cannot accept this at this point. and i want to say one last thought: the institutional role is also at stake. we are not going to accept that the european council simply ignores a decision by the legislators, a regulation? we will not accept this! and mrs von der leyen can and must decide whether her commission is fighting for the rule of law on our side or on the side of viktor orbán and the polish government.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, today is the 24th debate on the rule of law, including in hungary, since viktor orbán was elected in 2010. twenty-four times we have discussed the dismantling of democracy, the attacks on the free media, on independent judges. and all these debates, of course, haven’t stopped orbán from turning hungary into a corrupt autocracy right at the heart of the european union. first, the commission looked away. then the commission said, ‘we don’t have the tools’. now you do have the tools, but you are not using it. the commission remains inactive while the assault on our values, on our rights and on our money continues every day. orbán’s family and his friends keep stealing our money. and you, commissioner, have said it again today: ‘no case will be lost’, suggesting that we have time, but we don’t. in a bit over six months, there is an election in hungary. and of course, the fate of viktor orbán is for the hungarian voters to decide. but we need to make sure that our eu money is not contributing to rigging or stealing that election. so the inaction of the commission is highly political, because your inaction allows orbán to buy support with eu money. your inaction allows orbán to control the media coverage of that campaign. and your inaction means that the opposition is not contesting in a fair and free election in hungary. and that’s why, after 24 debates, after 10 years, we’re suing the commission. because we don’t want the european union to support the re-election campaign of a corrupt autocrat in hungary.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are arguing today about something which i am very surprised that we are even taking the word into our mouths here. we want to defend the rule of law, and at the same time we are massively breaking treaties if we think we can just sue the commission for inaction. i would like to point out something which i think is lacking in the whole debate. there are the so-called conclusions of the european council of 11 december 2020. number 2 (c) says this: i summed it up: firstly, the commission develops and adopts guidelines. secondly, the member states are closely involved in this development. thirdly, in the event of an action for annulment concerning these schemes, the guidelines will not be finalised until after the decision of the european court of justice, in order to ensure that the guidelines contain all the essential elements of the court's decision. and until the guidelines are finalised, the commission will not propose any measures under this regulation. it's very simple. and why shouldn't that be true? (several interlocutors from the chamber) i ask you, please, not to harm our european institutions! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the end, you blow up the european union - you really don't want to do that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have heard a lot about what happened in porto, and if you can sum it up, it is this: the promise was made in porto that a new era was beginning in europe; a time when more and better jobs were at the forefront, where opportunities for training and participation were really enhanced and poverty was reduced. porto is a signal to me that we are not just talking about social europe, but that we are doing something about it. and that's supposed to build trust. what is trust? niklas luhmann once said: "trust is a mechanism for reducing social complexity". it sounds complicated, but what he's saying is simple: trust helps us navigate an increasingly uncertain world of risk and uncertainty. and that's what the social summit is about: to rebuild the trust of eu citizens, to give people the confidence that we can really tackle these transformations in terms of climate change and digitalisation together, leaving no one behind. the reconstruction programme is the anchor of stability to manage the impact of the global pandemic and to address the social consequences. jean-claude juncker has said before that this pillar should be a compass for more convergence and that the social partners should play a special role in this. yes, dear nicolas schmit, dear council, we are now facing the ultimate test. the european semester, these national development plans, are they being reoriented, or are we going back to the well-trodden paths of the european semester? we have to show that we really want to make a difference. we therefore need a concrete proposal for monitoring progress at the highest level. we need this now, as well as a social check to see whether all the initiatives we are taking are really serving and promoting these social objectives. in this sense, we can all contribute to greater trust.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the covid pandemic has plunged us into the biggest crisis since the end of world war ii. and how has this parliament reacted to this? twice last year, it was simply sent home for several weeks. while all the parliaments of the world were working at full speed, we were not there. and it didn't bother anyone, and nobody noticed. what has the commission done? the commission has failed completely and totally in its vaccine strategy. ursula von der leyen should have resigned long ago. and how does our president sassoli react to this? he wants more eu. it calls for more powers from the member states. it is a question of the social dimension, and it is a question of the social dimension. moreover, even the health union is now to be implemented. thank god that before the porto summit eleven member states made it quite clear that they would not take part. except for austria, which happens to be all the countries from the north. who's surprised? president sassoli, mrs von der leyen, i would ask you to keep your distance. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have the right to decide on the future of the community. keep your distance!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. attacks on the irish health service, the national bank or the european parliament: when authoritarian regimes or criminals attack our european institutions or companies, it is increasingly online. cybersecurity is one of the biggest challenges we have in security policy. and the truth is, we're not prepared for it. cybersecurity is underestimated by the general public, businessmen and many politicians. over one trillion euros of damage to the global economy was caused by cyberattacks in 2019 alone. the consequences for our democracy are grave. the greens have three points in the debate. firstly, we need better coordination between the member states and the eu. we strongly criticise the fact that some member states are not prepared to give the eu sufficient powers for ideological reasons. with nationalist petty-petty, we're not going to stand a chance against cyberattacks. second, strong privacy protections prevent security breaches, and open standards reduce vendor dependence. and thirdly, we need to expand our legislation and move faster. technology is faster than politics. we need legislation for smart technologies and uniform standards for critical infrastructure like health care or our education system. we are working together successfully in parliament on this. it is time for the member states to wake up and support us.
(mike's voice breaks) ... in the united states, which targeted the pipeline industry and also the meat processing industry, illustrate the vulnerability of highly connected societies to cybercrime. i am aware that the talks within the united nations are progressing, albeit slowly too slowly. and the proposal for a un geneva digital convention is on the table. if this is to be welcomed, it is unlikely that these talks can keep up with the pace of aggressive threats. i therefore welcome the initiative to make member states more resilient to such attacks. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat cyber terrorism, including the creation of a european cyber security centre. but we need to find the right balance between security and freedom on the internet, because it would be easy for totalitarian regimes to restrict access to the internet in the name of security.
i have to say, madam president, thank you to mr bușoi for the questions to the european commission on cybersecurity. the most obvious threat of spying and sabotage on it infrastructures by the us and china - often at the instigation of state bodies - is not being tackled decisively by the eu, but rather by pursuing a cozy policy, which in itself makes it untrustworthy. the questions are valid, however, and show that there are still clear and unrecognizable shortcomings in the areas of cybersecurity and thus digitalisation. the preamble correctly notes that cybersecurity as a basic prerequisite must already be fully implemented before digital infrastructure can be fully exploited. while the internet was new to german chancellor merkel years ago - which presupposes that she had discovered it - the eu was not yet so new to the internet. you haven't had it on your screen in a long time. the eu is of course at the forefront of such trivial issues as the cultivation of genetically modified maize in indonesia. but when it comes to really important and significant issues, the eu is inactive for a long time only to react in a hectic way. but proactivity is needed here if we are not to fall behind the us and china in research and development. and that is exactly what has happened, as is evident to all. the eu bureaucracy will no longer be able to catch up. this will not succeed, in particular, because instead of promoting research and development of digitisation, the eu prefers to focus on ideologically motivated but completely irrelevant secondary battlegrounds such as gender equality, gender budgeting and carbon neutrality. the president shall then take the floor.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the office of the eu ombudsman is modelled on the scandinavian examples of ombudsmen, but the eu version is slightly weaker. there are no binding recommendations, for example, on access to documents and so on. so the revision of the statute could have been an opportunity to further strengthen the ombudsman, to building towards the good examples of ombudsmen and that we have in a couple of european countries. but i guess the good work that the ombudsman has been doing for many years – holding those in power to account, fighting for more transparency against excessive revolving doors, for more transparency in the council, for example – has not only created fans of the institution of the ombudsman. so in this situation, thank you to you paolo for having negotiated what remains a good compromise. i would have liked to seen it stronger, but i’m glad we managed this revision of the statute.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to welcome the ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, to the house. it is a good sign for the citizens of europe to have such an agreement. and i think that's exactly why the right wing here is trying to speak ill of it: because they know that the office of ombudsman has, over the last few years, contributed significantly to strengthening the trust and reputation of the european institutions and, above all, to supporting the claim to have a right to good administration. i am therefore particularly pleased that mr paulo rangel, together with commissioner dalli and the portuguese presidency, have succeeded in getting this agreement for you, mrs zacarias, because i believe that it is really very important to take a step forward here after such a long time - after more than 25 years. many would have liked to have taken even greater steps, but that is the way politics is when three institutions work together. i can only congratulate everyone and hope that the citizens will soon be aware of this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, we need to fight online bullying, but it's not a women's issue. i think all of us, whether we're men or women, have been called the worst names on the internet. but we also have to say that we don't want snowflakes. you've got to grow a thick skin to be a politician. and it must be said that the existing criminal laws are sufficient. you can take action against insults, you can take action against slander, you can take action against hate speech, you can take action against bullying. the problem is just - and the problem has been around for a long time - that the online media, the big providers, can still refuse to give out the big names. and here's the real problem: you can't get to the perpetrators because they use the protection of false anonymity to get rid of their hate, to get rid of their disgusting insults. as soon as the laws are changed to require the names of the victims to be made public on judicial request, the problem will be solved immediately, and that is my recommendation.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the hatred and incitement against women in politics, but also against women journalists and women scientists, is an attack on freedom of expression and democracy. but online hate is also a political tool, often in the form of coordinated campaigns, used very deliberately to silence women, especially women from minorities. and often these campaigns are successful. because even if the victims of violence can stand up, many other girls and women are discouraged. and we miss their voices. that's not new. but what's new is that hatred of women is a money maker, that it's a business model. because online platforms promote hate and incitement because they make a lot of money doing it. this has to stop! but the good news is that with the digital services act, we can put an end to this business model that makes hate and incitement so lucrative. and that's what we should be doing. at the same time, this bill can also provide rules that make the web a safe place for women again. it does.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we could take stock here of all the intimidation, harassment or violent words that each of us is subjected to, i am sure, mr president, that a week's debate would not be enough. but we are not here to talk about us alone, we are here to talk, above all, about all those women who suffer this intolerable form of violence in every social, census and religious condition. and so hate must be stopped even when it travels online. that's why we need to impose transparency and collaboration on web operators. we must clearly define the scope of hate speech so that we can prosecute it, because it is a crime, mr president. hatred is a crime, not an opinion, and that is why urgent action, including legislation, is needed from the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, free women, women who think, who express their ideas, who carry on battles, women who choose politics as a career, often arouse hatred and annoyance, typical of a masculinist and patriarchal culture still very widespread in europe. cyber violence hits women who expose themselves, overwhelming them with avalanches of insults, sexist phrases, threats. that's what happened to me a few days ago, not the first time. after i spoke on tv, a man on facebook threatened to rub me with acid. i reported this to the police because i know the law and i have the tools to defend myself, but girls and women who don't have the tools and who are afraid to report are lonely, and we have to protect and help them. the adoption of legislation on violence on social networks can no longer wait. the multinational web companies must be obliged to provide the identity data of online abusers quickly. if they do not, they become accomplices and must take responsibility, paying damages to the victims. the time has come, mr president, to introduce a tax on hate speech and a european dashboard against the keyboard lions that are undermining freedom and the right to live the web in a way that respects the individual.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, thank you for the participation in this debate to which i listened very carefully, even to your personal experiences, to which i can join my own. it shows us how much more we still have to do in this area. ahead of the last european elections, the commission launched the campaign #digitalrespect4her to raise awareness about online violence against women and to promote good practices to tackle this issue. we are now taking an even stronger stand on combating gender-based violence and online hate speech. while the accession of the eu to the istanbul convention remains our top priority we will, by the end of this year, present a new legislative proposal to prevent and combat gender-based violence, online and offline. as announced in our gender equality strategy, we will also launch a self-regulatory framework between internet platforms to better protect women’s online safety. misogyny is often weaponised and attacks on women are often sexist in nature. this is why we will be launching an eu-wide campaign to tackle gender stereotypes. gender-based online violence must be looked at from the intersectional perspective, thus to be seen together with racism, religious bigotry, homophobia and xenophobia used on the internet to diminish people’s voices. by the end of the year, the commission will put forward an initiative to extend the list of eu crimes under the treaties to hate crime and hate speech, including on grounds of sex. we also must prevent disinformation from spreading. misinformation and online violence against women politicians are closely linked, since disinformation methods are often co—opted in misogynistic attacks. so in order to step up the fight against disinformation, the commission has published guidance on how online platforms and other relevant players should strengthen the code of practice on disinformation to become a more powerful instrument in fighting discrimination online. the proposal for the digital services act also introduces a number of measures to combat illegal content, including hate speech and incitement to violence. very large online platforms will have to assess if their systems are vectors for the spread of illegal content or have negative effects on fundamental rights. the european parliament has proven to be a robust partner in our fight against gender-based violence. your continued work and dedication to combat gender-based violence and gender-based cyberviolence is needed more than ever. so together we must ensure women can speak in public debates without having to fear violence or hate, online or offline for that matter. i thank you, the european parliamentarians, heartily for being a steadfast ally in our efforts to ensure a europe free from violence. (applause)
acting president of the council. mr president, thank you for this debate. it's become clear that many of us have received violent comments online, we've received sexist comments. but i would like to draw attention above all to the importance of protecting our young women, young women who are intervening in political life or those who aspire to do so. we must pave the way for the next generation to know greater equality. today's young women are the political leaders, the scientists, the journalists, the women of tomorrow, and we need them. we cannot allow cyber violence to become a commonplace and threaten our democracies, our freedoms, our rights, our lives. we have to ensure that the digital world is a place where rules and laws are to be followed. unfortunately, emerging data from many member states indicate that gender-based violence, domestic violence, intimate partner violence and other forms of violence, as well as harassment, both offline and online, have increased during the pandemic. when we talk about social recovery from this pandemic crisis, we cannot forget these aspects. when we talk about building our resilience in building a more sustainable, but also a more digital economy, we need to take these facts into account and adopt measures and instruments that allow for the full participation of women and girls in all areas and therefore also in politics. building our common digital future must be done with everyone and for everyone and must bring together our european institutions - council, commission and parliament - if we are to achieve concrete results in the fight against violence and gender inequalities. only together can we achieve results.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. gendered hate speech is a serious phenomenon that is rampant online and on social media platforms. hate speech is increasingly targeting women at an alarming rate, and public figures, such as politicians, are particularly vulnerable. the internet platforms must be held accountable and must in future have the same publishing responsibility as other media, such as newspapers. effective mechanisms for removing hate speech must be in place across all social media platforms. hate speech against women online is designed to silence women and girls. just as more and less common street harassment, depending on the country, seeks to restrict the freedom of movement of women and girls in cities and in society at large, online harassment seeks to silence women and girls who express themselves and their opinions or are socially active. women have hardened their skin to receive rude comments, even though they should not be. all the network of belittling and subjugation will end. there has to be a zero tolerance for all hate speech.
in writing. – violence against women in politics is rising and it is a clear threat to democracy and equal participation. women in politics are frequent targets of abuse and threats online, but social media companies and governments are not doing nearly enough to combat it. women in politics receive an overwhelming amount of online abuse, harassment, and gendered defamation via social media platforms. the eu and the members states need to press for more action and develop new standards for platform transparency and accountability that can help address the widespread toxicity that is currently undermining online political debate. it is important to take more responsibility for material distributed using their services, such as abusive messages sent via social media. if effectively designed and implemented, the eu’s digital services act will represent a step in the right direction. violence and abuse against women in politics, both online and offline, not only prevents women from standing for election, they drive those who have already been elected to leave politics early. it is crucial that we do all we can to remove the barriers to women’s representation in politics, including online threats and the experience of violence, abuse and harassment.
in writing. i agree with the commission: hate speech is widespread and has become almost normal. this is a frightening trend which we must combat by all means. no one has to accept or tolerate hate speech - online and offline.
the agenda includes the report by susana solís pérez, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on promoting gender equality in studies and careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem) (2019/2164 (ini)) (a9-0163/2021).
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank the rapporteur, ms susana solís pérez, the shadow rapporteur and the entire committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) for this excellent report. the european parliament and the european commission fully recognise equality between women and men as a strategic priority. the report welcomes the digital education action plan, which sets out a strategic approach to digital transformation in education and training, including the fight against the under—representation of girls and women in science, technology, engineering and maths (stem). in the digital sector, men still represent more than 80% of the workforce, and only one in three science, engineering and mathematics graduates are women. given the need to stimulate diversity, one of the actions of the new digital education action plan responds to the need to increase the participation of women in stem fields. the teaching of scientific and technical subjects is also a priority for cooperation projects in higher education under the erasmus+ 2021 work programme. ongoing work within the framework of the eu coalition in the field of science, technology, engineering and mathematics will be exploited in conjunction with the results of already—funded erasmus+ projects. the aim is to support the sharing of the best practices available in the framework of european university alliances and the establishment of national platforms in the field of science, technology, engineering and mathematics. this action will contribute to the development of new higher education programmes for engineering, information and communication technologies based on the science, technology, engineering, the arts and mathematics (steam) approach. steam constitutes a multidisciplinary set of educational approaches, breaking down traditional divisions between subjects and disciplines in order to link the teaching of stem and information and communication technologies to that of the arts, human sciences and social sciences. the covid—19 crisis has strengthened the stereotypical roles of women and men, and thus we need to foster the full talent pool and promote women’s role and participation in all fields and all levels, such as in management. the digital education action plan also addresses the ethical implications of artificial intelligence, including gender bias, by developing ethical guidelines on ai and data in education and training. the commission’s expert group responsible for developing the guidelines was recruited recently, and will launch guidelines in september 2022 as part of the back to school campaign, accompanied by awareness—raising activities. education plays an important role in combating the under—representation of women in the field of development of new technologies and research. the pisa survey shows no difference in the skills of boys and girls in science, but gender differences widen when young people enter university and choose specific subjects and careers. to help member states promote equality in education and training, a planned working group on equality and values in education and training will provide guidance for the use of gender—disaggregated data for the purposes of assessing policy reforms by the end of 2022. gender equality is in fact one of the priorities of the new european research area, and the horizon europe programme makes it one of its transversal principles. your report recognises the efforts made by the commission to encourage the participation of women in stem, in particular within the framework of the european institute of innovation and technology, while regretting the persistence of inequalities between women and men in terms of equal access to positions and funding within the european union. current efforts, with the support of the european institute of innovation and technology, and its knowledge and innovation communities, have helped to organise training activities for girls in primary, secondary and higher education in order to stimulate digital skills. the action is expected to reach 40 000 young female students. by introducing several new provisions in horizon europe, such as a new eligibility criteria, we want to bring change. from 2022, higher education and research institutions must put an action plan for gender equality in place to participate in the programme. among other initiatives, the women techeu programme, within the european innovation council, aims to foster the creation of tech startups by women and support women’s entrepreneurship. within the framework of the new european research area, we will develop, together with the member states, a talent platform which will go beyond the current euraxess platform and will pay particular attention to equality between women and men. the commission is also pleased with the marie skłodowska—curie actions, a programme for doctoral education and post—doctoral training, which encourages women to apply. women researchers represent more than 41% of the number of researchers in the programme. this percentage is even higher among doctoral candidates, at nearly 45%, and postdoctoral researchers, at nearly 42%, who are funded by the programme. so the gender dimension is an important selection criterion in the evaluation process. the programme also supports equal opportunities through the principle of equal pay for all beneficiaries, providing family allowances, maternity and parental leave and the possibility of part—time work for family or personal reasons for everyone. in addition, the commission has introduced new measures through the new framework programme in order to make this financial support fairer, more gender—friendly and more inclusive than it currently is. the commission remains committed to continue working with parliament in recognising equality between women and men as a strategic priority in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. we need to inspire girls and women to pursue stem education and careers. almost every aspect of our lives is permeated by technology. let us look at the developments in the field of information technology in recent months, which have enabled us to work as a parliament in the midst of the pandemic, the research in the field of natural sciences, which has given us the crucial key to combating the coronavirus pandemic with the development of vaccines, the connected car, the connected patient, smart homes. these are all achievements of stem professions, and the demand for skilled workers in stem fields, but also in the growing digital sector, is continuously increasing, and companies are increasingly looking for skilled employees. those who have been trained in a stem occupation are among the professionals of tomorrow, with many doors open to them and excellent career prospects. girls and women have to jump on this train. we must ensure that they find the conditions which will enable them to develop their talents accordingly. early and talented promotion for young women in stem must be expanded. girls must be introduced to stem through internships and projects in school - and why not in kindergarten? and we must ensure that women can successfully reconcile work and family life. this includes greater involvement of fathers and men in this area. as a trained carpenter, i know exactly what it feels like to have to prove yourself in a man's domain. and we need role models and mentors and mentors to inspire young women and girls to make their way in the field of sti and to end the outdated understanding of gender roles. i therefore hope that the commission and the member states will take up and address our suggestions and demands. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs susana solís pérez, and all those who have supported our report.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not encouraging girls and women to choose careers in stem is right, and of course, the role models are helpful. the report contains some correct approaches, but also some problematic ones. prejudice, gender gap, underrepresentation of women, stereotypes are repeatedly mentioned as obstacles to be removed. the report stresses the need to engage with relevant stakeholders and actors to address the plight of fewer women in stem professions. interestingly, the report lists all the actors and stakeholders in the report, except for the one that should be the focus: the women themselves. the report as a whole laments the many reasons why women are not successful in their careers. all these reasons are based exclusively on external factors which the women have no influence on. the report also calls for the establishment of a european women's rights organisation, the european women's foundation, which will be responsible for the implementation of the european women's rights act. a report that spans 20 pages, attesting to the helplessness of women, does not fight stereotypes, but celebrates and manifests them. the fact that the women aren't even asked shows very clearly that it's not about them. no, the main ideologues are really about building a beautiful new, colorful, carbon-neutral, gender-equitable tralala world, where people, as they are, are just a nuisance. i would ask you to stop trying to mold people to their delusional ideological notions. let's just be human again!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was about eight years old when i first felt deep shame at being a human child. during a break at a highway rest stop, a truck was parked. my childish curiosity led me to look between the bars, and i looked straight into the desperate eyes of a calf. on the floor, i remember, there was another one, trampled. i was so shocked, and i spent the rest of the ride asking my mother what kind of creatures we were that we would allow ourselves to do this. it's still a mystery to me that we could ever have built such a cruel, unhealthy system of mass animal husbandry. i'm so grateful for this petition, for this successful "end the cage age" petition. we in the green group are strongly in favour of ending caging for all animals by 2027 and we call on the commission and the member states to take the resolution seriously and to act at last.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 10 june 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the future eu funding of the euranet plus radio network by sabine verheyen, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-000036/2021 b9-0023/2021) (2021/2708 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the financing of euranet plus is another example of bureaucracy and competition made in brussels, with subsidies at taxpayer's expense. the eu parliament's committee on culture and education regrets that the eu commission's decision to award future grants following an open tender procedure was overlooked. that's true, but it's not the problem. according to wikipedia, euranet provides information on political, economic, cultural and social developments in the eu from a pan-european perspective. i call this "home and farm" coverage after the german model of public service broadcasting. the daily broadcasting time is between 30 and 60 minutes. with a budget of 2.2 million euros, this means that each minute of the programme is funded with a total of 12 000 euros. that's the value of a small car. at least the taxpayer would have some of that left. but the taxpayers are paying for propaganda that tells them, in a loop, how great the eu is. in addition, the promotion of a broadcasting structure which is now long outdated is about as useful as the promotion of vhs video libraries. but there is a bright spot: the resolution states that without the financial windfall from the eu taxation purse, the broadcaster would not be viable and would have to cease operations. there are problems that can be solved easily, and that's how we should do it: no promotion, no propaganda. problem solved.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 10 june 2021.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the violation of the united nations convention on the rights of the child and the use of minors by the moroccan authorities during the migration crisis in ceuta (2021/2747 ((rsp)) *. the president of the commission
i will check this question and come back to you.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we shall support this resolution because it rightly criticises what happened at the ceuta border. our spanish friends deserve the full support of this house and of all the peoples of europe, for they are defending the internal security of our member states at their borders. however, we should not forget one thing: the problems we have, the migration crisis we are in, is not morocco's fault - it is still ours. we are called upon to pursue a migration policy that protects our borders and sends a clear signal to the outside world: those who come illegally and without authorization have no chance of entering. no way, they say in australia. and no way is the signal we're missing the one that's actually encouraging the poor people to come. we need to change our own signals to the outside so that situations like this don't happen again. we must do two things with morocco: firstly, we must make it clear that we will not tolerate provocations, and secondly, we must show the moroccans that they are valued partners. the polisario is a political force, and it is the only force capable of provoking a crisis like the one in ceuta. and that's why the signal today: morocco, we remain connected to you, but we expect you to follow the rules. and the expectations of you: say no to illegal immigration!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the escalation of migration in ceuta has brought two things to our attention. on the one hand, the abuse of children in migration policy to promote state interests. this is unworthy and is a clear violation by morocco of the un convention on the rights of the child. here children are shamelessly and ruthlessly used as a weapon of migration. on the other hand, it also shows, once again, the complete failure of the eu in its migration policy. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu is totally dependent on other countries, be it morocco or turkey. the solution is simple: effective border controls and, at the same time, the rigorous return of illegal immigrants at the external borders. we must also return the boats with the illegals safely to their place of departure. finally, the so-called sea rescuers must be held accountable, for without this pull factor there would certainly not have been thousands of drownings. in the short term, the death toll in the mediterranean would be reduced to zero. if the migration weapon is used as a means of pressure, the eu must finally take a firm stand against it, impose effective sanctions and freeze development funds. it is quite simple, ladies and gentlemen: let us protect our borders and save precious lives at the same time! the only thing they have to do is to get up their game and show the political will to do so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. our solidarity goes to the citizens of ceuta, and our support here must go to the children who are being abused for political purposes. in ceuta today we see the problems that arise because we do not have a working eu migration policy. the eu and morocco have the same interests. and i am sure that with trade, economic cooperation and above all cooperation on labour migration, we can develop a win-win situation for the eu and for morocco. i would also like to see more proposals from the commission on how to focus on the issue of labour migration. because if we do not think about labour migration, we will not solve the problems of migration. but i am clear that the disregard for children's and human rights cannot be the basis for good cooperation, and i hope that the tensions that have arisen between spain and morocco will soon be resolved and that we will return to diplomatic cooperation, because morocco is and will remain a strategic partner for us.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the human rights situation in sri lanka is deteriorating dramatically. in particular, the anti-terrorism law targets ethnic and religious minorities. hundreds of people can be held without trial for up to two years in military-controlled camps. the government of sri lanka must repeal these discriminatory laws or replace them with legislation that is consistent with its international obligations. the commission has already made the repeal of the anti-terrorism act in 2017 a condition for sri lanka to regain preferential access to the eu internal market. for this, our trading partners must respect basic human rights. the eu is sri lanka's second largest export market. preferential access to the eu internal market is not unconditional. this year, sri lanka will be reviewed to see if it still meets the criteria. the commission must be clear: those who do not comply with the rules must not have any advantages. preferential access to the single market free of customs duties and taxes is a huge opportunity for economic progress for developing countries. this is trade that creates concrete opportunities. it is a pathway out of poverty and into self-determination for many people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. that is why it is so important that we as the eu take action when a trading partner does not meet very basic obligations. we cannot tolerate the undermining of our rules and values! the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. if we as the eu want to be a serious foreign policy power tomorrow, then we must live up to our responsibilities as an economic power today.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we wanted and want dialogue open and diverse, always has been. we want to bring citizens together, free organisations and ngos together. this is the best form of friendship between russia and the eu. but the russian government has given us a different message. they say civil society, yes, but not a free civil society. the dialogue is possible, but we are the ones who decide what dialogue is, says the kremlin. it is strange to see who is allowed to do everything here in our country - in germany, in europe - from the dialogue of civilizations to russia today and sputnik. we do not dictate who is wanted or not wanted in germany. but the others do. it is not the european ngos that the russian authorities do not want, but the rights and freedoms of their own citizens. and our message back is also clear: no one will dictate to us what democratic exchange and human rights are, but article 11 of the european convention on human rights, article 10 of the convention - these are not our wishes, this is international law.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in recent years, more than 80 laws, regulations and other regulations have been adopted in russia that substantially restrict freedom of expression, assembly and association and the exercise of the profession, in particular for journalists. the latest measures, including those published today, ensure that only loyal candidates can run for the duma elections. the pure democrat in the kremlin is making a lot of assurances because he rightly mistrusts his own people. on the way to the polls, disruptive organizations must be declared extremist. those who do not make it to exile in time will be captured like andrei pivovarov. at least he can't be seen from the outside. in the cascade of 'foreign agent', 'undesirable organisation' and 'extremist organisation', the label 'undesirable' is enough for foreign ngos to stop their activities. i express my solidarity with the forum of russian-speaking europeans, the centre for liberal modernity and the association for german-russian exchange. i am afraid they will not be the last to have to close down their activities there. i am very concerned, for example, about how long the german political foundations will be tolerated there or will be able to do meaningful work. let us support russian civil society with creative measures and let us use our mechanisms to sanction judges who arbitrarily make political judgments against the text and spirit of the russian constitution!
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we should stop being naive when we are dealing with autocrats like putin. standing by when they cross our red lines, the virus of autocratisation will only spread further. putin’s negative track record is long and events are not isolated: from invading georgia to direct involvement in the taking down of mh17. today, we are discussing the pivovarov case, another in a long line of eliminating opposition and political opponents before an election. we support the resolution and welcome the calls on the commission and the member states to increase direct support for civil society, human rights defenders and the independent media. we need to live up to our values and show the russian people that there is an alternative and that we are their friend. we have a problem with the putin autocracy, not with the russians. if we let down the people who fight for the values we hold sacred, we also allow the undermining of these same values to continue unopposed within the eu.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, as the meeting between the presidents of the united states and russia approaches, these are the words i would convey to mr putin in president biden’s place: president putin, you have transformed russia into a real threat to the free and democratic world. you continuously employ hybrid interference and malign actions of a highly destabilising nature. you even dare to occupy territories of sovereign neighbouring countries. you have turned russia into a putinland by prosecuting the opposition, poisoning your critics, closing down the independent media, depriving people of their right to freedom of expression. despite vast national resources and human capital, you have brought the russian the economy down to the level of developing countries. president putin, no matter how hard you try, please know that you will not undermine fundamental principles of the free world and you will not succeed in building the putin-wall between us and the russian people.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. at the end of may, the former head of the pro-western ngo open russia, pivowarov, was arrested in st. petersburg. days earlier, the russian government had banned three german ngos for endangering the constitutional order and internal security of russia. open russia was founded by mikhail khodorkovsky, who was convicted of embezzlement and money laundering. open russia and the german ngos promote western values, but also fundamentally challenge the rule of law, democracy and the constitution in russia. the sources of ngo funding remain unclear. the best of all possible worlds is certainly not in russia. but in today's germany, unpopular elections, like in thuringia, are ignored, the homes of migration-critical opposition politicians are searched, government politicians are appointed as supreme judges, major media are controlled by the government by law, and citizens are monitored by a total of 19 intelligence services. the gdr, on the other hand, needed only two. russia bans german ngos, germany refuses russian media licenses. when will the eu finally examine media freedom, the rule of law and democracy in germany and not only in hungary, poland and above all russia?
it is my duty to inform everyone that when you speak from your seat then you must wear a mask. don’t ask me why, but this is the rule.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals. in his recently published book, noam chomsky called the erosion of democracy the third great danger to mankind. in an interview he said - and i quote: 'the erosion of democracy does not sound as dangerous as the threat of nuclear war or environmental disaster. but she's dangerous. because only a living democracy, where citizens are engaged, engaged in debate, engaged in setting up programmes and engaged in putting pressure on politicians to implement them, can cope with the first two problems. other and that is why it is unacceptable that this legislation has now been introduced in the russian federation and that ngos and democrats of different colours, including those opposed to putin's rule, are being criminalised. and that is why the commemoration of the st petersburg dialogue is a useful institution, because it makes dialogue possible. but they threaten to become paper tigers, as does the work of german foundations in moscow and other cities of the russian federation, if they cannot implement their work, their cooperation with social, emancipatory ngos and partners, and they are put under fear and criminalization.
madam president, war is the biggest threat to mankind, peace is its biggest challenge. there can be no peace without respect for human rights. in russia, human rights are under attack. opposition leaders are poisoned or arrested without prospects of a fair trial. by attacking german ngos in berlin, putin now attacks the centre of political power in europe. how to respond? action speaks louder than words. respect for human rights as a fundament for world peace must have priority in every aspect of our actions, regardless of economic consequences. the west has to be united and determined in order to put a halt to the misconduct of putin. we have to pay our fair share to nato in order to maintain our military capacity. our message to putin must be consistent and clear: we do not accept nor deal with leaders who go against the people.
i have to say, madam president, mr. beck, i'm glad you gave your great speech here. your great speech in this respect, it makes it clear that we live in a europe where democracy is highly valued, where even you are elected here, you can sit here and announce this without having to fear - in russia, for example, you would have to fear, if you said the opposite, to be among the 383 prisoners who are politically persecuted and since may - this is the number that became known in may - are sitting in prison there under very bad conditions. the number is likely to be much higher. you can say that in this country without any consequences. your speech was a disgrace to our europe, which has won the nobel peace prize. of course, this resolution which we have on the table is exactly the right one. of course, we must also have a dialogue with russia. i am a supporter of dialogue, there is no question. but putin is not russia. russia is many millions of honorable, upright citizens, and there will be a time after putin, after tsar putin. russia is a dictatorship. and these are exactly the right measures that have been written down and defined there. but we in the west should also stop carrying out provocations such as the nato exercises on the russian border. we don't need to rattle with swords; they're too loud anyway. we should rather rely on dialogue, hold talks and see that we shape our future europe peacefully.
i have to say, madam president, the repression of opposition and ngos in russia is getting worse. putin wants to maintain his power by the most brutal methods. the european parliament we will not look the other way. we will not forget andrei pivovarov, dmitri gudkov and alexei navalny. we will not forget the people who fought for the independence of ukraine. we will not be silent about their unacceptable detention, torture and attempted murder. we stand with russia's pluralism, with those who stand for freedom and democracy and risk their lives for it. we stand behind the ngos that the putin regime brands as undesirable organizations and bans their work. we are committed to civil society dialogue, as is the case with the centre for liberal modernity and others. all eu institutions and member countries must take a clear stand against the authoritarian russian regime. the eu needs a strong common foreign policy that unambiguously stands with those who in russia and around the world are fighting for the values of freedom that our eu stands for.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let's talk about autism today. what do we know about autism? often, very little. because autism is invisible. but often you have images in your head of people - those are the ones who are highly gifted, who never laugh, who are a bit strange, who walk easily stoically through society. oh, and then there was this movie, rain man with dustin hoffman. that's when autism comes to mind. that's it, then. but let's start with some numbers. there are an estimated 5 million people in europe with an autism spectrum disorder. and no, they're not autistic. people with autism, even those with above-average educational levels, are disproportionately affected by unemployment. the employment rate is below 10%, well below the rates of 47% for people with disabilities and 72% for people without disabilities. they are often part-time or in low-paid jobs, in low-skilled jobs or in assisted living facilities, workshops for the disabled. the road to the world of work is blocked, as it so often is, by being different. people with autism primarily have a perceptual disorder of their environment that makes it difficult for them to interpret other people's emotions. but that doesn't mean they want to live in a different world and be isolated. as the author of the report on equality in employment and occupation, which was adopted by a large majority at the beginning of the year, we call on member states to do more to promote inclusion in the first labour market. for decades, eu member states have preferred to place disabled people in separate institutions for reasons of cost and lack of political will and visibility. oh, god, it was so convenient. the exclusion, confinement and even murder of disabled people has a long, sad and taboo history in europe. nobody knows. the separation of people with disabilities from the so-called majority society is contrary to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its associated article 27. over a decade ago, the eu signed the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, making a clear commitment to equal participation in working life with equal rights for workers and for people without disabilities. instead of providing a one-way path, we must promote individual career paths, including highly skilled jobs. this is what my report calls for: more support and advice for people with disabilities, people with autism, but also for businesses. there is a great lack of targeted support, especially for people with autism. according to a 2018 survey by the national autistic society in the uk, there is a lack of adequate support. 42% of autistic adults say they need help with their work, but only 12% get it. principle 4 of the european pillar of social rights is dedicated to active support for employment, as everyone has the right to timely and tailor-made support to improve their prospects for employment and self-employment. and that's the principle we need to ensure, especially now in times of pandemics. dismissals and the withdrawal of support services have dramatic consequences for autistic people. in the post-pandemic era, it is important to take stock of the new online work practices that autistic workers can benefit from and could help secure their employment. the new eu resilience and investment plan must take into account the needs of people with autism and their families. financial support, such as tax credits, must be provided to employers to enable them to provide the necessary equipment and support for teleworking when needed. i can learn and i can work is the slogan of the autism europe campaign. every person in society, whether autistic or not, has certain strengths that can be harnessed to advance in education and to successfully access employment. it just needs targeted support. we also call for binding legislation on appropriate workplace arrangements which take account of the needs of autistic workers. here we need clear eu guidelines to end barriers to access to information and communication, but also a real harmonisation of the concept of 'disability'. what does this mean in terms of safeguarding and ensuring freedom of movement for all in the eu? we must see disabled people as customers, as guests, and not as a burden, as a cost-saving measure. access to education is a key factor for inclusion. most autistic people with high support needs are not in formal education, employment, training or are not recorded in statistics because they live in institutions. the level of support for autistic learners in inclusive education at all levels is limited and, if available, often inadequate. what we always find is that discrimination in the world of work cannot be considered in isolation, but is always linked to discrimination in other areas of life. if we promote inclusion in other areas, this also benefits the labour market. if you already have a friend at school who has an autism disorder, who has a disability, you will also see the autistic coworker as a colleague. as the european union, we must remind the eu member states to fulfil their obligations towards people with disabilities and autism in all areas. this year, the european commission presented its new strategy for people with disabilities. the commission will present a report on the implementation of the reform of the cap in the member states in the course of the year. individuals with autism disorder must be specifically considered. the legislative process must involve people with autism and their organisations, such as autism europe, actively. the european parliament's eu disability intergroup is therefore also calling for a separate section in the european parliament to examine the uncrc. however, the major bottleneck and gap for strong eu action on inclusion remains the lack of a legal framework on non-discrimination. what about the anti-discrimination directive, the fifth? for 13 years now it has been blocked in the council, among others by germany. thank you for nothing in that case. that is why i am always calling for the blockade of the fifth anti-discrimination directive to be lifted, because the blockade in the european council is simply a disgrace to the european union.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the world health organization defines autism as a person with a particularly profound developmental disorder. and despite this profound developmental disorder, autistic people have many strengths -- strengths that could be a great asset in the job market. these strengths include, for example, an unusual way of thinking that can lead to innovative solutions, rational decision-making, high intelligence and spatial logic, an above-average memory, honesty, sensitivity, high motivation and reliability, a thorough and precise way of working, a very good understanding of numbers and good analytical thinking. and despite all these strengths, 90 percent of autistic adults are unemployed, unemployed. this is a scandal, this is a real scandal. there's a lot of research to be done here, because we know far too little about this disease, and what little we know, we communicate far too poorly. most autistic people don't see themselves as disabled people, and many employers simply don't have enough information. getting a job, getting an interview, is becoming a huge problem, because the answers that autistic people give are not really the norm. employers sometimes think that there's someone sitting across from you from another planet. the working conditions, the premises must be adapted. for example, open-plan offices are absolutely impossible. then the determination of the degree of disability would be an important signal, an important possibility. there are. but first of all, the autistic person has to want it, and second of all, it's extremely difficult to determine in this particular area. so there's a lot to do. we need to do more research, and we need to talk about it more. but there is hope. and the covid crisis has actually done something good: we're talking more and more about home office, and autistic people are particularly computer- and it-sensitive and have tremendous skills in that. and here, the home office offers a huge opportunity and opportunity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the importance of this subject is already being recognised by the fact that we are sitting here on thursday afternoon discussing this subject; it was supposed to be tuesday or wednesday. this is a very important subject, and we can see this from the fact that there is a very, very uniform opinion on this subject and that we are all on the same page as regards what you, commissioner, should and can do here. the fact that i'm standing here is also a sign that the issue is not being seen as that important. no one from the id faction wanted to talk about it. and then i agreed to talk to my colleagues here about this. it's a bit of a signal, an important thing that i can't quite understand. because this topic is about people who are just like you and me, created in the image of god, all created with equal dignity and worth. and they deserve our concern, our care. who are these people? i'll give you three examples. an architectural firm wanted to hire an autistic architect. they were looking forward to it. you set up the office she was supposed to come to. they've got it beautifully furnished, a beautiful bright office with plants and so on. when she came in, they were all excited, thinking, "this is good, she'll be happy about this". but the new colleague came to them very unhappy and said: "i cannot work in this office. don't you have another office here? other then they searched and then they found a storeroom with no light, simple, no windows. and then she said to them, "there's got to be a neon lamp in there in a certain color, and then i can work". and that's what they did. this is of course quite problematic in view of the regulations that exist. but they dared. and this architect was so effective at her job that all the other people who worked with her got into real trouble. they had to hire people to keep them employed because they were so effective. a second example: a mathematician, a very successful man, wanted to work in public service. and he's always failed at it because he can't work during the day. he can only work at night. then you have to create something like that. we must then create the conditions for him to work. and a third example from a simpler man: he worked in a landscaping business, and it was very difficult to keep him employed, until one day he realized, "okay, i'm very good at laying paving stones, such beautiful patterns for roads, paths, alleys and so on". and he was so successful at this job that this company was then overwhelmed with orders for this paving. he did it with such meticulousness and precision that they were all very enthusiastic. it took a little longer, yes, but then you have to deal with it. you have to find a solution. and what's important is that you find really low-audience jobs for these people, who can then work in a low-audience environment. that's often not in line with the regulations, and that's the point. we have to learn, and i think the eu has to learn, because it makes so many regulations on certain things. and then things are done that ultimately make life difficult for the disabled. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the disabled are not discriminated against. and that made them uncompetitive. and things like this can't really happen anymore. we also need to be careful that when it comes to disabled people, we really see them as people from whom we can all learn. i can learn from any handicapped person. i would like to tell you a little story that happened to me here in brussels. when i walk from my apartment to parliament in the morning, there is always a beggar, an elderly man, sitting at a bakery. maybe he wasn't that old, he just looked very old. and he always gave me a big smile, and he kind of gave me something every morning where i said, "man, this man is kind of important to me". i used to give him things and he was happy. we'd have a little chat, a few words. but i looked forward to this man every morning when i met him. i made the money and gave it to him. now he's been gone for six, seven, eight weeks. i don't know what happened to him, and i'm missing something. i realize we need these people. we need our handicapped people too. and we must learn to deal with them in the right way, to appreciate them, to value them and to do everything to enable them to live in dignity and with dignity.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values are common to the member states in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. this is the case, ladies and gentlemen, with article 2 of the treaty on european union, which reminds us that our union is not just an economic and monetary union, but a union of values, values whose abandonment and negation have led to the conflicts that have torn this continent apart in the last century. today, these values are trampled underfoot. they are trampled underfoot when, at the union's borders, people who knock on our doors are violently turned away or locked up in undignified conditions. they are trampled underfoot when, within the european union, these pillars of democracy, the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary and the pluralism of the media, are being torn down one after the other. they are trampled underfoot as tens of millions of europeans are pushed into poverty and precariousness. they are trampled underfoot when, in the name of the fight against terrorism or now health security, our fellow citizens are subjected to ever closer surveillance by their states. the latest insult to the values of the union: the restrictions on freedom of expression deliberately targeting the lgbti community in hungary. the violations of the union's values are not new, but they are now reaching alarming proportions. why would you do that? because the european commission, the guardian of the treaties, has not yet dared to move from talk to action. the council, in the name of preserving a facade of unity, has preferred to protect its members from pressure. ladies and gentlemen, i think it is clear that the next council meeting should have as its sole agenda item respect for the values of the union. if a house is not able to maintain its foundation, it is in danger of collapse.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before speaking about the next council meeting, i have listened carefully to the words of my predecessors on the subject of individual freedoms and rights. i fully share their views and therefore ask them to respect the rights of everyone, because those who impose a health curfew on legitimately elected persons and minorities cannot speak of democracy. so i invite you to show your child that you hold these values dear. we have been discussing these very important issues for some time now at the next european council, but unfortunately we have not been able to find any concrete solutions to help us solve these problems. one of the problems that is most acute today and that we have been discussing for a long time is that of irregular immigration, and i am sorry to say that the approach we have taken is still the one that will not allow us to find a solution, because to focus on the issue of redistribution is to refuse to solve the problem. redistribution - and we've learned this in the seven years now that we've been debating this issue by focusing on this aspect - is the wrong approach for two reasons: the first reason, we've all understood this, i think, here and in europe, is that it's politically toxic, that nobody wants it. it's not wanted by governments that are on the right, it's not wanted by governments that are on the left or in the center. no one wants it, so it can't be a solution. the second point concerns a technical issue: if we look at the demographic evolution of the african continent over the next 20 or 30 years, we can see very clearly that redistribution cannot be a sustainable solution in the long term. we cannot accept tens of millions of refugees from this continent in the next few years. we must also look with some realism at what is happening outside the european union, where progressive governments, or so-called progressive governments, have understood that the right approach is to regulate tightly, to focus on fighting illegal immigration. the fact that the council is putting the issue of migration on its agenda today means once again that the problem is not really being addressed, that it is not about migrants but about stopping illegal immigration. i hope that today there are different signals on this subject. the bilateral talks between my country's prime minister, mario draghi, and angela merkel seem to be going in this direction: perhaps someone has finally realized that talking about redistribution is not solving the problem but we need to focus on our external borders and stopping illegal immigration.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the agenda of the upcoming council. let me focus on my area of interest, on russia. i quote president ursula von der leyen: ‘history, geography and people bind us with russia’. for some eu member states, geography is more difficult in terms of the relationship with russia than for others. so, the policy vis—à—vis russia requires the specific solidarity of all member states. in terms of history, i would like to remind my colleagues that recently russia launched an information campaign – i would call it an information war – against some eu member states, basing it on history – a common and very difficult history. and people. there are good examples of this bond, particularly andrei sakharov, because of his cv and our prize. but there are bad examples, like gerhard schröder because of nord stream 2. we have to take this into account. on migration, i welcome the relaunch of the malta declaration. but i would like to remind colleagues that there are also other directions and, in particular, the smuggling of migrants by lukashenko, on the instigation probably of the kremlin, to lithuania, making the situation of that country extremely dire.
thank you, i remind the members that the use of flags or any other form of banners is not permitted by our rules.
mr. president, i have to ask you... all the allegations made in this house, in today's debate, by governments, by the heads of the eu institutions, are sad and shameful, because they are based on false allegations. the recently adopted hungarian draft law protects the rights of children, guarantees the rights of parents, and does not cover the rights of people over 18 years old related to sexual orientation, so it does not contain any discriminatory element. the hungarian law is based on the third paragraph of article 14 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. under that provision of the charter, the right of parents to provide their children with an education in accordance with their religious, philosophical or pedagogical convictions must be respected. i would urge you not to publish political opinions without an impartial investigation. read it, ladies and gentlemen, before you speak. and keep your hands off our children!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what do we see ahead? what should the council be thinking of when we talk about the malta declaration? a difficult situation in the states around us. the impact of the pandemic, conflicts that persist or flare up, increasing arrivals on the different routes, especially in the central mediterranean. greece, italy, spain, malta, cyprus, the canary islands, which are sending helpful signals and rightly point out that solidarity is at the heart of the common asylum and migration policy and that it is rightly and must be at the heart of the new pact, along with effective border control and consistent returns. we have a declaration from 2019 that could have been a first blueprint, a boost, if more member states had taken it up. what we do not see is enough movement among the member states. there are those who, because they are not concerned, retreat or go straight to the fundamental opposition; there are member states - always the same ones - which take the initiative and all too often run into walls. in the meantime, the member states are shouldering the burden on behalf of all the others. it is right and important to revive the malta declaration. but it can only be the first step towards a reliable and lasting solution. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the pandemic is receding, summer is coming, and as every summer, the numbers of people attempting the perilous journey across the mediterranean sea to europe are rising again. people looking for a better life. and i think we can all agree that we need a holistic solution to asylum and migration policy. a holistic solution means, for me, that we need clear rules for legal immigration to europe as well. and a comprehensive solution also means that we need solidarity with the southern member states. but until we have that solution - and ladies and gentlemen, until the council blocks it - we shall not have it. until we have it, we shall need to revive the valletta declaration. because it helps us in situations like this - where ships in the mediterranean are waiting for rescued people to be unloaded somewhere, to be taken somewhere - that at such moments they are not blocked, as was the case with the maersk etienne, which has been waiting 38 days for a port to open to take refugees. we need another solution, and the member states must help us with that too, and malta must help us and italy must help us. and i expect the council to move here and revive this malta declaration.
i would also like to give the floor now to mrs bentele and mr neuser, who have been asked to speak under rule 159 (4) of the rules of procedure, on their report on the role of eu development cooperation and humanitarian aid in the aftermath of the covid-19 pandemic.
i'm the reporter. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. my colleague neuser and i were tasked with studying the impact of covid19 on developing countries and formulating implications for international cooperation. covid-19 has basically all the effects of developed countries, but in a much more severe form: health exceptions and deficiencies have led to many essential health services being cut off in developing countries, such as routine vaccinations and medical care for women. school closures, which affected 1.6 billion children, often meant that children, and especially girls, would not return to school, but would now be working or married. the disruption of supply chains and the absence of tourism have led to a significant increase in hunger and poverty. so we have a lot of issues that we've made good progress on back on the agenda: better health care, universal education, food security. these priorities will have to shape the programming of european funds in the coming months. but we also saw some positive things: the new 'team europe' approach, which closely coordinated european aid with that of the member states, was a good initiative. the eu has also been a major contributor to the international vaccine procurement alliance covax. covid-19 shows us once again how closely the health of us europeans is connected to that of the other 7.3 billion people in the world. covid-19 can only be defeated by working together!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the green vision for the european cohesion policy is to put the people at the centre of our policy. we see the economy, the social programmes and even climate protection as a means to do exactly that: to support and improve the life of europeans, of all europeans. and this life happens in the regions. it’s the regions that are the place for social security, for fair chances and for political and individual self-determination. the cohesion policy that we discuss today is a big step towards this green vision. we made it possible to support climate neutrality and a sustainable economy. we made it almost impossible to waste european money, either by destroying nature or by feeding into corruption. and we brought people together. we said individual citizens should make the decisions in their regions. however, we are still not finished because a ‘do no significant harm’ rule is not a ‘do no harm’ rule. and not a decrease of funds is not an increase that we urgently need. and to almost make it impossible to spend money on corruption is not making it impossible, so we still have work to do. cohesion policy, though, has always brought people together, has made security and solidarity and equality in europe possible. we want security, we want solidarity, and we want unity in europe and so we want better cohesion policy. today we will celebrate the cohesion policy proposal that we have today. but for tomorrow we will continue to work to improve the life of the european citizens.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. since we 're in the middle of the european championship: imagine 27 teams playing in a league based on common rules. now one team says, "we want to play in this league, but we don't like some of the rules". and she starts breaking those rules. imagine if this team continued to receive subsidies from the europa league, just like those who follow the rules. and the amazing thing is, the referee lets them play. it sounds weird, right? we are in a similar situation in the european union, and that is why the eu commission's report on the rule of law deserves all the attention. but we see room for improvement. this report must be given a go and that means clear, country-specific recommendations for each country. this is a must. we see this in practice. it's about our values, and that's important. and last but not least, i hope that at the future conference we will also get concrete suggestions on how we can improve the tool, so that we have clear rules on the field that are respected by everyone.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. rarely has a report been so far removed from reality as this one. in the last 30 years, no year has seen more restrictions on fundamental rights in eu countries than this year - the fundamental right to freedom of association, the fundamental right to freedom of profession and, of course, the fundamental right to freedom of movement. no year has seen more abuses of state power by police brutality than 2020 against the yellow vests or lockdown critics - especially in germany. and there has never been a year when google and facebook have been so brutally censored of unpopular opinions under pressure from governments as 2020. we all remember: when donald trump said that the covid-19 virus may have originated in wuhan, it was denounced as fake news and all related reports were filtered by google and facebook. now even the washington post is of that opinion! what connects these three points? first of all, they're not in the report. and secondly, the eu has never done anything about it. fundamental rights are about as well protected in the hands of the eu as the rights of the sausage are with the dog.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we in the european parliament are in favour of a european perspective for bosnia and herzegovina. but we also know that we have a long way to go. one of the many construction sites is the ethno-proportion, which already separates children and young people in their school years. often, subjects such as history, geography, mother tongue are taught separately in bosnian, serbian and croatian. the so-called 'two schools under one roof' principle, whereby children are taught completely separately, is also becoming more and more established. in practice, this does not just tear apart friendships. it prevents us from learning together about the past and building a future together. the s&d group believes that education is a key element in building a society based on shared values and objectives. dividing even the youngest is feeding the soil for ethnic tensions, hatred, and violence. but there is hope. more and more students are resisting being separated from their friends. they protest. and even when they are told by some politicians that they should not engage in politics, but rather "go to the disco" they do not relent. and in jajce, he's already succeeded. and it is precisely this generation, a vigilant civil society, that will lead bosnia and herzegovina into a european future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you really want to admit bosnia to the eu? a country with a 20 percent unemployment rate, a 35 percent youth unemployment rate? a country that ranks 111 out of 180 on the corruption index? a country that is likely to be stuck in the eu's gutter for decades? in order to bring bosnia's rule of law up to eu standards, the eucommission has paid almost €3.8 billion to the country since 2007 of which my country, germany, alone, half a billion. nevertheless, thanks to corrupt networks, bosnia is still a transit country for illegal migrants to the eu. it is madness to want to admit such an unstable country to the eu! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have been elected by our citizens to represent their interests. the admission of bosnia is the exact opposite!
the committee on development and cooperation has adopted a number of amendments. mr president, i would also like to begin by thanking all the colleagues who have worked on this resolution. this has been a long-standing work that we have all done and that we are defending. during this health crisis, we have seen a worrying regression in women's rights. the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic and associated restrictions have negatively impacted women's access to healthcare, including sexual and reproductive health services, and exacerbated existing structural gender inequalities. a wide range of obstacles to sexual and reproductive health and rights remain in the european union, particularly for women from ethnic minorities and vulnerable groups. this is why, in the report, we introduced age-appropriate sexuality education in schools to educate our young people to develop a sexuality that ensures their fulfillment. our resolution defends women's rights. in order to achieve the elimination of gender-based violence, such as female genital mutilation, which has increased in my member state during the lockdown, it is undeniable that sexual and reproductive health and rights must be placed at the centre of human rights debates. we therefore call on all european countries to legislate and respect the istanbul convention. our resolution covers all aspects of sexual health. it is by introducing an intersectional perspective that we can overcome the obstacles faced by a large majority of women from marginalised groups and thus guarantee the human rights of all women in europe and the rest of the world. it is therefore up to the member states and the institutions of the european union to guarantee sexual and reproductive rights which take into account the needs of women and girls. (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, let's go forward with unwavering support for the right to health of women. articles 35 and 51: abortion is a human right. their denial is a violation of human rights and a form of violence against women. failure to legalize abortion, according to this report, erodes democracy. there should be no democracy in malta. paragraph 37: conscientious objection constitutes a violation of women's rights and a denial of medical care. is it democratic to deny doctors the exercise of basic human rights? we should never have gotten this far. without legal logic, breaking values and giving a blow to the universal declaration of human rights. abortion is not a human right. it may be a legal right enshrined in some codes, but it is not a human right. only human rights are those in the declaration established in 1948, the universal declaration of human rights. conscientious objection, recognized in this text, is. do you really think that questioning that empowers women? do you really think that this strengthens europe and democracy? look, handing out charters of rights, being addicted to being right, sending to the galleys those who do not think like you, imposing and winning instead of convincing and agreeing, or ideologising human rights no longer help europe or democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, citizens of europe, the european union is a great country. 50 percent of people in europe can get pregnant unwanted. yes, it can happen, and it's a personal disaster to be unwanted pregnant. and in deciding whether to continue a pregnancy or not, there is only one really good preventive measure - only one! that is good social policy. a good social policy and a promise to women: you will continue to have a good job. the promise to women is that we're going to make sure that there are child care facilities, that there are parenting sessions and so on. a good social policy is the only thing that really works as a prevention of abortion and that really fits europe. and what doesn't help and doesn't affect? that's the ban on abortion. this is the no-scouting rule. this is the ban on access to contraceptives. that's the prohibition of free will. all this doesn't help. it doesn't really help. europe ladies and gentlemen of europe! europe is a promise of basic values. europe is a promise above all for women. a promise that society will treat them with respect. and how is respect shown? respect means that in a difficult decision, society is on your side! respect means that society accepts the woman's decision as the final one! respect means that we don't decide for women, but that we recognize and value their decision. this is europe to me. this is europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has been a champion of humanity for a long time, but today it is being taught a lesson. under the pretext of strengthening women's rights, the matić report actually wants to declare abortion a human right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in a 2011 judgment, the ecj made it clear that a person is a person from the moment of conception. this report explicitly calls for one of the much-vaunted european values in the future to be that the eu guarantees the killing of a human being as an inalienable human right, and thus establishes a justiciable claim to the killing of a human being. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. colleagues, please reconsider! reject this inhumanity. i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of the views of the european parliament in this matter.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! the right to life is the fundamental right from which all other rights are derived. we're alive because our mothers made the decision to give us a chance. today, you believe abortion is a way of life? have you seen a picture of a baby with an ultrasound at six, seven, eight months, or even earlier? a beating heart that wants to live? did you see that? and you gentlemen? today, the author of the report recognizes abortion as a way to eliminate an unwanted problem at every stage of pregnancy. are you proud of that? i cry when i listen to you. i'm ashamed of you. abortion is not a way, it's not a method of contraception. it's a mother's tragedy and a child's murder. it was and it is. that's why i'm asking you, i'm asking you hopelessly, to support the ecr resolution. the right to life is a member state's responsibility, as the commissioner, who recently became a grandmother, has said many times. i congratulate you on that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we feminists know that we have to fight for the right to control our bodies and our sexuality. in 2014, we lost a very important vote by a few votes because the right-wing conservatives pushed us back and won with their misogynist votes. and that's when i decided, along with a few others, that we weren't going to lose another vote. this parliament will stand up for women's rights, for us to have control over our own bodies, for abortion rights and for lgbtq rights. we're gonna have that right. we should have the right to decide if and when we want to have children. young people should have the right to sex education, lgbtq rights should be taken for granted. and every woman, every single one of them, shall have the right to safe and legal abortions. now we are here with a report again which sets out precisely these rights. and what does the right do? they'll attack again. no, they shouldn't. no, this is not for women. but we're not buying it! we will not allow you to trample on our rights. we stand up for our sisters in poland, malta and everywhere else where our rights are trampled by you. we're not backing down again.
the commission has already done so. christian values are the basis of my political conviction. for me, my party, my group, the protection of unborn life is a top priority, as is the freedom of choice of doctors and medical staff, who are not at our disposal. they must not be forced to act contrary to their personal convictions. in my own country, germany, i believe that the law on the impunity of abortion is correct. talk to a woman who has been raped and is struggling with the pain and feeling unable to bear the child. we can't leave these women alone. we can't criminalize these women either. on the contrary, we must stand by them. and i could name other difficult life situations. we don't have time for that. in conclusion, i would like to express my regret that this important report on sexual and reproductive health has unfortunately been diverted to the less important issues.
for the greens/efa group mr president, in nairobi we committed ourselves to creating the conditions to accelerate women's rights, i.e. the empowerment of women and girls and the fight against violence against women, including unwanted pregnancies, the fight against early school leaving, as the young people asked us to do, so that women and girls can enjoy their rights, including sexual and reproductive health. we must support the outcome of the nairobi summit to accelerate the implementation and financing of the action programme. we need to focus on finding viable solutions with the communities concerned to achieve gender equality, sexual and reproductive health. we also need to ensure effective and inclusive participation of adolescents in all stages of decision-making. it is therefore important to promote sex education that promotes their development, as the young people asked us to do during our mission in nairobi.
mr president, commissioner, minister, representatives of the european council, i believe that the strong defence of women's rights and our fight to eliminate all forms of discrimination in political, economic, social, educational and health matters is a prerequisite and not just an obligation for all of us in the european parliament and the institutions of the european union, but a supreme task. i believe that the time has come for the european union to finally take a leading role in this direction in defending the rights of women - not just european women, but women of the land, all over the planet. the european union has a duty, by virtue of its principles and declarations, to do so here and now. it is a challenge today, at this time when we are discussing the defence of women's rights, that the european union does not take any action against those countries which violate them. the european council is currently discussing the question of financing and support for turkey, which has withdrawn from the treaty of istanbul. i will also be calling on all women to participate in shaping policies for a european union with a central role for women, through the conference on the future of europe - a historic decision of the european parliament and the european union.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office, the uncompromising defence of individual rights, in particular the rights enshrined in the nairobi summit on combating maternal death, family planning, gender-based violence or harmful practices against women and girls, is a decisive step towards our being better able to meet the 2030 sustainable development goals in an increasingly complex world. we must also make the next decade the decade of gender equality and women's rights. the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic have further limited access to sexual and reproductive health education services, exacerbated the problem of discrimination and violence against women and girls. we must ensure that every person has full control and the right to decide, in a free and responsible way, on issues related to health, sexuality, sexual and reproductive rights without discrimination, coercion and violence. finally, it is essential that the european union remains committed to the principles of the nairobi summit and that global europe is implemented with a view to promoting the various dimensions of the value of women, the assertion of their rights and the promotion of gender equality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. european development policy is guided by the un sdgs. the fifth objective, gender equality, is particularly important to me today and beyond. we must give more weight to the promotion of women in development policy. because women are the real pearls, especially in africa, and the strong, reliable constant for the cohesion and development of their families. in africa, for example, 80 percent of the food is produced by women. they are the backbone of the african economy, whether it be agriculture, trade or retail. this is why universal education, gender equality, healthcare and education for girls and women must finally be a top priority for our partner countries. this includes the prevention of maternal mortality and the fight against violence and discrimination. the nairobi summit should speed up the achievement of these objectives. but it is also clear to me as a christian that the protection of life must not be undermined. there is a right to life, even for the unborn child.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by jytte guteland on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the achievement of climate neutrality and amending regulation (eu) 2018/1999 (european climate law) (com ((2020) 0080) c9-0077/2020 2020/0036 ((cod)) (a9-0162/2020). i would remind members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words or acceptance of blue cards in any of the debates of this session. as in the past, there will also be contacts from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all i want to thank jytte guteland and all the other colleagues who i have had the honour to work with in the last one and a half years. we all started here in 2019 when hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets and they asked us to take the climate emergency seriously. they made the eu elections the first climate election, and they had a clear demand: listen to science and implement the paris agreement. what does it mean? it means to limit global temperature rise to well below 2°, but actually to do everything we can to limit it to a 1.5° temperature rise. what we have on the table now with the climate law, science tells us that it will lead to a global temperature rise between 2° and 3°. so it clearly fails the paris agreement. but these are not just numbers we are voting on today. we are voting on people’s lives, on our own lives, on huge consequences for nature on this planet. a leak from the ipcc yesterday says that already 2° exposes 420 million more people to extreme deadly heatwaves. heatwaves like in 2018 killed in europe thousands of people. therefore, the german constitutional court tells us that it is our duty to limit global temperature rise to 1.5° because the climate crisis will infringe on our future human rights. colleagues, is it too much to ask that my generation, or the generation of my daughter, will have the same freedom as the generation of my parents had? i don’t think so. therefore, we greens will vote against this climate law because it fails to keep the promise of the paris agreement. colleagues it pains me. it pains me because we failed and it pains me because the next years are the most important ones to stop the climate crisis. but also, colleagues, don’t be afraid. we won’t stay silent the next years. we will fight hard in europe to make your upcoming legislation, mr timmermans, fit for the 1.5° temperature goal, and we want to use emissions trading to phase out coal by the year 2030. and we need to finally cut co2 emissions from cars by phasing out the combustion engine by the same year. we will fight to make all upcoming elections climate elections, so that the political roadblocks by the council cannot continue, and they will not be able to stop the climate ambitions of parliament any more. we are the greens. we are the force to implement the paris agreement. we are ready because the people are ready – ready to save the climate and to create a better world for all.
before we continue the debate, i shall open the first round of votes today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 9.30 to 10.45. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 10.45. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by mrs jytte guteland (a9-0162/2020).
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i reject the climate bill as a cornerstone of the new political creed, which has long since moved away from the human being and his well-being as its central concern. and that means at the same time the final adoption of any kind of realpolitik. i therefore tabled an amendment rejecting the european climate law. i do not have any illusions about this. this motion will not get much support in this house. but i'm going to use this opportunity to give you an explanation, a why. based on controversial principles such as the exclusively anthropogenic climate emergency and the scientifically unproven but political thesis of co2 as the sole driver of climate change, co2 reduction is being pursued with almost childish religious fervor using completely inadequate methods. the negative effects of this policy, which is disastrous for all the industrialized nations, are simply ignored and are subsequently tried to be controlled by regulations. the law is destroying millions of jobs - over 400 000 in the automobile industry in germany alone - while the supposedly booming future of renewable energy is being squandered. a market which, according to a rough estimate, has to be kept alive artificially with some 650 billion euros of taxpayers' money each year. renewable energy sources, which contrary to the so-called world saving fairy tales will create many more problems. this includes land use and environmental degradation both in the extraction of raw materials and in the disposal of many toxic and complex compounds. we also risk losing a stable energy supply if, in the opinion of the co2 purists, we are to rely in future on volatile renewables as much as possible. the battery technology that is urgently needed is still far from being commercialized and even technologically advanced. the result is therefore a further rise in energy prices and an unknown degree of energy poverty. i therefore call on you to return to a policy which protects our economic prosperity and is also the basis for the environmental protection which is so important.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in november 2019, we declared a climate emergency. shortly afterwards, a unanimous commitment to climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest failed in the council. today, just a year and a half later, we're voting on the climate act. for the first time, the goal of chemical neutrality is enshrined in law. yes, i would have liked a more ambitious mid-term target for 2030. yes, i wish natural sinks could not be counted towards the 2030 target. yes, i would have liked to see every member state become climate neutral by 2050. we have had to make painful concessions on these important points. but there are also important achievements: with the introduction of the eu's greenhouse gas budget and the new climate science advisory board, the 'listen to the science' motto is being embedded in climate policy. these instruments can be important levers to get the eu on track in the future. this climate law is not perfect. but we can use it to make hard-won, concrete progress on climate change in the institutions, because every tenth of a degree counts. anyone who rejects this climate bill risks falling back on the old politics. the climate bill was just the beginning. with the 'fit for 55' package, we can bring the 'at least' to life by at least 55% by 2030 and even exceed the climate targets through concrete action. let's get on with it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. last october i did not think i would be able to draw such a positive balance sheet on the outcome of the negotiations on the first european climate law as we can do today. the european climate law is a great success. despite difficult negotiations, we as the epp have managed to push through our demands. we support the eu commission's emission reduction target of at least 55% by 2030. although this will be difficult, we are seeing other countries now following the same path. i also support the creation of a climate change advisory council based on the environment agency, which commissioner mcguinness had already advocated in her role as rapporteur in the european parliament at the time. let's use this opportunity to make a difference. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i hear there are some colleagues in this house who want to vote against the climate bill. i would remind you that in my country, luxembourg, the greens still had a minus 55% in their electoral programme in 2019. i think that voting against this text is highly irresponsible. i can 't say this enough . everyone can do their part to protect the climate. we have a lot of work to do to become climate neutral by 2050. so let us continue to act proactively together, on scientific grounds and technical feasibility, without populist gimmicks and exaggerations.
madam president, this parliament is today adopting the european climate law, the cornerstone of the european green deal, which will make our climate objectives binding: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and to become the first climate neutral continent by 2050, thus safeguarding our international commitments under the paris agreement. we are in a race against time to address the climate emergency, which will require systemic change and urgent and ambitious action. but as has been said, nothing ends today. it all starts, actually. it will begin a legislative task with more than fifty pieces of legislation that should transform trade, energy, construction or international trade. we have shown over the last decade that it is possible to dissociate emissions growth from economic growth. now we need to be able to accelerate this process of reducing emissions and take advantage of the post-pandemic economic recovery to introduce the green agenda. we are certainly facing a decision of intergenerational justice today, but we have to be able to combine this green agenda with social justice, combating climate change and combating inequality, because that is the only way to make it successful and because they are the two biggest challenges facing humanity.
mrs. talman, please. the time for big words and symbolism is over. the climate change legislation we are voting on today will not be enough to fully address the climate crisis. i and the centre party would have liked to see a higher goal. but today, we set a new historic goal. a big step in the right direction. the vote on the motion for a resolution is therefore totally irresponsible, given that we in the political community need to be united in supporting the necessary increase in ambition. because it's important to remember, it's not the goal itself that's going to stop climate change. it is politics and the transformation of society that must take us there. with new goals, we need new policies. we can't keep making the same mistakes over and over again. that is why i expect us in politics to take our responsibility in the record-breaking climate package that we are going to negotiate this autumn and show the way so that a new increase in ambition is needed to reach the new targets.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not without a certain irony that we are discussing the european climate law today. because yesterday the draft of the sixth report of the world climate council was released, and science warns that with continued climate change, the survival of humanity, the species homo sapiens, is seriously threatened. this shows that what we are experiencing now - heat waves, hailstorms, drought - are only the faint harbors of the years to come. instead of acting responsibly and doing everything possible to live up to our historical responsibility and to leave a habitable planet to our children and grandchildren, we are passing a law today that clearly misses the two-degree mark, not to mention the 1.5 degree mark. i will not agree to this betrayal of the young generation. but i will do everything to ensure that the laws that are coming will include effective measures that we still have to... (the president cut the speaker off)
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the n-va supports the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. that is an important security, even for investors. but this climate policy must also dare to put prosperity and competitiveness at its centre. the socioeconomic effects must therefore be properly calculated and monitored. the impact assessment at member state and regional level for the 2030 target, which we have been calling for for over a year, is still missing today. and the fact that this is not a fait divers has now also been made clear by the attitude of the european leaders. at the latest european summit, this impact assessment was clearly called for before any discussion of the division of labour. it is a perfectly valid question, but it is very remarkable that the question is only being asked so explicitly now, after the approval has already been given for the substantial tightening of the objectives with regard to 2030. to start this journey on the wrong foot and with a wrong compass is not good management.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are committed to climate neutrality by 2050, because the impacts of climate change affect not only our lives, but also our food production and, therefore, our farmers. yet, agriculture, our agriculture and forestry, is the most important key to powerful climate action. the european climate law can be a great opportunity if our agriculture and forestry and their potential are recognized as part of the solution: climate-tolerant trees, carbon storage, humus building. our aim must and can be to achieve energy self-sufficiency and carbon-neutral agriculture in europe well before 2050. as regards the qualitatively sustainable promotion of the biomass market whether liquid biomass from vegetable oil, gaseous biomass such as biogas or methane or solid biomass such as wood : the technologies are already available, mature, energy efficient and affordable. and they're already the horse of all renewable energies. let us be pace makers and courageous! the world around us is not asleep. so carbon neutrality requires practical innovation, openness to technology and offers rather than bans.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am one of those who welcome the position we have now reached, namely that we must increase our co2 reduction targets by 55 per cent by 2030. because look at the baseline: we still can't get every single member state in the eu to commit to climate neutrality by 2050. and by 2050, many scientists think it's too late to meet the paris goals. in view of this, i cannot understand the fundamental opposition of the greens to the far right and the far left. i want a europe which does not lose its industrial base but transforms it. i want a europe that produces cutting-edge green technology and better exploits the opportunities of digitalisation, so that we can make rapid progress on climate protection, but also to keep future-proof jobs in europe. i have not yet heard such a declaration from the green colleagues. on the contrary, they come with increasingly artificial, unattainable constraints that stifle innovative solutions like hydrogen and their much-needed scaling. and they're blindly ignoring the fact that the raw materials needed to make millions more electric cars, wind turbines, energy and data storage need to be mined somewhere. and i think it's best not to do it under unsustainable conditions in china or africa. instead of extending the proven effective tool of emissions trading to buildings, heat and transport so that we can make faster progress in reducing co2 in cities like berlin, they would rather sink billions in expropriation and nationalization. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that our most important task now is to give the economy the security of planning and investment. and that is what we are doing with today's vote.
in writing. the eu must become climate neutral! that's what the climate bill you just passed says. our climate goals are our "man on the moon" moments, as mrs von der leyen explained to us: the eu is becoming a model for the whole world. it will finally take the global leadership role it has long been entitled to. the reality is quite different: eu climate policy is damaging the economy and is a massive competitive disadvantage for our companies. we are faced with a battery of measures and restrictions. the aim is to ban the combustion engine altogether. the big, global car companies don't care about that. they simply move their production outside europe and build their incinerators there. the eu will only build electric cars. these are much easier to make, so fewer workers are needed. as a result, many people will lose their jobs. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. they cannot move their location at will, but are bound by local conditions. many of them will go bankrupt. more people will be unemployed. the eu's intention to save the world with its climate policy is a direct attack on our prosperity. we must fight it before it's too late.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the public sector loan facility is one of the three pillars of the just transition mechanism. climate change is the biggest challenge we humans have ever faced, and the european union wants to become the world's first climate-neutral continent. and to do that, we need ambitious climate legislation, an ecosocial transformation of the economy, and an ambitious just transition that doesn't let people down. the facility will support projects that do not generate sufficient revenues, especially in the regions most affected in the eu by the transition to the 2030 climate targets and the goal of a climate neutral economy by 2050 at the latest. and priority will be given to public institutions and projects located in less developed regions that contribute to climate goals and have adopted decarbonisation plans. this will combine funding of around €1.5 billion from the eu budget and €10 billion in loans provided by the european investment bank. the aim is to mobilise eur 25-30 billion of public investment for the regions concerned over the period 2021-2027. and this facility, like the just transition fund, will not support fossil fuel and nuclear energy projects. and it is my personal pleasure and honour to emphasise this success once again as rapporteur of the economic committee for both pillars of the just transition mechanism. anything else would be against the green deal. that would be stranded assets and it would be completely absurd. the eu is promoting the climate change transformation of business, industry and transport through the facility, and will benefit from, for example, the expansion of district heating networks, environmentally friendly transport infrastructure, energy-efficient renovation, the transition to a circular economy; the programme also supports retraining, training, social infrastructure and social housing. and in april 2021, we reached an agreement that spells out climate protection, fundamental rights protection and gender equality, including the "do no significant harm" principle, which means that projects cannot be harmful to the climate, the "polluter pays" principle and the paris agreement. in addition, the commission will undertake a gender impact assessment in the context of the review of the facility. and we have also set strict criteria for the selection of financing partners other than the european investment bank, so that lending policy also meets environmental, social and transparency standards. transparency and verification are also ensured by the taxonomy, reporting and audits of the european court of auditors. and for the less developed regions, the cofinancing rate was raised to 25%. the european parliament has no scope under the multiannual financial framework to increase the total amount of the eu budget, and the facility is therefore financed by naturally uncertain returns. and that is why we now have a joint declaration by the commission and parliament, in which they commit themselves to identifying additional resources if these returns are not sufficient. the financial framework for advice on the preparation, development and implementation of eligible projects has been increased to eur 35 million, and the european parliament has also pushed for the extension of advice before the application phase of projects. at least eur 10 million of this appropriation will be made available to the administrations of the regions concerned through the advisory bodies set up under investeu. and despite the good cooperation with the council, i must nevertheless express my great surprise at the great resistance which we parliamentarians have experienced in the trilogue on the subject of equality, specifically the preliminary gender impact assessment. when eu funds are allocated in the context of the covid-19 crisis and the climate crisis, it should be clear in the 21st century that investments are being spent with the utmost care on gender equality, precisely to change unequal structures. and that is precisely the attitude which we members of the european parliament, as representatives of the people of europe, expect from the council and the commission, and no other. a climate-neutral europe with an ecological-social transformation of the economy is a very big task, in which the public sector lending facility is a very central, important building block of the green deal. and we must now devote all our energies to these important tasks for the future. for a change now! i would like to thank my co-rapporteur and chairman of the committee on budgets, mr johan van overtfeldt, for the trusting cooperation, and especially the shadow rapporteurs of the political groups, the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mrs irene tinagli, the coordinators and secretariats concerned, all the colleagues and committees involved, the members of the political group and the scientific staff in my team. and of course, a special thanks goes to commissioner elisa ferreira and the german and portuguese presidencies of the council - it was only through their contribution and expertise that all this was possible. thank you for your cooperation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you all know the wise preacher solomon, the king. he once lamented: "there is no end to the making of many books". if he were alive today and knew the eu, i think he would say: 'there is no end to the many facilities.' again, we have a facility here, and i have the impression that we only create such programs to fix problems or to get out of the world that we have gotten ourselves into. and there can't be anything wrong with that. i have nothing against this program. i think that's probably good; it's also well-worded, good thoughts, good ideas. it has a certain transfer mechanism, which is also a certain leverage, so it makes a lot of loans. but i did find two problems here. the first is that when we make a new programme, we create new regulations over and over again, which leave loopholes, which open up new opportunities for corruption and abuse. and i think we should keep a good eye on that. i am a little concerned, mr van overtveldt, that we have this low threshold. it is much easier to open the door to abuse. the second problem i see is this: it is as if the problems of equitable compensation were confined to regions which are economically lagging behind. but that's not the case. we also have a huge problem in germany with the fact that our highly skilled and competent automotive industry is being massively reduced by the green deal. hundreds of thousands of jobs are at stake, and i have not found anything in this facility that would help german workers and steelworks. we should also keep an eye on that. let us not be like those who cut off their finger and then do not stop the bleeding but make sure that they do not interrupt the blood supply by increasing the number of transfusions. this is the wrong way.
in writing. i voted against this report. the pslf is designed to support public investment in the regions most affected by the transition to the 'green' economy through preferential lending conditions. we are against this fund for four reasons: 1) the credit conditions are already extremely favourable due to the ecb's negative interest rate policy. the pslf would only make sense under normal interest rate conditions. 2) the pslf is obviously a bribe to eastern europe to agree to the green deal. it's a reward for countries that otherwise would have resisted. 3) the the afd and rn have tabled a number of amendments to increase control and transparency of credit transactions. these concerns were not taken into account. 4) while the report should focus on the green transition, it contains many references to gender equality and discrimination (recital 5b, article 3a). it doesn't make any sense. the pslf is mainly used for investments in sectors where the overwhelming majority of employees are men.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner reynders, prime minister janša is abusing his power to prevent the european prosecutor from working in slovenia. he’s doing this not because something went wrong with the selection procedure or because something is wrong with the two candidates, they are very well qualified for the job. he is doing this out of a personal vendetta because one of the two candidates has previously investigated him personally. so prime minister janša is following in the footsteps of viktor orbán and attacking the independence of the judiciary. and this just days before slovenia takes the rotating presidency of the council. i think this is unacceptable. i was in ljubljana last week. i met with a whistleblower called ivan gale. ivan gale used to head up the national procurement body, exposed at least 13 cases of corruption with the mass procurement of medical equipment, and for that he was fired by mr janša’s government and personally attacked by the prime minister. so, dear colleagues, slovenia will receive eur 1.8 billion of recovery money, money from all eu taxpayers, and it is our job to prevent that this money is at risk of being stolen or risk of corruption. that’s why we need the european public prosecutor to be operational in slovenia as soon as possible. that is why blocking it from working is not just a formality, and that is why the european commission urgently needs to take action. mr reynders, let me be very clear on this, because the commission’s refusal on using the rule of law conditionality mechanism in the most outrageous cases, for example to cut funding to hungary, is emboldening the prime minister of slovenia. he clearly doesn’t fear any consequences. so as long as the commission refuses to act, i fear that there will be more that follow in the footsteps of someone like viktor orbán on this road to corruption and illiberalism. so please take action, commissioner.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, protecting the european budget from crime and corruption is not an option, it is a duty. this is why it was the honour of the european parliament to create the european public prosecutor's office, but it is clear that the set of problems during the establishment of the office is a testament to the mistrust that this new body arouses in too many member states. today, our parliament must act decisively to ensure that the public prosecutor's office has the right number of posts to ensure its proper functioning. but more than that, we must make a very strong protest in this parliament to the states which impede the appointment of their delegated prosecutors. and i say it with all my heart the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the council will then be able to adopt the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european parliament and council of ministers. and those who take part in these maneuvers weaken the rule of law. in conclusion, madam president, i want to say that we cannot continue to allow more and more states to dissociate themselves from the values of the european union, because in the end there will be nothing left of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable secretary of state, mrs zacarias, has been very helpful in this matter. i would like to thank you very much for your high profile presence in the european parliament. this is truly exemplary for a council presidency. first of all, because it is now coming to an end. thank you very much for that. ladies and gentlemen, the european public prosecutor's office is indeed a step forward in the creation of a common area of justice in criminal matters. fraud, corruption, serious crossborder vat fraud this must be tackled in europe uniformly, centrally best. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. and if that does not work at home, then it must be organised at european level. and that's why this is a good and right move. of course, it is very regrettable that not all member states are participating. if five member states are missing - denmark, ireland, hungary, poland, sweden - that is bad. that will have to change in the future, of course. and i think that we are going in the right direction with the european public prosecutor's office, which is what we need in principle. if european law is not respected, particularly - but not only - in the financial sector, then we need european authorities, european bodies that can have a direct impact in the member states. otherwise we will lose credibility in the european union.
i have to say, madam president, i am somewhat surprised by what i have just heard from ljubljana, because we were there last week and saw with our own eyes what the anti-democratic attacks of an authoritarian leader are doing to the country. they divide the country, they polarize the country, and these attacks keep happening. and this process that was talked about, it wasn't a process that was flawed in any way. that is what many people say, most experts on the ground say. from next week, this authoritarian person will be the face of this eu our face. and now this person is destroying and has already destroyed the credibility and integrity of an important institution. because what he has shown is that everyone who is then sent by slovenia is not independent. and yesterday, the leader of the cdu, armin laschet, courted this person in düsseldorf. and this conservative romance was left unchallenged. i'm not criticizing you. and i ask my epp colleagues here: are you showing a democratic attitude? are you distancing yourself from this party?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after parliament showed its respect for the lgbti community by raising the rainbow flag in the plenary two weeks ago, we should also show our respect for those who have become victims of migration policy, namely the victims of würzburg, but also of vienna and probably also of gothenburg. i therefore ask that the flags be lowered to half-mast in front of the european parliament and that a minute's silence be held in tribute to these victims.
president, european investment bank. – mr president, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it’s a great pleasure for me to be here – and to be here and not just to address you via video. the last time i had the privilege to address this house was in october 2019. how the world has changed since! it has been a difficult, yet crucial, year for the eu, its citizens and its institutions, and i would like to use this opportunity to congratulate all of you for having kept the eu’s democratically elected institution fully operating throughout this challenging period. i am happy to see that our constructive and fruitful exchange has continued throughout the pandemic. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs of the two reports, mr silva pereira and mr eickhout, for their thorough work and their good cooperation. the issues in your reports are extremely relevant. i also very much appreciate your support to the eu bank – both for its activities in and outside the eu. as you know, the eib group is an extremely effective instrument to the eu. in 2020, it increased its financing volumes to almost eur 77 billion, exceeding its own targets. a third of these funds, eur 25.5 billion, went into the immediate crisis response that started with the first package in march last year. most of it went to small and medium-sized businesses to avoid insolvencies and job losses, especially in countries that did not have the necessary budgetary means for massive national rescue packages. it was important to have a european response there because the impressive national schemes that we have seen, if left alone, would lead to a threat to the integrity of the internal market. so we needed a european component to that crisis response. at the outset of the pandemic, like firefighters, our job was to run forward into the fire and save others – in this case thousands of companies across the eu and beyond. by 31 march 2021, the eib group had approved financing of eur 64.1 billion for covid-19-related projects. the european guarantee fund (egf), launched at the peak of the crisis, is now delivering fast. businesses of different sizes have access to short-term financing, allowing them to pay their employees’ salaries, their invoices and keep their business afloat, and i have listened carefully: there was the idea of making this a revolving or permanent institution, this european guarantee fund. we have already reached half of our target. around eur 14 billion worth of projects have been approved, spread over all 22 participating member states, representing over eur 116 billion of investment in the real economy. outside the eu, as part of team europe, we also contributed over eur 7 billion, including eur 600 million to the covax global vaccine distribution facility, and i am of the firm opinion that this must be expanded because we must bring substance to the statement that nobody will be safe until everybody is safe in this world. so we need to strengthen our activities also outside the european union. in the eu, our support is not only aimed at helping companies. a very substantial part of our work during the covid-19 crisis was to support health projects aimed at ending the pandemic. this support targets the race in vaccine development, therapeutics and diagnostic solutions against covid—19. we signed loans to support hospitals and we quickly approved a loan of eur 100 million to biontech – by the way a company we have known for a long time because we had financed the development of their cancer products – that was leading to the development of the mrna technology, which is now useful for fighting covid-19. so we were practically the first in the industry to be on that track. we were in the favourable position of already working with them for several years because of the cancer treatment activities. we also supported over 25 highly innovative european biotech and medtech companies with projects in treatments and diagnostics against covid. the healthcare sector is clearly an example of what the eu bank does best. as a public bank, we step in to invest where private money would not, or not yet, because of the long-term horizon of these projects and their high risks. but, looking at the wider economy, what is clear is that the pandemic has exacerbated existing imbalances and accelerated structural changes. this is why the programmes we approved in the context of the 2021—2027 multiannual financial framework are of crucial importance. under investeu, the eib group will deploy eur 19.6 billion of guarantee and a significant part of our work on investeu will be to directly support cohesion regions and just transition. we are also very excited to have started bilateral discussions with several member states on how to implement the recovery and resilience facility through providing advisory services and developing financial instruments. this brings me to my next point, which is how best to support the green recovery and transition. speaking of transition, today we are all countries in transition: transition to a climate—friendly and truly digital economy. yes, as we learned, sometimes the hard way, like from the transition of many so—called new member states in the early 90s, this process comes at a cost. a transition to net zero also risks disrupting personal identities and deepening social inequalities. some jobs once thought to be for life might be lost. what does it mean? it means that we need to put people in a position to grasp the opportunities of change and managing expectations to avoid disillusionment. it means that we need to have a just transition. i appreciate very much that this parliament is so supportive of our climate action ambitions. our climate bank roadmap sets out how we will support the european green deal with the most ambitious strategy on climate action of all multilateral development banks (mdbs), and of course fully in line with the eu taxonomy on sustainable finance, which i welcome very much because we need transparency, we need accountability and we need reporting obligations. only then will the investors give us the money that we need in order to finance all these policies to reach our objectives. it cannot be done with taxpayers’ money only. from 2025 onwards, 50% of our lending will be for climate action and environmental sustainability. this will help to leverage eur 1 trillion of eu investment of the eib group over the critical decade ahead. that’s a massive commitment. the second one is of course the full alignment of all our activities with the paris agreement since the start of this year, and we are on track to achieve our objectives. we need huge increases in investment in physical capital – new energy systems, new transport systems, our carbon sinks, our ecosystems – and, as i mentioned before, in people to develop skills and innovate. we need eur 300 billion a year, just to modernise the energy sector! yet, for years, europe has been lagging behind when it comes to investment. as was mentioned before, the juncker plan was a big step forward. let me say at the end a word about the link between innovation, climate and development. it is crucial that we begin to think of these three dimensions together. we will never be able to solve our climate issues and reach the climate objectives of the united nations if we think that with 8% co2 emissions in europe reduced we can do it. no, we must help the other parts of the world to go in the same direction, and not with old technologies, but with new technologies. if there is one sector where the europeans are top of the class in the entire world, then it is clean tech. we will have this edge now only for a couple of years and then the others will have caught up. so, if we don’t want to see chinese coal—power plants to electrify africa or american plants in the west of africa or elsewhere with shale gas used, then we must go into action. otherwise, the sustainable development goals of the united nations and the paris goals will be going up in smoke. i need to stop here because i am so full of energy and ideas to refer to you, but i think i have the opportunity to come back and also to respond to individual questions. (applause)
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable president of the eib, mr hoyer, honourable members, i would like to welcome the two reports and thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteurs, pedro silva pereira and bas eickhout, for their useful and relevant work. the european investment bank is a vital partner for implementing eu policies inside and outside our borders. i welcome this opportunity to discuss in parliament how the eib can help the eu to achieve our political priorities. the covid-19 pandemic has presented unprecedented challenges to our societies and economies. it required the eu to respond decisively and in a coordinated way. our collective agreement on the largest recovery package ever to be financed through the eu’s long-term budget and nextgenerationeu is a testament to this response. the support of our key partners and notably the eib is essential in providing and leveraging investments aligned with eu policy priorities, including innovation and the green and digital transformations. support should also be fully in line with our strategic geopolitical considerations. it is important for the eib to further improve geographical balance and step up its activity in less developed regions, particularly in the context of the recovery. it is important to ensure a balanced development of the internal market and further convergence within the eu, while also contributing to the green and digital transitions of these regions. the bank has a proven ability for significantly reshaping its activities and adapting to changing realities. the successful implementation of the european fund for strategic investment perfectly illustrates its capacity to seize new opportunities and redefine business models to address investment gaps that still affect the eu today. this is particularly true for the innovation and infrastructure sectors. the eib group will remain a privileged partner under invest eu, implementing 75% of the budget guarantee and advisory budget. rapid deployment is essential and i trust this will be one of the key priorities of the eib group. we also rely on the eib’s close cooperation with the commission to align its operations and strategic direction with the eu’s external policy objectives and build strong partnerships with other international financial institutions and national promotional banks. our aim should be to enhance our existing cooperation channels without major institutional changes or additional costs. we will build on the work of the high-level group on the european financial architecture for development and on a stronger team europe approach along the principles of eu policy first and open architecture. let me now address two particularly relevant issues highlighted in your reports. first, climate change. the commission fully supports the ambitious climate action strategy of the european investment bank, matching the ambitious commitments of the paris agreement. more investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency will be essential to meet those commitments. with the eib group’s climate bank roadmap, the eib became the first multilateral development bank to be aligned with the paris agreement and ready to adopt the eu taxonomy. the eib’s leading role in climate financing can play an important role in a successful outcome of the upcoming cop 26 meetings. i rely on the eib’s close engagement with relevant stakeholders in this area. second, tax compliance. the eu has taken significant steps to fight tax avoidance. this includes integrating new requirements against tax avoidance in eu legislation concerning particularly its financing and investment operations. as a follow-up, the commission has been working closely with the eib and other implementing partners on adapting their current compliance procedures to this new environment. the eib and the commission have close and constructive cooperation to reflect recent eu and international developments in the bank’s procedures. however, those who are keen to avoid taxes are highly creative, so we cannot become complacent. the commission will continue to monitor this important area closely and work with the eib on the necessary adaptations of its policies. now, relating specifically to a question raised by mr eickhout concerning article 19 opinions, current commission practice involves granting disclosure to individual article 19 opinions upon request, which in the commission’s view, provides the best balance of different interests. such requests are treated according to the access to document rules governed by the access to documents regulation. those rules build on a presumption of disclosure, but also take into account the fact that the opinions could contain information that is sensitive, not only with regard to the eib, but also with regard to third parties such as private project promoters. this ensures at the same time that legitimate interests of the broader public in knowing the underlying rationale of the commission’s opinion and third party rights are annually protected. to conclude, the commission looks forward to working with the eib on the upcoming revisions of its lending policies in a number of other important areas, notably the revision of the transport lending policy, which must be seen through the lens of decarbonisation, and the eib’s fundamental and social standards. thank you very much and i look forward to a productive debate today.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr vice-president, mr president of the eib, thank you very much for being here today; it is a pleasure to have you. i think the european investment bank does a lot of things right, and the report acknowledges that: the work on the implementation of the juncker plan, the definition of the eib as a climate bank and, of course, the investment in all these last years to improve capacity, to increase domestic demand across the european union, and also in development work. but i would like to ask two questions here today. the first, to both the president and vice-president of the eib, mr dombrovskis. we often talk about improving the democratic accountability of the eib to this house and the capital problems of the eib; the report again calls for an increase in the capital of the eib. in recent years we have used the union budget to guarantee the issues of the european investment bank itself, but i would like to see us exploring the possibility of directly contributing from the european commission budget to the capital of the european investment bank. the european investment bank treaty itself would have to be revised, but we have already done so in view of the uk's departure. and if the european commission were present in the capital of the eib, i think that the control of this house would be much better and stronger. i would also like to ask you about the involvement of the eib in the development of the just transition facility, both through investeu and through the public sector credit facility. and two final concerns: we have had a lot of news about the management of human resources at the eib, perhaps too presidential and not democratized enough as it should be. i do not know whether the president will take the opportunity of the hearing to comment on this matter. and it is true that the ethics committee - whose existence we welcome - has in recent years given too many waivers and that it is not really the case of one or the other vice-president, but that there are many vice-presidents working in the private sector and i think this should be reviewed.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president hoyer, we need the european investment bank to help europe successfully transition to green and digital, and we also need the eib to continue to fulfil its traditional role as an investor in infrastructure and the cohesion of the union, and i believe that these two roles are not contradictory but must go hand in hand. and this is very clear when we talk about the just transition mechanism, for which the bank has a great responsibility to take. we must not leave mining areas behind, and for that we need the eib both to ensure flows of finance into this sector, but also to proactively help these regions through specialised technical assistance. our farmers also need more attention. we see very clearly that the agricultural sector has, unfortunately, one of the lowest project success rates. but if we want agriculture to contribute to the ecological transition, if we want young people to return to the countryside, if we want healthy and affordable food, then we also need more support from the bank for agricultural smes or young farmers to have access to finance and assistance, for example by extending the mandate of the advisory hub to include the field of agriculture and rural development.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as we speak about our investment bank, forests are burning in many places around the world. our investment bank, the european investment bank, is acting against climate change, it has changed course noticeably. i am personally grateful to you, mr hoyer, for what you have done in the coal phase-out against the stiff resistance of many member states, including our own. but at the same time, it's not enough. we need to get out of non-renewable energy now. we can no longer invest in so-called transitional technologies. there is no time for motorways, for new gas infrastructure. such a transition is ultimately a transition to hell. and that is why it is wrong for the european commission to refer to gas, fossil gas, in its sustainable finance strategy which it will present tomorrow, commissioner. we need 100% renewable. we greens are arguing for an investment bank that is committed to 100% renewable energy.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the reports contain a lot of good, and the eib does a lot of good. but unfortunately there are also some negative things in the reports, especially at the end, and i would like to mention them again very briefly. first, there is a lack of transparency between the intermediary financial institutions. there is a lack of information on the final beneficiaries. there is a lack of disclosure of the beneficial ownership of some clients and then this problem with the short-term follow-up of several vice-presidents. but the real problem is that the european court of auditors still does not have full powers of audit. and we need to work on that. if we fail to solve this, then in ten years' time we will still be discussing the same problems and the eib will not be able to fulfil its mandate.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the european parliament, mr hoyer and mr dombrovskis, in the report which we shall be voting for by a very large majority, are asking the european investment bank to do more. the positive steps taken so far are not enough. we need more investment and less inequality. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, including the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, and will continue to support the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy. increase focus on investments in the social sector (health, education, housing) to start implementing the social pillar. address regional disparities, correct imbalances in eib investment activity and serve more ambitiously the climate targets we have set, without using the pandemic as a pretext for cuts. and two constant demands of the european parliament: more transparency and democratic accountability, and improvement in the area of gender equality, particularly for serious harassment complaints.
mr president i was pleased to hear that commissioner dombrovskis also called for the european investment bank to act fairly in its financing of technological change and in its lending policy to ensure geographical balance. i would like to make three further requests to the bank: first, to work more closely with the national development banks, since this is the only way to coordinate eu, national and regional development programmes. the bank should therefore be receptive to requests from member states. second, we need to measure progress in a uniform way everywhere, so we know where we are in meeting our economic and climate goals. please share your measurement methodology and sustainability indicator numbers with the national development and partner banks. transparency helps to achieve the objectives and thus avoids the accusation of double standards. finally, not only in principle but also in practice, the more smes that can receive support quickly, the more we can achieve viable projects, improve competitiveness and finally leave the crisis behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the eib has made a significant contribution to stabilisation through its 2020 funding programme. 420 000 small and medium-sized enterprises were assisted. this has supported and safeguarded four million jobs, including in the sme sector. jobs were secured, crisis-ridden industries were given adequate support and the most severe economic impacts were cushioned. the eib has also kept its long-term objectives in mind. it is particularly important in economic times to promote the economy in a sustainable way and to support it accordingly. the support of our small and mediumsized enterprises is of particular importance. we must not forget that, mr president. this is particularly important from our point of view. they are the backbone of our economy, and without them we will not achieve the climate targets. and these smes need transitional technologies, whether the greens like it or not, and we need to be aware of that. please continue to support our medium-sized industries and transition technologies.
mr president, with financing of over eur 60 billion per year, the european investment bank is a key player in putting eu policy into action. at the core of eu policy stands the green deal to decarbonise our economy and to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. therefore, we demand full alignment of the eib with at least the goals of the paris agreement. this seems to be logical, but apparently it’s not. when we greens look at the annual report of the eib we think that it doesn’t fit together that the eib claims to be a climate bank when half of its investments still go to heavy polluters. we in the european parliament call for decarbonisation plans to be in place for eib counterparties, with clear timelines and targets based on science. for the public sector loan facility, where the eib will be the main finance partner, the standards do indeed help the just transition. but for a real ecological, social transition in europe, we need an eib that is more courageous than ever to support the right investments. we have to fight against climate change by being ambitious.
in writing. the report also includes the eib as the eu's public creditor. this is wrong according to the treaties. the eib is legally the bank of the member states governed by international law. it is not an eu institution and is not a public lender. the member states are the shareholders of the eib and are responsible for the investment decisions. it is not the commission or parliament's job to influence their investment decisions. the report also calls for an increase in the eib's capital. after the united kingdom's withdrawal, the capital was significantly reduced. this would mean that all member states would have to borrow additional capital from the eib. the report also contains some strange recommendations, such as the call for the eib to invest in bicycles for remote communities or the call for the ecb to invest in smes run by women. while europe is in dire need of investment, the report praises the increase in eib investment in third countries. a country like turkey, which actively works against the interests of the eu and its citizens, has received almost 30 billion euros since 2000. this has to stop. the eib is an investment bank, not a charity for political dreamers and the corrupt autocratic friends of eu governing parties.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is not yes, ladies and gentlemen: even in 2021, there are still gaps in the fight against child abuse what a poor testimony! the action plan against disinformation does ensure that politically unwanted opinions are censored on social media. an app tells me if there is a person in my vicinity who, according to a completely useless pcr test, is allegedly infected with corona. i have to prove my right to freedom of movement with my digital vaccination passport. but the eu cannot protect children from abuse. perhaps we are hoping that the problem will go away on its own. because once the eu has worked its way through the ideologically motivated pseudo-problems and has built its colourful, gender-equitable, climate-neutral, multicultural world, then perhaps all children have already fallen victim to the human right to abortion.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner johansson, any form of sexual abuse is a serious violation of human rights, but it is especially abhorrent when it is perpetrated against minors, especially vulnerable people. the european union boasts the highest standard in the world for protecting the privacy and confidentiality of personal communications. but it has been the work of this parliament to make that standard compatible with the detection and prevention of any form of online sexual abuse against children. the commission took the initiative less than a year ago, on 20 september 2020, with the intention of avoiding the entry into force of the european electronic communications code to make it more difficult to identify sexual abuse against minors online, in the light of the validity of the eprivacy directive of 2002; it was essential to strike the right balance between that directive and the detection and prevention of any form of sexual abuse online. and the negotiating team, led by birgit sippel, with the council, has achieved this: with human supervision, with a guarantee of adequate remedies in the event of the correct application of the new legal regime that comes into force and with a temporary period of no more than three years, pending the adoption of a definitive initiative on online sexual abuse and any form of grooming, harassment, not to mention child pornography, which obliges this european parliament in particular to act. and i believe that by achieving this balance, this european parliament has once again shown itself to be a legislator at the service of the fundamental rights of citizens, and is sending a message of empathy and sensitivity to the victims who have suffered and to the families of the victims who have suffered this particularly heartbreaking and intolerable form of violation of the human rights of vulnerable people such as children.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, let me first start by clarifying that my group is going to vote in favour of the trilogue results, but i would like to make a couple of remarks. i have noticed in the process that whenever we ask critical questions about the legislative proposals, that immediately the suggestion was created that i wasn’t sufficiently committed to fighting child sexual abuse. but i think you don’t only have to know about child sexual abuse to be abhorred by it. i know child sexual abuse. i’m committed to fighting it. but i’m also a legislator and that means that i have to ask critical questions and i have to do a thorough job in making sure that the legislation is watertight. madam commissioner, i think we both know that the result on the table is legally flawed. we also know that there’s been, i would say, almost undue pressure on the process, including moral blackmail – not least by facebook, who put pressure on the process by stopping or reducing their activities, and i think that’s absolutely scandalous. on substance, i very much agree with the arguments that have been put forward by my green colleagues. but i would like to say one thing to my green colleagues: politics is not about choices between good and evil. politics is mainly about shitty dilemmas and making difficult choices and standing by it, and that is why my group will support it. we have questions. we will support it. and we had better make sure that the final definitive law is going to be legally watertight.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not all meps received open mail last week. this is what it would look like if all your mail was opened and scanned without suspicion and any suspicious content was turned over to the police. what do you mean, unthinkable? this is exactly what our electronic mail is being allowed to do with the first eu regulation on mass surveillance. commissioner, you cannot protect children from abuse with these suspicious machines! child pornographers don't use facebook or google, and they don't use the internet. police estimate that up to 86% of automated criminal complaints are filed against innocent people. i'm a father myself. i want my child to be effectively protected and to be able to grow up with private spaces and private conversations. children and young people also have a right to privacy. and this illegal emergency ordinance violates that fundamental right. in this totalitarian logic, even our bedrooms should be under constant surveillance as potential places of abuse. what are your plans next? 72% of eu citizens do not want their private and intimate messages and chats - including nude photos - to be snooped on by private companies without being suspected. respect that. i'll close with the words of an abuse victim: i had no confidential communication tools when i was raped. all my communications were monitored by the perpetrators. being able to talk freely about what happened in a safe space is essential for victims of abuse. the european parliament will vote to take away this security from survivors. this regulation will drive abuse underground, making it much harder to detect.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, this parliament is the epicentre of good intentions. but as they say, well meant is usually the exact opposite of well done. this parliament claims concern for our low demography, yet it just voted to accelerate this process by declaring abortion a human right. it claims commitment to reversing the demographic change, but all it can think of is the marginalisation of next-generation europeans by subjecting them to the negative impact of mass immigration. it claims to support women in their choices, but all it does is look down on women who choose to prioritise family life over career. it claims to stand for people’s rights, but in truth, above all else, the eu seeks to meet the demands of the labour market. and this, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are really talking about – the demands of the labour market and nothing else. shame on you, eu.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. our grandmother rides a motorcycle in the henhouse. our grandmother is an old environmentalist. that was the wdr children's choir's christmas song two years ago. the people in charge of the public broadcaster obviously thought it was funny. and why grandma is an environmental cow, that's made clear in one verse: because our grandma buys cheap meat at the discounter. so that's exactly why my mother joined the afd. because my mother is one of 17 million german pensioners who receive less than 1,000 euros. and they don't buy from the discount store because they want to, but because they have to, because they're poor. and what is the german pension system in comparison with the european one? our neighbours, the austrians, receive on average a full 800 euros more than the germans 800 euros! the italians work an average of 32 years and receive 91.8% of their salary as a pension, the french 35.4 years and receive 73.6% of their salary, the spanish 35.3 years and 83.4% of their salary. and what about rich germany? in the rich germany? we work the longest, 39 years, and we get the least, 51.9%. what's wrong with that? there's a lot of things wrong with that. it is not true that there are politicians at work who do not understand the needs of the population at all anymore, because they do not have to worry about themselves at all they are well taken care of. but the reality is that people don't notice it at all. we need an alternative policy. we need the alternative for germany.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we shall be voting on my report this week on the amendment of the rules of procedure. it 's like the traffic laws . it sets out very clear rules for how we work and provides a high level of legal certainty. we have already recently decided to amend the rules of procedure in view of the pandemic, so that we can continue to operate. we had to do this quickly, because we had to do a lot of intensive thinking, and so some of the questions from pre-pandemic times have been left out. we have now taken up these and have therefore introduced mainly technical amendments. we are updating sources, introducing new procedures which were already envisaged but not yet defined. we are deleting rules that have become obsolete, we are extending the mandate of interparliamentary delegations, and we are providing clarity on when decisions and recommendations of the coordinators in the committee are deemed to have been adopted. well, i told you, mostly technical changes. one question is very political and it is also important for this parliament. it's about article 213. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european agency for the development of vocational training. so far, this rule says that it is sufficient if a committee is not composed exclusively of male or female members. say: 'one is sufficient, and then the requirements are fulfilled.' we want to take this a step further. and that's why we're proposing that the chair and the first vice chair of a committee should not be of the same gender. the remaining members of the executive board and, in future, the entire executive board will be equal. and that's to be in effect for the next term. you all know: the role of the first vice-chairman is a very special one and that is why it really makes sense to link this up here. we normally take our decisions in this working group by consensus. unfortunately, it was not possible with this rule, and i really tried. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i hope that all the groups, including the largest in this house, will support my report. because what we're writing here is not revolutionary. it's what we've been expecting from publicly traded companies for years. and so it is a question of credibility that we are taking the lead here. recent experiences such as the future conference ms šuica knows this confirm it: the epp had strongly advocated equal representation and even made its decision on the overall list dependent on it. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, then let us apply this principle of gender parity to all our work and not just à la carte when it suits. and a final note: even with abstinence, one cannot escape responsibility. for or against more gender equality, that is the question. i therefore ask you to support this amendment to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which will also meet the requirements of the 21st century. it is a small step for you, but a big step for parity and a big step for parliament. give yourself a shake.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i remember in 1991, when we were newly reunited in east germany, we saw yugoslav tanks moving into slovenia and firing on roadblocks set up by truck drivers. i'm pleased to see you here today as commander and secretary of defense. mr. prime minister, i can assure you that you are fighting the same spirit in your politics then as today. those who criticize you are often the descendants of those who fought for slovenian independence and freedom in 1991. so i'm happy to tell you that our group will support you. you have presented a very balanced and moderate programme for your presidency. that is what europe needs: rational policy rather than moral hubris. i think we'd all do well not to lecture freedom fighters who have won their democracy themselves about freedom and democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are voting today on the connecting europe facility and i would like to thank our negotiators here in the european parliament very warmly, because we have a really good result. this is a good result not only because €33.7 billion will be spent in europe over the next few years from 2021 to 2027 to boost crossborder projects, but also because we have a lot of work to do in crossborder transport today. we still have bottlenecks between states. we have overarching problems that have not been solved. and for that, it is important that we establish a uniform european framework and get these projects under way. but we also have a lot of work to do on the central transeuropean transport corridors. in my own region, for example, this is the electrification of the line from oldenburg to wilhelmshaven. so europe is investing money to make the ecological transformation of our economy a reality, to make cross-border transport competitive in europe. that's why i'm happy to agree. and that is why we have a good result here for the european union and for the citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we as a parliament have worked constructively on this report, advocating transparency, clear rules, protection of the final recipients and also a link and clarity with regard to the rule of law report. i would also like to express my gratitude to the two rapporteurs. but i must be quite honest: i can no longer explain to anyone why i am always standing here in parliament and saying something. and frankly, i am also a little sorry for the dear commissioner, mr hahn, that he has to repeat the same thing over and over again. because the point is, these guidelines are not necessary. they are a diversion, they are the biggest diversion to cover up the fact that the european council, the european summit, the eu treaties have been broken. it is not the task of the european council to legislate. the legislators have passed a regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and this is a huge diversion, it is a mess, and we will not accept that here in the european parliament. and when they come again - i know mr kuhs always likes to quote these conclusions. i think that these conclusions of the summit are a clear violation. this should be brought before the european court of justice. and that is why i can only say: let us finally act! i feel sorry for the commission or at least for mr hahn because he has to say the same thing here all the time. but the von der leyen commission must finally decide: does it want to continue to follow the dirty deal that was made at the summit with hungary and poland or does it want to follow the democracy and the rule of law in europe that the european parliament is fighting for?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what do lukashenko, assad and kim jong—un have in common? well, all three are autocrats, they hate free media and they hate our democracy, but they have also for many years been members of a club, the annual list of the worst enemies of press freedom published by reporters without borders. since yesterday, there is a new member of this club, viktor orbán. let that sink in: a prime minister in the european union is now labelled a press freedom predator. that in itself is scandalous, but it’s even worse when you think that, unlike lukashenko, unlike assad, unlike kim jong—un, the european union is actually not sanctioning him for his authoritarian behaviour. the commission – you, mr hahn – has the tools to sanction him, but you refuse to act. you say that we still need those guidelines and we need to work on those cases. we have heard this now for seven months and the facts keep being created on the ground. i’ve said it before: the inaction is having a direct and severe effect on the situation in hungary. now there are a lot hungarian citizens that are eagerly waiting for those eur 7.2 billion of recovery money that are scheduled to come in. they want to save their businesses and they want to invest in the future. but you know that the management of eu funds in hungary is dismal. you know that more than half the tenders only have a single bidder and that far too often it is a friend or a family member of viktor orbán that wins those tenders. you know that, when corruption is actually uncovered, the prosecutors don’t pick it up because orbán controls the prosecution. in those rare cases where a case does make it in front of a judge, courts that have been stacked by viktor orbán with his allies throw the cases out. they don’t punish those that steal our taxpayers’ money on an industrial scale. so, commissioner hahn, we have to stop this charade. we have to stop this postponing and the tweaking of internal rules and guidelines. we need to use the rule of law conditionality. let’s do that now.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. please stay strong! do not give in to this pressure from the european parliament! i think that this is a disregard for the agreements of the european council. i also think it is a slap in the face to the member states, poland and hungary, because they were promised that these rules would be finalised and the ecj procedure would be awaited, and then we should move on. you're not going to. ladies and gentlemen, i am afraid that the conditionality mechanism and the new guidelines are a strange cocktail of rules which are on the one hand reasonable but on the other completely absurd. it is reasonable to act at national and european level by imposing accountability and fighting fraud, corruption and nepotism. we're in agreement on that. but there is also a nonsensical part, and it is obvious that this part has the ever more obvious intention of really monopolising morality here and regulating the use of funds through new eu values. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. keep it up! the bible says, "what a man is sowing, this he will also reap". they do not divide the eu poland and hungary. stop it, please! the european union is not a political entity.
the commission has already done so. in an october 2020 poll, 77 percent of european union citizens said loud and clear: no european funds for member states that do not respect the rule of law! and that's exactly what we've had a law against for seven months. the eu commission must implement this law now, without any ifs and buts and, above all, without any hesitation. when countries financially crush the free press and put the independent judiciary on a leash, then a reliable control over the use of european funds is no longer structurally possible. and this is particularly important now because the funds from the european union's reconstruction plan must be used to rebuild the economy there. but there is a great danger that they will be used to further trample on the rights of the people. and we can prevent that. when i say 'we', i mean the european commission, and the european commission must prevent this. the credibility of the european union as a whole depends on it.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the situation in nicaragua (2021/2777 (rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 july 2021.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the repression of the opposition in turkey, in particular the hdp (2021/2788 ((rsp)). i would like to inform members that a group debate is planned for this debate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, nothing can justify the death of democracy, nor fear of terrorism, nor allegations of disloyalty. it is not the hdp that the turkish authorities are attacking. it is the foundations of pluralism in the country itself. when i met with hdp members in a small turkish town a couple of weeks ago, i sensed what it means when democracy dies. those were simple people, not big political shots. we talked about politics, about their life, about covid. i told them about the work of the parliament. together, we mourned the death of deniz poyraz, who was cold blooded killed in izmir. i looked into those people’s eyes, young and old, i looked for something that i couldn’t find. i couldn’t find hope. no wonder. mayors like ahmet türk - sacked. leaders like selahattin demirtaş - imprisoned. members of parliament like ömer faruk gergerlioğlu - stripped of their parliamentary duties. we’re expecting his release in the coming hours. democracy cannot survive if political pluralism is suffocating and pluralism is no pluralism at all if the only space left is for oppositions to the government’s liking. the banned procedure against hdp is just a final chord in a sad story of suppressing political pluralism in turkey. we all want a positive agenda with turkey. but how positive can an agenda be against the background of this persecution? it’s not about the hdp, it’s about turkey’s democratic future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. on 21 march, turkey's constitutional court accepted a ban case against the second largest opposition party, the hdp. mr borrell, you said you were concerned about this decision. but on the same day, 21 june, our commission president, mrs von der leyen, tweeted: 'good conversation with president erdoğan before euco thursday. we discussed the state of eu-turkey relations, covid-19, trade and customs union, the situation in the eastern mediterranean, migration and development in afghanistan. isn't that interesting? not a word, not a single word about the tense human rights situation. not a word about hdp. not a word about the chp. the only attempt to create a positive agenda and positive development with turkey - a development, a positive agenda, but one that is built on nothing but sand. the sad thing is that the eu is helping a regime in turkey that is fundamentally opposed to the eu's self-declared values. and so the eu contradicts itself at its core. i have said it many times, ladies and gentlemen, and i shall say it again: the erdoğan government is weaker than ever and the opposition more diverse. the regime is losing support from all sides. what is the eu doing? it strengthens the regime's back and weakens the opposition. that is why the current policy of the so-called positive agenda is totally irresponsible and totally unacceptable. the eu has decided to continue the refugee pact with the regime, even though the regime not only disregards the rights of refugees but also creates new causes of flight every day by pursuing a policy of repression against dissenters and oppressing its own population. ladies and gentlemen, three minutes would not be enough to give an approximate account of what is happening in turkey. read what the representative of organized crime from turkey, sedat peker, has said in recent weeks about the situation, about corruption, about what is not acceptable in turkey. the people in turkey are starving, they are fighting for their existence, they are fighting for democracy, they are fighting for their rights to freedom, and the eu is making a deal with a regime. this is unacceptable! ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear. the erdoğan administration's refusal to engage in new foreign policy provocations is far from a positive agenda. this geopolitical orientation of the eu is cynical and incendiary. turkey is one of the most developed countries in the entire region, and the regime is doing everything it can to destroy these positive developments and achievements of the people. what is the eu doing? that is the crucial question.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 july 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. turkish president erdoğan has sentenced the 1000th opposition figure. what is the eu doing? it continues to send billions of euros to the bosphorus because turkey is a candidate country. a country in which human rights are systematically violated, where there is no political opposition, no independent media and no free judiciary, is a candidate for eu membership it does not care that it occupies part of a member country and is regularly threatened. the eu's human rights debate is a huge theatre. all they're saying is, "it's fake news". the eu treats different countries very differently for reasons of political expediency. your dealings with turkey are a declaration of bankruptcy of what you announced in 2004 at the beginning of the accession negotiations. at that time you said that the accession negotiations would improve the human rights situation and the overall political situation in turkey. turkey would embrace the values of democracy and the rule of law. how naive can you be? so many years and billions later, it's obvious to everyone that your project has failed. but you're still holding on to it. that is the real scandal.
the next item is the oral question to the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on foreign influence on democratic processes (b9-0025/21) (2021/2662 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, for far too long, the eu has watched idly while malicious foreign actors spread disinformation and interfere in our elections. they went on with co—opting our civil servants, buying up our strategic infrastructure and spreading hate, so they gradually erode our democracy. in the digital era, malicious actors have learned fast how to weaponise algorithms and manipulate social media with impunity. but how did we respond to this growing hybrid threat? instead of active coordination, the eu is stuck in a silo mentality. we need stronger oversight on the political advertisement. instead of mapping the threats and facilitating effective countermeasures, we ignore foreign funding that aims to destabilise our society. the time for watching is over. we need to act now. creating the eu structures where member states can synchronise their policies is important. we must build our resilience in our societies. but raising awareness and media literacy is not enough. we need to invest in the countering infrastructure, and expand the skills and mandates. we cannot continue to surrender our strategic infrastructure to malicious actors for short—term gains, while endangering the future of this continent. more coordination on critical infrastructure is vital. we need to look beyond the eu and assist our european neighbours in the western balkans, as well as in the eastern partnership countries, in countering disinformation and anti—eu propaganda. often these are the testing grounds for russian, chinese and turkish hybrid operations. most importantly, all of our efforts will be in vain if we do not raise the cost for perpetrators of this interference. the targeted sanctions on disinformation outlets and the states behind them are the right way to go. the budget question was already mentioned by ms kalniete, and we hope that in the next year we will see that there is a significant increase in the budget for the east stratcom unit.
i have to say, madam president, the quality of this debate is already evident in the introductory report by the rapporteur, mr glucksmann. he gives three examples of illegal influence by foreign powers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the eu's energy policy. mr glucksmann, the brexit campaign can be supported, that is covered by freedom of expression. and if athens sells piraeus to china, then you can be unhappy about that. but they say, "yes, that may have been legal or illegal". what's the matter? if it was legal, it's legal. and then it's not illegal interference by foreign powers. didn't you learn at sciences po that there's a difference between legal and illegal? you might want to think about that. if china really is the big threat, which i think is true in part, then you have to ask, of course, why did the eu just sign a trade agreement with china? it doesn't add up. the question is, why is turkey never mentioned? turkey has been known to spy on germany before the last german elections and has put enormous pressure on germans with turkish roots. but there is no mention of this at all. probably not want to jeopardize the refugee deal. as a member of the inge committee responsible, i have unfortunately not yet seen a single, clearly demonstrable example of illegal influence by foreign powers on european elections. everything was always conjecture, weak lines of evidence, and supposed money flows, but not a single piece of evidence. foreign interference is the european union's paranoia to keep the peoples in fear and thus justify ever new ways of surveillance.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, it has been quite a struggle, but now we have the eu global human rights sanctions regime. and you may have realised, especially with regards to china, it has created some effect and some impact. so i think it’s good that we finally debated it here in the european parliament because it was actually the parliament that initiated this mechanism. it is the parliament that was mainly targeted by chinese retaliation. and it’s the parliament that we use to debate issues on human rights and eu foreign policy. so, mr logar, it may be the prerogative of the council to decide on sanctions alone, but this is not how it should be. and this is part of our questions and our resolution as well, because at the moment we have an eu global human rights sanction regime where the european parliament doesn’t have a say in it. so i think it’s good that, as a start, we agreed across all political parties that it’s time to establish a dedicated working group looking at the implementation of sanction regimes and making proposals for possible persons or organisations to be sanctioned. and i also call on the council and commission to reach out more strongly to civil society organisations, to journalists, to human rights defenders. they are our allies in the fight against human rights violations and i think they should also have a formal mechanism in which they can include their proposals, their ideas, their discussions into this mechanism, and not just random consultation whenever it pleases the council and the commission. that’s the second call. i think that is very important in our resolution. so after seven months of this mechanism, i think it’s good that we say congratulations, we have it and it has an impact. but i think now it’s time to join forces to make the best use of it. we here in the parliament are ready. civil society is ready and i have high trust in the commission and the council that they are equally willing to join forces with us to make the best use of this instrument.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i remember going to a lecture on international law in the late 1990s, where the professor said, "make this clear: human rights are the last means the west has to assert its global dominance". if we see this file, it'll confirm it. we decide not only on the human rights that are applied, but also on their interpretation. we sanction anyone who does not conform to our european vision. what is this but neo-colonialism? but the 21st century is the century of multipolarity, and that's why what we have to do is diplomacy. we must reach out to those who have different traditions and understandings in other parts of the world, but first of all we must help them to understand each other. so why such european arrogance when diplomacy, exchange and convergence are necessary? that is why we shall vote against it. it starts with the name magnitsky, where it's not clear what happened, and it goes on to say that we think we have to rule the world with our ideas. ladies and gentlemen, this is the 21st century, not the 19th, and i think that's fine.
mr president, the situation in tigray is dramatic, all colleagues said this already and despite the fact that the ceasefire from 28 june is a good step, we need a permanent ceasefire and we need the withdrawal of the foreign troops from the region. our solidarity is with the people of tigray in ethiopia. we condemn the destruction of infrastructure, this is something very horrible. i mean, people are starving already, people get raped and there are others that destroy infrastructure that is urgently needed in this situation. this has to be stopped immediately. and we urge a cessation of human rights violations in the region and seek secure access for humanitarian aid. i ask the commission to step up the pressure on the authorities because this situation can no longer be accepted. we have to help the people in the region. and so i ask you: urge them to move and to change.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this conflict is a challenge to the peace process in this region. how do the allegations made by our representative that the ethiopian government wanted to "eliminate the tigrayans for 100 years", even if it is a quote, fit with the desire to promote peace in the horn of africa? why was this claim not discussed with the relevant authorities rather than published? why did we not send an election observation mission while other international observers were present? famine is striking at the gates of this region. rape, sexual violence is being used as a weapon of war. let us seize the opportunity of the ceasefire to renew cooperation and facilitate humanitarian aid. the european union must take up the torch of peace, support independent investigations into allegations of human rights violations, respect partnership, and listen to the people in order to accelerate the process of reconciliation.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the geneva convention on refugees is a document of humanity and charity. after the second world war and the cold war, it protected persecuted and displaced persons, but it also respects national sovereignty, the right to national identity and the distinction between citizens and foreigners. the convention does not provide for a general right to asylum, nor does it provide for the right to naturalization or to cross borders illegally. article 31 requires safe third countries to grant temporary asylum to only the nearest safe third countries , to persecuted persons and to only those whose life and freedom are threatened in their home country until they return to their home country. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. mrs merkel's opening of borders since 2015 does not authorize the refugee convention, nor does it authorize transcontinental settlement projects such as the eu migration pact or the de-europeanization of europe. that's why you want to revise the convention and expand its asylum grounds to include climate and abortion rights. because, if the convention is interpreted literally, hundreds or thousands of people a year would have a genuine claim to asylum, but you want tens of millions of migrants.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are launching today two funds to support member states in their migration policy. i say this deliberately, because we are doing this to support member states, because with these funds we are also drawing the lessons of the migration crisis of 2015/16. we have - the commissioner has just said this - the instruments which were then used ad hoc are now being consolidated, and at the same time the member states enjoy flexibility in the use of these funds, which is very important. we are also strengthening the countries that receive the most migrants, by enabling them to receive higher levels of support. the funds are used to help those who come to the community to integrate. we support resettlement, which means that we create legal pathways for those who are most vulnerable to come to us in europe. but at the same time, of course, we are also making it possible to encourage returns through the fund. i believe that we have a good balance between the possibilities available to the member states. the second fund is to strengthen border security. and it is particularly important for me to make it clear once again that what is at stake now is for the member states to call on and use these funds. the aim is that we in the european union have good external border protection, but inside the european union we have all the freedoms and no borders. i therefore expect the member states to call up the funds and then to stop diverging from the schengen acquis and also to abolish all the border controls that have been in place within the european union. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator in the world of immigration. please get on board and work constructively with us to finally have a common european asylum and migration system that works, based on the values of the rule of law and humanity, and that includes solidarity with all member states where many refugees arrive.
madam president, at the beginning of this term we made a promise, a europe that protects, and while we saw new challenges emerging we also prepared ourselves better. an important part of that other funds we’re debating right now is an increased budget supporting not only border protection and migration management, but also measures of solidarity and integration. but where funds are crucial and closer cooperation is well received we also need to be aware of the broader dimension. last week, the last year, unfortunately proved that the european union is, and probably will be again, faced with neighbours like erdoğan, lukashenko or others, neighbours that are not only questioning our way of life but that are trying to attack and destabilise the european union as a whole, instrumentalising both the current stalemate on the pact and people already in a vulnerable situation. our answer to that needs to be firm. protecting our member states under pressure, solving the stalemate, and backing the european agencies providing their support on our behalf, for a europe that protects.
i have to say, madam president, this european council has once again shown the ambivalence of european internal and external policy. on the one hand, we have seen clear signals towards minsk. we need more creative solutions here, including solutions that help people who have to flee to us. on the other hand, we have also seen that the cold geostrategy towards turkey is taking precedence over the values we stand for. we must be clear that the rule of law and human rights are priorities in turkey. but we also saw something else. we have seen the difference between leadership in the eu and arrogance of power. we have seen with the surprise move from berlin and paris on russia policy how it is not to be that we should push forward on the backs of the smaller member states in russia policy. the berlin and paris proposals were rejected, and we see: the eu stands by what the greens as the european party have always said in relation to russia: dialogue yes, but with red lines. dialogue and toughness.
mr president, commissioner jourová, today, despite all odds, is a day of hope. it has been three years since we initiated article 7 against hungary. three years of big words and empty threats. three years over which the deconstruction of the hungarian democracy has accelerated. every day orbán's government violates the rules that our freedom as a european community are built on. rules to safeguard the free press and show fair elections, to ensure the independence of judges, rules to protect the diversity of our societies. the new law is another terrible example of how orbán violates these rules. but today still is a day of hope, because today the european commission has the power to change this course; because today parliament and council stand behind you asking for a strong response; because today the rule of law mechanism is in place; and finally, because today you have the power to make the payment of seven billion euros, equalling 5% of hungary’s annual gdp, conditional on the change of course. so i urge you to use these powers, then today can be a day of hope.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the content of the directive. you could read that in hungarian newspapers close to the government. there's talk of gay propaganda on netflix: glee is a particularly dangerous show. or, "game of thrones" on hbo, there are way too many gay characters. that is also against it. ladies and gentlemen, i want to be very clear: if you think that watching netflix will make you gay, you have not understood anything at all, ladies and gentlemen! and this would be ridiculous, this would be ridiculous if it wasn't so serious, if it wasn't about the future existence of associations, of aid organizations, of the public, of the lgbt community in hungary as a whole. this is the putinisation of hungary we are witnessing. and tolerance is not western or liberal, it is human. and the protection of sexual minorities is not something that is brought here from brussels to the member states. it is something that all the member states have committed themselves to in article 2. and, damn it, i expect that now there will be a reaction and that we will finally see action on this issue! i can't explain standing here anymore, and i can't explain to any gay, lesbian woman in europe that this isn't finally happening.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, as always when we discuss values, this has been a very heavy, difficult and important debate, because this is the – if i may use the word – agenda where we simply cannot make any compromises. that’s why i want to add a few words from the side of the commission. i said very clearly at the beginning that we fully recognise the need to protect children, and we also have this strengthened protection in our strategy, which we recently adopted. we fully recognise the right of parents to educate their children. this is essential, but we also need to safeguard fundamental rights by not pitting one right against another. i want to stress one more thing. this was not a discussion targeted against the hungarian and polish people. i need to say it. i really feel the need to say this, as a person who comes from central europe. this has been a debate which was critical – mainly critical. there were of course voices supporting the governments in poland and hungary, but most of the voices i heard were critical of the political course of the current leading political powers in both countries. this is the course of turning against part of the society. this is the course of turning against their own citizens, labelling them, stigmatising them and portraying them as public enemies, as paedophiles even, which is not expressed clearly in the law, but it is raising this image and raising these reactions from the public. this is confusing me, because it is exactly putin’s playbook. we see this in today’s russia: the stigmatisation of lgbti people. the experts speak about the sexualisation of the enemy, and putin does not risk anything. he is just gaining political popularity, because he is targeting the people who are not able to defend themselves. this is the method we are following in european member states, or in one member state at this moment. this is very worrying, this is confusing, and i think this is something we have to work against. i described at the beginning all the tools which are available for the commission to act against such a law. i also want to react to several members of the parliament who spoke about some historical parallels. i am always careful about using these comparisons with the war, but you mentioned the concentration camps several times. the last one was mr biedroń here. i’d like you to believe me that i am thinking a lot about these issues, about the situation in europe and the very dangerous trends which we see, namely, the labelling of people and making them second-class citizens. whenever i am in doubt about how to continue, whether we are not too critical, whether we should not leave the member states to go their way under the flag of sovereignty, i listen again and again to the speech that marian turski gave in auschwitz last year in january. it was the authentic voice of somebody who survived the holocaust. he didn’t speak about the past; he spoke about the present. he repeated several times, ‘do not be indifferent when the minorities are attacked in europe, because this is the start of something which we saw in the past’. it’s our obligation to listen to the voice of marian turski and others who are warning us: do not be indifferent and do something. do not be passive. but it’s not only for the commission – and many of you were addressing me, ‘do something, act’ – but it’s for the council, for the member states, it’s for the civil society to be vocal, and, at the end of the day, of course, it’s for the voters in the countries who see that their governments are doing something wrong. so i think the commission is doing the right thing to introduce measures to protect the elections, which belong to the democratic architecture, but this is another story. i will come back. many of you were asking how we shall use the instruments to stop funding to the countries that do not respect the union’s values. i said in this place some time ago that i am convinced that those who does not understand our values might at least understand the money. it was criticised by many, but i still believe it’s true, so i fully understand your questions. first, on what guy verhofstadt asked me, i just checked now with the president’s cabinet and with the colleagues responsible for the recovery fund’s adoption and assessment, and there is no such news that we would stop it. the process is ongoing. we are, of course, looking into the audit and control systems in the member states, and i want to recall that the decision on the approval of the individual plans of the member states is to be taken by the council by qualified majority. it’s not for the commission. the commission might of course stop it when we see issues there. i cannot confirm at this moment that has happened, so the german press was not right. still staying with the financial instruments, we were of course fighting for the budget conditionality for three years, and many times in this place i thanked the parliament for its support. when i came up with this idea in 2017, it was like another scandalous idea. how come we would stop the funding? in the meantime, it gained a lot of support because we simply see that, if we distribute more money with less trust, we will pay a horrible price for such a systemic error. so that’s why i can confirm here that the commission is ready to launch the procedure under the conditionality regulation in due time. we are working on that. there is of course the court of justice decision pending, but we are working intensively. you can read the guidelines where we make it clear how the proportionality principle should be applied, and so on. here again, my comment on the citizens. we should not turn against any citizens from any member state to punish them for who they voted for. we have to apply the principle of proportionality and be fair, because the principles of fairness and proportionality are in the regulation itself. in the guidelines we are reacting to that; we are making it more specific, describing the procedures, and so on. but again, i confirm on behalf of the commission that we are ready to use the conditionality in full. on article 7, i can confirm what i said at the beginning. we will continue as long as it is needed. it is of course for the council, but for the commission, on my side, i do not find this procedure totally useless. i have said many times that it’s not an atomic bomb. this nickname is sometimes used for it, but it’s neither atomic nor a bomb. this is the process where we discuss with the respective member states the issues at stake. the hearing we had last time was useful, and i was thankful to the portuguese presidency for having organised this hearing. we can of course continue on the way towards the recommendation, which requires four fifths of the votes. i already discussed this with both upcoming presidencies, the slovenian and french presidencies, and said that i would recommend doing that. it’s for the council. as for the possible sanction, well, we need unanimity. we will of course follow the exact wording of the treaty, and there unanimity is needed for the final decision. just to be clear on that. i don’t want to get stuck on arithmetic, but i would like to recall to all of us that the final number of the member states supporting the declaration against the hungarian law was, i think, 18. so we should also be aware of the political realities of today. but again, i was discussing with both upcoming presidencies that we should move. a last comment. i know i am speaking horribly long – mr president, give me two minutes. i cannot skip it. i want to send all my support and hopes for peter de vries, who was injured. the protection of journalists and the protection of the media belong to the story of protecting the rule of law in the eu. journalists are not safe in europe. i am so unhappy to say that. the question is: how many murdered or injured journalists do we need to increase the protection of journalists in the eu? i have to recall the fact that ensuring the safety of citizens belongs to the competences of the member states, and the commission will issue recommendations on how to increase the protection of our journalists, because murdered or injured journalists invoke the question of whether we are becoming the wild west again. this is absolutely intolerable, and the member states have to do their job to protect them. when a journalist announces that he is under online threats, it means something, and the police have to react. there must be action taken from the law enforcement side in the member states. of course, i don’t know the situation of peter de vries, whether he was under these threats. i have to go into the case or to read more about that today. we also want to protect journalists against abusive litigation. i hear the stories of many journalists who tell me, ‘we are preparing a case, we are investigating, we have enough evidence against the people in power – be it rich, powerful politicians, i don’t know, whoever – and we expect harsh action against us’. that’s why i think it also belongs to our debate on the rule of law, that journalists should not be silenced by means of judiciary powers. so we have a lot of work in the eu. this work will never be finished. we need to work together and find ways to give the message to our citizens that we will be protecting their rights and we will be protecting the eu values. thank you very much. (applause)
madam vice-president, you have spoken to the debate. i would like to say, from my point of view, that this debate was largely, almost entirely, characterized by mutual respect and by the values and principles enshrined in the treaties and in particular in the charter of fundamental rights. and that, i think, is the essence of liberal european democracy. if we respect our rights and values and treat each other with respect, we can also express our opinions in a stylish way - that is what makes the european parliament the house of europe's citizens. i now give the floor to mr anže logar, president-in-office of the council, to answer, in particular, the question of the passage of article 7 of the gordian knot, which has become a blunt weapon in recent years because of the unanimity principle. i hope you can tell us how to beat him.
the chairman of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you for this intense discussion on topics that are very important for the safeguarding of common values. not with regard to article 7 and given the criticisms made of the presidency's activities. in this respect, i note that the proceeding against poland was initiated on 20 december 2017 and that during this period four hearings within the general affairs council took place in a row. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of third countries referred to in paragraph 1 by adding the following: in the meantime, seven presidencies have taken place: bulgaria, austria, romania, finland, croatia, germany and portugal. the commission has also received comments from interested parties, including from the hearing officer in trade proceedings, on the initiation of the anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain footwear with uppers of leather originating in the people's republic of china. thus, in defence of the presidency's activities in the tripartite presidency in which slovenia participates, it was impossible to hold hearings in the general affairs council in the first part and as soon as the epidemiological situation made this possible, the portuguese presidency held this hearing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the presidency cannot prejudge its own activities, but if you have examined in detail the preliminary agendas submitted by the presidency, the hearing is part of the seventh item on the agenda of the slovenian presidency. ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, the honourable commissioner. the presidency attaches great importance to respect for the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. the institutions of the european union and the member states share a responsibility to respect, protect and promote our common values. i would like to reassure and underline that the slovenian presidency will use the tools at its disposal in the prevention and response framework to promote a common culture of the rule of law in the european union. i also look forward to working with the european parliament and the commission on these key issues, which are at the heart of our european union values and also at the heart of the priorities set out by the slovenian presidency.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 8 july 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. please read the law! (the previous sections can be found in the written comments of tamás deutsch, ádám kósa, járóka lívia, tóth edina) lxxix. law of 2021 on a stricter approach to pedophile offenders and certain laws for the protection of children 5.act 2010 on media services and mass communication the amendment of act clxxxv of 2010 (1) the act clxxxv of 2010 on media services and mass communications (hereinafter referred to as 'mttv. article 9 (1) is replaced by the following: (a) a media service provider providing a linear media service - with the exception of news programmes, political information programmes, sports programmes, programme previews and political advertising, television purchases, social advertising and public interest announcements - shall publish all the information it has obtained from the media service provider in the form of a news item, a political information programme, a sports programme, a programme preview and political advertising, a television purchase, a social advertising and a public interest announcement. the number of the programme requested shall be indicated in the following format: (2) paragraph 9 (6) of the ccc is replaced by the following: (6) programmes which are likely to affect the physical, mental or moral development of minors adversely, in particular by having as a determining element violence, deviation from the self-identification of the sex of birth, non-change of the commission has also been active in promoting the rights of homosexuals and the promotion of homosexuality. the programme is classified as category v. it is not recommended for persons under the age of 18.
in writing. please read the law. lxxix. law of 2021 on a stricter approach to pedophilia offenders and on certain laws for the protection of children the child is a minor and is not entitled to any childcare benefit. amendment to act xxxi § 1 (1) on the protection and administration of childcare the purpose and principles of the act. the following subheading is added to section 3/a. 'in order to ensure the objectives and rights of children set out in this act, it is prohibited to make pornography and content that purposely depicts sexuality or is in conformity with the gender of birth available to persons under the age of eighteen.' ̋ e the owner of a farm who is not a farmer, but a farmer who is a farmer, is not a farmer who is a farmer, and is not a farmer who is a farmer. in article 8 of law xlviii of 2008 on the basic conditions and certain restrictions on advertising activities, the following paragraph (1a) is added: (1a) advertising that deliberately depicts sexuality, promotes deviation from gender identity, gender reassignment and homosexuality shall be prohibited.
in writing. please read the lxxix. law of 2021. the previous paragraphs are found in the written comments of tamás deutsch, bocskor andrea, tóth edina, ádám kósa. the fifth. the amendment of the media services and mass communications act clxxxv of 2010 (3) in article 32 of the ccc, the following paragraph (4a) is added: (4a) a programme which is likely to have a negative impact on the proper physical, mental and moral development of children, in particular by having as its dominant element the depiction of sexuality for its own sake, pornography and the promotion of deviation from the self-identity of the sex of birth, non-change and homosexuality, is not a communication in the public interest or advertising with a social purpose. other the following table is added: paragraph 1 of article 168/a is replaced by the following: the media council shall draw up an annual monitoring plan by 1 december of the year preceding the year in question, taking into account the monitoring experience of the previous year, and shall publish it on its website within 15 days. the media council shall pay particular attention to the protection of children and minors when preparing the annual monitoring plan. the media council shall ensure consistency of the monitoring plans it draws up. the plans may be reviewed at the end of the semester in the light of the experience gained in the first half of the year and may be amended by the media council if necessary. the revised monitoring plan shall be published by the media council on its website within 15 days of the amendment.
in writing. the overwhelming majority of european heads of state were outraged by the anti-lgbtiq law introduced by viktor orbán in hungary. and rightly so. this law goes against the welfare of children by censoring content about homosexuality or lgbtiq rights. i welcome the reaction of most heads of state and government, but it must not stop there. i call on the council to trigger article 7 against this illiberal government. we cannot remain silent in the face of this anti-lgbtiq law which goes against everything the european union stands for. but membership of the european union means, among other things, respect for common fundamental values, whether the hungarian leader likes it or not. this is not an à la carte menu. let us protect what is most precious to us, the freedom of our people.
in writing. please read the law! (previous sections can be found in the written comments of tamás deutsch, bocskor andrea, járóka lívia, tóth edina) law lxxix of 2021 on a stricter approach to pedophile offenders and amending certain laws to protect children title 6 of the cc on the protection of families of 2011 amendment to law xi. section 10 (1) paragraph 1 (1) of the ccxi family protection act 2011 (hereinafter 'the act') is replaced by the following:(1) the state shall protect the institution of the family and marriage, including the parent-child relationship which forms the basis of the family relationship, on the basis of their inherent dignity and value, in particular by ensuring that the mother is not the sole or only parent of the child. (2) paragraph 1 (2) of the code is replaced by the following: of ■3) the following section 5/a is added to the code: 5/a. section for the purposes of this act and to protect children, pornography and the making available of content purposely depicting sexuality to persons under the age of 18 are prohibited. i the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data.
in writing. article 7 teu aims to ensure that all eu countries respect the common values of the union, as set out in article 2 teu, including the rule of law. the european parliament has always been very active in addressing the challenges related to the rule of law in the eu, in particular by adopting resolutions initiating the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure with regard to both countries. since then, and particularly in the wake of the deterioration of the situation with regard to respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in both countries, parliament has continued to call on the council to act under the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure; it is a crucial matter to ensure respect for the values of the european union and, above all, respect for the rule of law.
in writing. – the overwhelming majority of the council members were outraged by the anti-lgbtiq law orbán introduced in hungary. rightfully so. orbán has crossed redlines before but that was a new low. i welcome the response by most heads of state and government but it should not stop here. the council needs to trigger article 7 against this hungarian government. all legal means should be applied in order to show orbán that he has gone too far. we are a union of values whether orbán likes it or not. he does not want to listen to reason, he therefore must face the consequences. the hungarian anti-lgbtiq law goes against everything the european union stands for. when you are a member of the eu, you sign up to our values. it is not an ‘a la carte’ menu. we need to stand up against the deteriorating situation of lgbtiq-rights in hungary. we have to take action and hold the hungarian government accountable. this is about protecting what is most precious, the freedom of our people.
in writing. i support the eu commission in asking the hungarian government for an explanation. we stand for a europe of freedom and tolerance. all member states must respect these values. there can be no place in the eu for discrimination and laws which are against people's fundamental freedoms. our basic rights are non-negotiable. the new hungarian law, which bans the 'representation and promotion of homosexuality' and puts homosexuality in a context of child pornography, discriminates against people based on their sexual orientation. and we can't let that happen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, it must be said that the covid strategy and the vaccination strategy of the european parliament have completely failed. we have heard it before: today there are not only travel restrictions, there are also passenger locator forms, there are declarations of honour and so on. there's a patchwork carpet across europe. there is no single strategy or single rule of law, and you stand up and think this is a great success. there you go. but it's not just the covid certificate strategy that has failed, it's the vaccine strategy that has failed. the israeli ministry of health has just found that even the biontech-pfizer vaccine has reduced its effectiveness against the delta variant by over 30%. what's it gonna look like at epsilon, kappa, lambda or my? not to mention omega! the only thing that the alarmism of the eu has produced here is a single enrichment programme for the pharmaceutical industry. unfortunately, the citizens have had relatively little of all the eu's activities. the first thing they have had to live with, in addition to the payments to the pharmaceutical industry, is the restriction of their fundamental rights and freedom of movement, and they have to continue to live with it. so the eu's covid strategy was a mistake from the start, and now it has also failed completely in the face of the many variants of the virus. billions of euros have been spent on verbalisation and no vaccine protection has been achieved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the covid certificate digitally verifies whether the holder has been vaccinated, tested negative, or recovered from covid-19. the commission claims that the certificate guarantees the free movement of persons within the eu. compatibility with systems in non-eu countries also facilitates further travel abroad. under eu law, the certificate is not a prerequisite for entry into other member states. the commission also considers that it does not discriminate against non-vaccinated people. so far, so good. i'm going to go. however, member states are free to allow entry only to holders of a certificate. this would allow vaccinated people to enter freely, while non-vaccinated people would have to be tested repeatedly at each border crossing. in the end, this means discrimination against the unvaccinated: the vaccinated travel freely, the unvaccinated travel only with a test. so in the future, anyone who wants to exercise their fundamental rights without restriction or who has to travel a lot will have to get vaccinated. vaccination was once thought to protect against disease. today, it is used in the eu to protect against dispossession.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the pandemic has brought suffering and death to europe, and i hope that next time we will be better prepared. but i also have to say, the supply shortages of drugs that we've seen in this pandemic have been there before, and they've been a big problem before. i am therefore pleased that we now have a majority in this parliament in favour of ensuring that all citizens in the european union have access to affordable and effective medicines. and it's good that the european medicines agency is now taking on this coordinating role, that more transparency is coming in, that it's not the people on the front line - in the clinic, in the pharmacy - or the patients who are the last to know that their medicine is not available again. i hope that in this parliament, when the criteria for marketing authorization are revised, we will also find a majority in favour of making manufacturers more responsible in order to remain supplierable even in difficult situations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 8th environment action programme is the instrument we use to monitor the implementation of the green deal, and that's why it's so valuable, because it's not just the planetary boundaries that are in the text, it's not just the criteria for nature-based solutions that are included, it's not just the one health approach that is addressed, which is a holistic view of human, animal and environmental health. the most important point, in my view, is that the inclusion of the cost of non-action has been included in the impact assessment of our legislative proposals. because up to now, maintaining the basic necessities of life has been a pure cost factor - as if there were clean air, clean water, fertile soil at zero cost. the german federal environment agency has calculated the cost of damage years ago: every ton of co2 we emit today will cause damage of about 640 euros in the year 2100. and it is time that we finally express in dollars and cents the damage we are leaving to our children and grandchildren. because it is the only language that will allow us to move forward in the market economy that we have.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. to describe the green deal, the image of the watermelon is quite appropriate: green on the outside and red on the inside. at first glance, it seems to be about climate targets, species conservation, air pollution. but if you look under the hood, it's also about social progress. our economies are closely linked to climate change, species extinction and pollution. at the same time, social inequalities are growing. the green deal has already shown that there is another way. it is the vision of a europe where all people can live well within the planetary boundaries. it lays important foundations, but we need the new environment action programme to keep the eu on track beyond this legislature with social, environmental objectives and mechanisms for review and follow-up. it was therefore important to sharpen the commission's proposal precisely here: we must not put renewable growth, but human welfare, health and the protection of our natural resources at the centre of our policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 2030 environment action programme is an important pillar in our fight against climate change and for greater sustainability. and in this crucial decade, the environment action programme must not be primarily a monitoring programme. innovative solutions are needed. courage to create sustainable content instead of headlines. in this sense, we also need a realistic and pragmatic approach. all stakeholders must be involved. that's why i'm for a holistic approach. no one should be left out, especially not our farmers. the potential of agriculture and forestry, mr commissioner, as well as that of the individual actors in the food systems and supply chains, must be taken into account in this systemically important sector. only then can real and honest change be achieved. let us therefore unleash our diversity of possibilities in europe!
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the designation of marine protected areas in antarctica and the conservation of biodiversity in the southern ocean (2021/2757 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 8 july 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs margarida marques, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the review of the macroeconomic legal framework with a view to improving its impact on the real economy in europe and increasing the transparency of decision-making and democratic accountability (2020/2075 (ini)) (a9-0212/2021).
you have exceeded your speaking time by a full minute, that is truly exceptional.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 8 july 2021.
the sitting is closed and will resume at 9 a.m. tomorrow with the announcement of the results of the second round of voting today. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not thank you, commissioner, for this exchange today. you said it very well: the preferential access to the single market, free of customs duties and taxes, is a great opportunity for many developing countries to give their citizens prospects for economic progress and development. but this cooperation is based on rules, and that includes respect for labour rights and compliance with agreements. bangladesh will make the transition from one of the world's least developed countries to one with real development prospects in the next few years. what a tremendous social advance that is! that is why it is so important that we should talk about the future of trade relations today. because our cooperation is already being tested today. what do you want it to be like in the future? so it's good that we're having this discussion. and it is good to hear that the commission has finally got a clear idea of what this cooperation can look like and that you now have this action plan. we don't have it yet. i therefore hope that the action plan will also be made public. we in parliament will analyse this very carefully. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the first step in combating child labour is to improve the education system. children have to go to school in the morning, not to the factory. that is why it is so important that the government of bangladesh finally makes a clear commitment to labour rights. and it's good that we have this detailed plan of action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for many people, especially in countries like bangladesh, this means self-determination and concrete ways out of poverty. but economic development must always go hand in hand with human rights. and as a trading partner, you have to be able to rely on each other. that is why it is so important for our future economic cooperation that we look closely now and set clear rules for cooperation, especially on labour rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. child labour and women forced to work in slave-like conditions are unfortunately commonplace in bangladesh. what are we gonna do? we give speeches on sundays and we force our companies to control their subcontractors, their subcontractors and their subcontractors in bangladesh. it's not gonna work. we need to identify the root of the problem. the root of the problem is that bangladesh is officially a democracy, and there is officially freedom of religion. but neither is true. in bangladesh there is an authoritarian regime which, with the help of islamists, is tyrannizing the people. nowhere are there more child marriages than in bangladesh. domestic violence against women is the norm. christians and hindus are being murdered, their houses and churches are being burned by islamists. trade unionists, opposition politicians and journalists are being murdered in the open by islamists. we must finally identify the root of the problem, and the root is the inhuman ideology of islam, the very ideology that is constantly belittled and - more than that - supported and courted here. and it's got to stop. we must finally identify the real problems.
mr president, on the one hand we have a developing country, bangladesh, which specialises in textiles and attracts manufacturers who benefit from unfair working conditions and pay, it has been said, from the steadily falling wages, from the thousands of children who work in the textile industry. on the other hand, we have a european union that imports unimaginable quantities of clothing, most of which is worn only once. let me remind you that textiles are 3 billion tons of co2 a year. so you have bangladesh at the heart of this social and environmental devastation. to get out of this impasse, we must continue to put pressure on the companies, it has been said. there's the 2013 agreement, the one that happened after rana plaza. it is insufficient, even if it puts the unions at the heart of the decision-making process. the problem is that you now have european companies, which belong to other continents, who are putting incredible pressure to challenge the meager progress of this agreement. we must resist the pressure of the lobbies. we must tighten up the legislation, particularly on the duty of vigilance. finally, i think we must revise the system of generalised preferences so that it finally makes the ilo conventions effective and gives priority to working conditions in the beneficiary countries, which has not been allowed so far.
mr president, commissioner, it is true that bangladesh, as has been said, is the world's tailoring workshop. ready-to-wear represents 84% of its exports, mainly to the european union. rana plaza has shown the world the underbelly of what is called fast fashion which, in disregard of social and environmental rights, has built a form of modern slavery. today, the minimum wage for women in these companies is $67 a month, while the need for a household to live in bangladesh is 360 euros a month. these multinational companies, such as h&m, c&a or primark, continue to be irresponsible when they decide not to pay for orders because they could not deliver them during covid. so yes, we have to force these companies. of course, we need laws that make it possible to guarantee a value chain that respects social and environmental rights at the level of the european union. commissioner, inciting them is not going to help. this does indeed provide some advantages, some guarantees, but it does not change the model. because the model they use is to sell more and more, always cheaper, and that's what they'll do if they don't have to do otherwise. it's our responsibility to force them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have been listening to the debate from the beginning, and there is a consensus that the situation in bangladesh is terrible and that it is time to put more pressure. the situation in bangladesh is clearly not satisfactory. but the first thing i have to ask you is: don't you see that we have a development that we might think is a little bit too slow, but that has been a lot of progress in bangladesh since 2013, which is now being confirmed by international audit organizations? the second question is: what is our alternative? if we actually put so much pressure on the bangladeshi people that they don't have the business model anymore, how are they going to feed their ever-growing population? it is one thing that we stand here and demand standards, which i expressly agree with. but it has to happen that these people have a perspective in their home country, and at least in the past and until now we see that bangladesh is making good progress and will have moved up from the status of the poorest countries in a few years. i therefore ask for more restraint and for the interests of the people of bangladesh to be taken into account, who need a further development perspective.
mr. president, eight years ago the textile factory in rana plaza collapsed. 1,134 people died under its rubble and more than 2,600 were injured. but the foundations of global capitalism did not hold. rana plaza is one of thousands of links in the endless and unfair global value chains. rana plaza is one of the thousands of back-office stores in the clothing showcases of european multinationals. rana plaza remains today an example of the impunity of corporate power. the families of the victims are still not being compensated. no one takes responsibility for the deaths. everything is still the same. why would you do that? because no one is forcing them to. and rana plaza is further proof of the futility of voluntary systems of corporate social responsibility and of institutional collusion with this global system of injustice, exploitation and death. rana plaza demonstrates that we need binding rules and exemplary sanctions against corporate power.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate really confirms that we share very serious concerns regarding labour rights in bangladesh. bangladesh’s full alignment with international standards on human and labour rights remains crucial, also in view of the eu’s current legislative work on the future regulation on the generalised scheme of preferences. as i stated in my opening remarks, bangladesh is expected to graduate from the least developed country status in 2026. the authorities of bangladesh have already communicated their interest in accessing the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), our flagship arrangement for middle—income countries, in order to maintain duty free access to our market for their exports, especially in the textiles ready-made garment sector. gsp+, however, demands stricter commitments from beneficiaries in terms of human rights and labour rights. if bangladesh wishes to benefit from the gsp+ arrangement in future, after its graduation from its status of least developed country, the government will have to demonstrate concrete progress on labour and human rights issues now. on our side, during the ongoing gsp regulation review, we are seriously looking into opening the path towards gsp+ to all graduating least developed countries, including bangladesh. however, and moreover, the upcoming mandatory sustainable corporate governance initiative, a legislative initiative in the commission work programme for this year, will address the issue of labour rights in supply chains. it will make mandatory the exercise by european operators of due diligence on their supply chains. this will include assessing the risk of violations of, inter alia, labour rights. this should be another reason for the government of bangladesh to address urgently and thoroughly systemic and long-standing labour rights issues. bangladesh’s national action plan on the labour sector contains relevant and time—bound labour reforms. if fully and correctly implemented, these reforms will ensure a qualitative step forward in terms of enhancing labour rights in bangladesh. our enhanced engagement with the bangladeshi authorities will remain in place to monitor timely and effective implementation of these reforms. we will also continue to coordinate with the ilo in this endeavour. our engagement with bangladesh on sustainable development goes, however, even further. the commission services have earmarked funding from the current multiannual indicative programme for technical assistance to support the government of bangladesh in implementing the national action plan. lastly, we are aware of ongoing discussions between brands and trade unions on the accord, which is about to expire. we strongly encourage parties to come to an agreement that will strengthen factory safety in bangladesh. we are at an important junction in our relationship. we are hopeful that the national action plan will be followed and implemented to the mutual benefit of bangladeshi workers and businesses. we count on the authorities of bangladesh to honour their commitment to respect core human and labour rights, which are the condition for the country to continue benefiting from the eu’s unilateral trade preferences. we know that we can count on this house to continue to pursue the promotion of labour rights worldwide, and i thank you for this.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the steady rise in raw material and construction materials prices in europe (2021/2783 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i really want to thank parliament for putting this issue on the agenda. we are experiencing sustained price increases of raw materials and construction materials. the covid-19 pandemic and related containment measures have had a significant impact on the eu industrial sector. supply chains were disrupted within and outside our single market. the disruption presented our companies with logistical challenges in the planning of production and stock management and this has resulted in shortages of products and raw materials, as well as increased prices for producers. for instance, global shipping costs saw huge increases: almost 400% during the pandemic. this pressure on prices of some industrial products is a global trend, and it affects the important world markets – europe, the us and china. in some cases, prices have reached their highest level since 2008. the commission is monitoring the current disruptions in supply chains. we are seeing shortages in the supply of metals, minerals and wood, which in turn is leading to price pressures. the situation may well be temporary as it is mainly due to temporary imbalances between supply and demand factors in these specific sectors. on the supply side, the increase in prices of raw materials particularly affects industrial ecosystems that are largely dependent on primary inputs such as the construction sector. and here, the increase in the prices of imported inputs, such as steel and in particular wood products, is significant. the inflationary pressure is less severe for plastic products and is not significant for glass and concrete. the commission is currently analysing the scope, the magnitude and the potential outlook of this phenomenon in close cooperation with construction industry stakeholders. on the demand side, there are also global factors that are shaping price dynamics. the strong economic recovery in china and in the us, together with an unprecedented investment boom, adds pressure on aggregate demand for such products. eu policies – successfully driving demand for construction and renovation – also contribute to this phenomenon. analyses indicate that the prices of raw materials are the main cause of recent price increases of industrial inputs. that has also been affecting the construction sector. as indicated in the updated eu strategy, the impact of the crisis on the single market showed how restrictions caused major disruptions to the free movement of people, goods, services and capital. these restrictions profoundly affect value chains and economic activity. the capacity of stakeholders in our industrial ecosystem to quickly start and scale-up production was seriously constrained, and this is why the commission is particularly vigilant and active to ensure a good functioning of the single market. and we are monitoring closely measures taken by third countries that might fuel further price increases. the updated eu industrial strategy and the underpinning analysis indicate strategic dependencies for certain inputs and products. however, these strategic dependencies do not explain the peaks of prices. this is down to the accumulated and increased demand due to the economic recovery. across the eu, the improvement in the public health situation is seeing sectors of the economy reopen for business, and we know that europe can exploit more efficiently the existing potential for some raw materials and construction materials and in some cases cover domestically a more significant amount of our own demand. we have a strong industrial base, and together with stepping up our efforts towards circularity, we can reduce our strategic dependencies and continue to grow. let me now give you an overview of some of the actions the commission has taken. we adopted the eu covid-19 recovery plan and the eu action plan on critical raw materials last year and updated the industrial strategy this may. these communications list several eu actions that will improve the eu’s open strategic autonomy and foster the transition towards a green and digital economy. in order to develop resilient value chains for eu industrial ecosystems we have launched a number of industrial alliances, including for raw materials, batteries and hydrogen. the commission will soon launch additional industrial alliances. in order to address specific challenges and to identify actions enabling the twin digital and green transition we are developing, together with industry, social partners and other stakeholders, transition pathways for industrial ecosystems. around eur 300 million has been allocated for raw materials topics under our research and innovation programme horizon europe in 2021 and 2022, to improve sourcing of primary and secondary raw materials and boost circularity and resource efficiency in the single market. we will also submit a proposal this year to review the rules on waste shipments. this and other measures from the 2020 circular economy action plan, as well as the forthcoming construction product regulation revision, will also help to improve circularity. we will further explore international partnerships and cooperation to address strategic dependencies and diversify supply with sustainable and responsible sourcing from third countries, enabling undistorted trade and investment. we will also undertake a periodic review of strategic dependencies and monitor the associated risks. member states have also developed their national recovery and resilience plans to guide the more than eur 672 billion of investments from the recovery and resilience fund. supporting activities in relation to raw materials can be one of the possibilities for member states to pursue the objective of strengthening economic and social resilience. the investeu programme can also support investment in raw materials, including through its sustainable infrastructure policy window. honourable members, i look forward to this debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. you may know people who are considering building or renovating a house today. you may know carpenters, bricklayers, roofers, electricians, plasterers, who get up at five in the morning to build or renovate these very houses, or the heads of companies with five to ten men or women who are the heart of the construction industry. these people, like me, have certainly told you in the last few weeks what they are struggling with. because they either don't get the building materials or they get them at double the price. here are some figures: for example, timber rose 83 percent, roofing slats 46 percent, construction timber 38 percent, and steel 150 percent, and the cost of building materials increased by more than 40 percent. but why is that? the reasons are international trade, covid-related production bottlenecks, another construction boom, and in the wood sector, even the bark beetle. so the market determines where scarce resources go, to the highest bidder. we are planning the wave of renewal for europe. building or renovating is simply impossible with these price trends and this limited supply. the question is therefore whether the market is calming down, i.e. whether these developments are cyclical or structural. the commission must urgently investigate this matter. commissioner breton visited infineon last week and is working on a strategy for semiconductor manufacturing in europe. we also want the commission to work on a strategy for securing or producing building materials at affordable prices. for example, wood is one of the very few raw materials that europe itself has that grows in europe. whether this particular wood now needs to be exported in containers to china or the usa, although the roofing contractor can no longer find wood here, is at least a question you have to investigate. the many small and mediumsized enterprises, but also the families who are willing to build, expect their problems to be taken seriously.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-president of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i am very pleased that we are debating today a very important subject, namely construction materials, the lack of construction materials, and i congratulate the commission and i congratulate you, commissioner, on your reminder in your speech that we have this plan for reindustrialisation, for the industrialisation of the european union from may onwards, and we also have the plan for scarce raw materials. obviously, this includes raw materials and building materials. finally, it is important that we take into account - and when i say we, i am thinking of the commission, of course, of the parliament and the council - the fact that these scarce raw materials, which we now import from third countries, must be produced on the internal market, and we must also consider that we have a regulation on the conditions for harmonizing quality standards, because we cannot fail to think about the protection of the consumer, the final consumer, the citizen. we know that there is a backlog here, we also had a resolution - i was the rapporteur on this year's resolution of 10 march 2021 - where i think we can integrate it, commissioner, into the programmes you mentioned. i very much believe that we need innovative raw materials and materials in this area, but let us not forget that these innovative materials must also be subject to quality standards. obviously, the national authorities have their responsibility here to control materials and i would remind you that since march this year the customs regulation has been in force and i would like to see a check on materials entering the value chain from third countries, because we have problems of non-harmonisation and i think that for smes in the european union it is indeed a problem if we do not monitor the internal market. i hope that the implementation of the european union's industrialization programme together with that plan for scarce raw materials will succeed in creating this value chain and quality control of construction materials.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the shortage of raw materials is a global emergency and a direct consequence of the pandemic from which we are gradually emerging. we went from a contraction in trade and a price collapse in 2020 to a skyrocketing demand for raw materials and semi-finished goods. the recovery has seen a new impetus for manufacturing and processing companies, but this has coincided with higher overall freight transport costs and the accumulation of delays, also following the suez canal accident. this is putting many european companies in serious difficulty. in addition, some third countries, which are traditional suppliers, have decided to introduce export duties to reduce domestic inflation. it may be a temporary phase, but it is certain that the european union must equip itself to deal with this crisis in the short term and, more generally, put in place a strategy of actions necessary to strengthen its strategic autonomy. the real emergency now is to get back on track and this scenario is likely to slow growth in the coming months and, although i am a strong supporter of trade defence instruments and fair competition, at this exceptional stage i believe that the commission should urgently undertake a thorough analysis of the impact that certain measures in force may have where european production is unable to meet demand. in the long term, however, we must be able to overcome the shortage of raw materials by combining a circular economy, more research and innovation for substitutability, and a strengthened industrial policy. in addition, we should continue to intensify our relations with third countries through trade agreements, diversifying value chains and avoiding the disruptions to flows that we experienced during covid.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the corona crisis has not displaced the climate crisis, and a climate-neutral europe by 2050 at the latest and the green deal in focus is now at the heart of our european policy. this is of course a matter of investment, industrial strategy and also of the way we handle raw materials. the construction sector is one of the most resource-intensive sectors. the first thing we need, of course, is a resource-efficient and low-carbon construction, especially in public spaces, infrastructure and roads. in addition, construction and demolition waste represents the largest waste stream in the eu, with around one third of all waste, and we know that building materials are ideal for recycling as valuable raw material deposits with great untapped potential for a circular economy. we must take advantage of this opportunity to create new products and new materials. the recycling rate of construction and demolition waste varies across the eu. in some countries it is 10%, in others it is over 90%, and of course we have to change and adapt. we need to find cost-effective solutions for recycling and create a circular economy and material cycles in the construction sector. and another thing: now that there is a shortage and the price of building materials is rising, to threaten to restrict eu exports and to oppose the free movement of goods in the eu is populist. but that's not a solution. because we need conservation and efficiency, recycling and circular economy, sustainable, diversified supply chains and innovation for zero-emission building materials. this is precisely what we should be doing together in europe, not leaving it to other parts of the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commodity prices are rising rapidly throughout europe and companies are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain supplies. steel prices rose by 117-150% and those of polyethylene by 113-128%. if a company needs a supply of styrofoam, it has to wait 12 weeks, while microchips and components are virtually unavailable, and this is not just a problem for companies, it's a problem for all of us, because these resources are critical to our recovery plans, which are funded by the recovery fund. that is why i would like to remind you once again, as i have done in all the reports i have been rapporteur for, that the only possible answer is a genuine and strong european industrial policy closely interlinked with our trade strategy. and we need more flexibility on safeguard clauses, so that we can activate and deactivate tariffs quickly according to market and business needs, thus allowing resources to come in when they are needed, while blocking unfair competition when there is overcapacity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the price of wood for construction was 83.3% higher than the price of wood for construction, 44.3% higher than the price of concrete steel and almost 40% higher than the price of timber for construction, to name just a few examples. the momentum is rapid. those who build now must expect high prices and a limited supply of materials. many craft enterprises are unable to fulfil their orders despite a good order situation. construction projects are delayed, factories have to report short-time workers. we must act now. i would also like to thank commissioner breton for his detailed reply to our letter a few weeks ago. i read a few days ago that silicon is in short supply. silicon is a critical component in making solar cells and in our ultimate achievement of the green deal together. the scarcity of raw materials and high prices are not only a german, but a european, indeed a global problem. a number of raw materials are essential for us in europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the green deal and the digital transformation to meet the objectives of the eu renewal agenda. it is essential to remain the world's leading industrial continent. we cannot afford to be totally dependent on third countries or even on one country for many raw materials. my question to the commission is therefore: how will you address the risk of supply-demand imbalances that we are currently experiencing for many raw materials and building materials in the forthcoming eu industrial strategy initiative packages? how can we guarantee our craftsmen and builders future planning security and price stability?
on behalf of the s&d group, president, commissioner, the hard truth is that if we do nothing, dr djalali will die, either from incessant torture, hunger, deprivation or execution by the iranian regime. and that is unacceptable! mr djalali is a citizen of the european union. he is connected with belgian, swedish and italian society, he is a professor at the free university of brussels, and his safety is our responsibility. and we have to make that very clear to the iranian regime. not just with a phone call here or there. if mr djalali is not transferred to his family in europe, there must be repercussions. if we do not, we are basically saying that it is okay to condemn european citizens to death. the european parliament therefore expects the commission and the council to act swiftly. and as my dear colleague hilde said: free djalali! i'm going to kill you!
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rarely have our emergency resolutions been so well named: in the case of ahmadreza djalali, there is real urgency. the reports we receive from the united nations and amnesty international are disturbing. dr. djalali is in critical condition, he's been in prison for five years. he's deprived of everything. he's been deprived of care. he's not allowed visitors. his family in sweden is desperate and we have no illusions about tehran's intentions. our sakharov 2012, nasrin sotoudeh, is still behind bars. despite our repeated appeals, the executions of political opponents are increasing, it has been said. and the election three weeks ago of the ultraconservative ebrahim raisi, with blood on his hands, raises fears of the worst. if there is a window of opportunity today to get dr djalali out of prison, the european union must seize it, and quickly, even if it does call on mediators such as egypt, qatar or turkey, why not? we owe it to his wife, vida mehrannia, whom some of us met in the european parliament three years ago. we owe it to his children, who have been without their dads for far too long. free djalali! i know!
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. the imprisonment of ahmadreza djalali is an affront to justice. we demand that he be given immediate access to the care he needs, that he be pardoned, released and allowed to return to sweden. we call on the new president of iran to take this opportunity to show goodwill, to take the first step towards better relations between sweden, the eu and iran. let djalali go. the eu representatives must also be clear that renegotiation of the nuclear deal can only take place if iran shows such goodwill. it's time to send a clear signal about what it takes to get anywhere in that process. trust is lost. as long as european citizens are illegally detained in iran, our relations cannot improve. as long as iran continues to impose the death penalty and imprison political activists, we will never be able to normalize our relations with iran. he was also the commander of the taliban's military wing in the northern city of amman.
in fact, the number of pioneers in the country is higher per capita than in any other country in the world. is fíric agus is fírinne an-dáiríre ar fad is that. currently, there is a doctor djalali, a surgeon and a doctor, and a prisoner waiting to be executed. i urge the authorities in haryana to stop the pilgrims from leaving, and dr. djalali to let them go, and to take the good steps that are being taken to stop them. last christmas, we asked the parliament, the authorities in ukraine to release duais sakharov's leader, nasrin sotoudeh, from prison. ar mhí-ámharaí an tsaoil, níor tháinig feabhas ar an scéal go dtí seo ach oiread. (the oil is not used to make the oil.) i know that i'm not going to be able to find a solution to this because i'm afraid that the doctor will be able to tell you that nasrin is going to let you go. call djalali to the phone. call him soon.
madam president, i participated in the gathering of the iranian opposition in paris that was endangered by bombing and yes, for many years i appealed in vain to the islamic republic of iran to free all prisoners of conscience, and in particular to stop the death penalty. dr ahmadreza djalali is most probably, along with nasrin sotoudeh, the sakharov prize laureate, the most prominent of prisoners – in very bad shape, tortured and accused on the basis of false accusations. yes, free dr ahmadreza djalali, but free all people imprisoned in iran and stop the war against iranian society!
madam president, as we have said, iran is the country with the highest executions per capita, and it is not the election of mr raissi that will give us any guarantees of easing the situation. it is therefore important to send strong messages from the european union. already in 2019, we had voted a resolution calling for the release of prisoners of conscience. in december 2020, in another resolution calling for the release of nasrin sotoudeh, we already called for the execution of mr djalali to be stopped and for his release. today, mr djalali and nasrin sotoudeh are still in prison, as are thousands of other political opponents in iran. i'll read a few words nasrin sotoudeh wrote from prison. she says: i ask the government to end iran's animosity towards the world, to look at the world through the eyes of peace and to trust in life and human beings. i ask human rights activists to help us in our peace efforts in iran. this is what we must do as europeans, as human rights activists. it is to this urgent call that we will respond, that we must respond, firmly to the iranian government, with all the tools at our disposal. free djalali and free all other political opponents today in iran!
madam president! less than three weeks ago, a new president was elected in a country that, let me remind you, is called the islamic republic of iran. ebrahim raisi was partly responsible for what happened 33 years ago the massacre of 3,000 political prisoners. and today he's the head of state. i think that's something that needs to be talked about, because it shows the bigger picture. i'm glad we're united here from right to left in the right cause. it's natural and obvious that we should demand the release of your doctor, and it's important, but we also have to remember that this is not about one person. this is about women's rights, this is about sentencing people in a country that has one of the highest, if not the highest, death penalty rates in the world. it's good we're all on the same page on this.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, eu policy towards iran is based on a comprehensive approach, critical in all areas of concern and cooperative when there is mutual interest. the european union has a long—standing and clear position on iran’s distressing practice of arbitrarily detaining eu—iranian dual nationals. no individual should be used as a pawn. the eu is following the case of swedish—iranian national dr ahmadreza djalali very closely since his detention in iran in april of 2016, where he subsequently received a death sentence. iran executes more than 200 individuals every year, including juvenile offenders, dissidents and protestors. our position is well known. the eu strongly opposes the death penalty at all times and in all circumstances and aims at its universal abolition. as part of its commitment to address all issues of concern with iran, the eu continues to urge the iranian authorities to pursue a consistent policy towards the abolition of capital punishment, which represents an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity. moreover, it is imperative for the iranian authorities to uphold the due process rights of accused individuals and to stop the practice of televised confessions. as part of the bilateral engagement with iran, the eu also calls on the iranian authorities to ensure that no individual is detained arbitrarily and that those who are under any form of detention or imprisonment are not subject to any form of mistreatment. the hr / vp and the external action service continue to use every opportunity to advocate for dr ahmadreza djalali’s release in the dialogue at all levels with the iranian authorities. we also maintain close coordination with the swedish government and other eu member states as part of a coordinated eu action. we welcomed the decision of the iranian authorities to move dr djalali out of solitary confinement in april this year, after more than 20 weeks. however, as the death sentence still stands, we have strengthened the coordination with the swedish authorities and the eu member states with embassies on the ground in iran. dr djalali’s permanent release remains a driver of eu action and we will continue to work towards achieving his release by taking all available eu tools, including sanctions, into account. in this spirit, and in full consistency with the eu’s comprehensive policy towards iran, we will continue to call for the release of all eu—iranian dual nationals arbitrarily detained in iran so they can be reunited with their families.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on hong kong, notably the case of apple daily (2021/2786(rsp))*. _______________* see minutes.
author. – madam president, across the world communist totalitarianism is responsible for some of the worst crimes in human history. these crimes are real and they are still occurring today. let us not forget that many european states still continue to suffer the consequences of communist totalitarianism – murder, terror and oppression, communities destroyed, families torn apart, no basic freedoms. these are but some of the deepest traumas left upon us. my great uncle, páter mikuláš lexmann, died in a communist forced labour camp for priests. before, he was saving the lives of jews during world war two. my other family members were forced to work in mines as forced labour, and i grew up in a society unable to exercise the very same liberties which we today take for granted. as countless millions across europe, and indeed the world, longed for freedom, so do the people of hong kong today. as president ronald reagan said: ‘in the communist world men’s instinctive desire for freedom and self-determination suffers again and again.’ the people of hong kong prize their freedoms and liberties and i admire their boldness and determination. they cherished the high degree of autonomy which, just 24 years ago, the chinese communist party had pledged to uphold. the ccp has reneged on the promises to the people of hong kong and it has reneged on its international obligations. across mainland china, and now in hong kong, it has imposed a cruel regime which is growing more oppressive every day. the uk conservative party human rights commission, in their latest report on the human rights situation in china, noted that the darkness deepens. the ccp is engaging in the worst human rights abuses since the tiananmen square massacre. the free world cannot stand by and so, on the centenary of the chinese communist party, in words and in deeds, let us send a strong message that we stand with the people of hong kong. we stand with all victims of ccp terror and oppression and with freedom-loving people everywhere. we cannot remain silent or pretend that what is happening in hong kong or across mainland china does not concern us. today, in the interconnected world, we have a moral obligation to do our utmost for the people across the world and at least make them free to determine their own destiny.
a writer. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: some people will say, yes, china, china is back on the agenda. why would you do that? i would also say that i would much prefer it if we did not have to discuss the human rights situation, civil rights and freedoms in china so often, if i did not have to discuss them so often in this place in the context of emergencies. there are far more pleasant things to talk about. however, the forced closure of apple daily will go down in history books as another dark milestone in the ongoing erosion of hong kong's democracy. freedom of the media is a cornerstone of a way of life, of our society, of democracy. without freedom of the press, we have no freedom for the citizens. without freedom of the press, we have no information that we can rely on to actually have the information that we need to make good, good decisions. yes, i welcome today's bipartisan resolution, and i very much hope and expect that we will get a very large majority. the member states of the european union must immediately impose sanctions on those responsible for the administration of hong kong and mainland china and support the democratic movement in hong kong. the protection of journalists and democrats must be a high priority. we therefore call on the member states to issue emergency visas to ensure their protection. yes, we also call for the diplomatic visits to the 2022 beijing winter olympics to be cancelled unless the human rights situation improves significantly. unfortunately, we have to keep demanding it over and over again.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to begin by expressly thanking the rapporteurs: thank you very much, miriam, anna, reinhard and especially you, reinhard, for this excellent cooperation. and this excellent cooperation in the report is the first message we are sending to china today. parliament is working together and determined to fight the national security law in china which aims to restrict publicity and freedom. the forced closure of apple daily has forced us to come together to write this report today, not because we wanted to, but because the communist party is asking us to. the resolution contains targeted sanctions against the communist party, which is very important, namely the lifeboat policy for hong kongers who are afraid in hong kong, but also the clear call to stop extraditing people from the european union to china. and what was very important to me was the political and diplomatic boycott of the olympic games. we must not make ourselves the symbol of the communists here and, in my view, we must not go to china either. and i wish our european union olympians every success at the games. we hope that we will be united and determined in this house today and that we will send a strong signal to china. we can now follow our words with action. it is extremely important that we show the communist party that there are limits, and that we have reached them here. we will not stop talking about these issues in this house as long as the people of hong kong have to fight for their freedom.
author. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, diplomatic engagement with saudi arabia is quite a tightrope walk. they have made progress on women’s rights and announced substantial legal reforms. that’s good news. but we also know that blatant human rights violations are still a reality. it’s a reality for most in prisons that their situation is very, very bleak and we describe it all in our resolution. but again, saudi arabia is a key regional player. we need to engage with saudi arabia, be it to improve security in the middle east or to fight the climate crisis. saudi arabia made it quite clear they want to engage with us and we need and should engage with saudi arabia. but all of our actions need to be guided by three questions. how can we strengthen and support all those who want to change saudi arabia towards more human rights, more rule of law and eventually democracy? how can we contain and ostracise those responsible for human rights violations? and how can we make sure that european companies do not enable, or even worse, profit from the suffering of human rights defenders in saudi arabia? this is how we can have an impact as parliamentarians, as diplomats, as team europe, but often enough we are not using it. for many years, european companies have exported surveillance technology to saudi arabia that is used to track dissidents. some member states are still exporting arms to saudi arabia, despite the violations of humanitarian law that are committed with these weapons in yemen. there are still no sanctions on those responsible for the murder of jamal khashoggi and political delegations shake hands and sign business deals without a word of support for those in prison. it is important to engage with saudi arabia and it is important to also name perpetrators, denounce oppressive structures and show solidarity with victims. we can do both. we should do both. and charles michel, i wish you a safe and successful trip to saudi arabia.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already done so. we all know that saudi arabia is not a free and tolerant country. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that raif badawi, the 2015 sakharov prize laureate, is still in custody. the execution of minors in saudi arabia is particularly abhorrent. mustafa al-darwish, 17, paid with his life for his participation in protests just over three weeks ago, on june 15, after being tortured into a confession, without a defence, without a fair trial. today, nine children in saudi arabia are still on death row awaiting execution. one of them is abdullah al-huwaiti. he was 14 when he was arrested. he was tortured to extract a confession, and in a dubious trial, he was sentenced to death in october 2019. in the first half of the year, 31 executions were carried out in saudi arabia, including eight on juvenile offenders. we condemn this practice, we expect fair trials. the death penalty, especially for minors, should be abolished. there is no justification for such an inhumane practice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all seem to agree that animal testing must be abolished. i just wonder how it took so long, and why it caused so many problems. why are there millions of animals who suffer needlessly? i kind of miss us thinking about why this happened in the first place. of course, we humans are responsible for our fellow creatures, and we cannot simply pretend that this is something outside of us. we must really look at this and rethink our basic attitude. wise king solomon once said: "the righteous one is caring for his domestic animal". do we really care about these animals? or do we not care? we need to get back to that sense of responsibility and awareness for these fellow creatures, and then we need solutions to change that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the airline industry is in a permanent crisis. corona has caused two-thirds of all flights to be canceled. but the problems of the airline industry run deeper. the industry has been unhealthy for years. airlines are dumping prices in an attempt to outdo each other at the expense of workers and the climate. the aviation industry will also have to change massively because of the climate crisis. it is shameful that lufthansa boss spohr flatly rejects necessary climate measures and at the same time expects the state to rescue lufthansa in every crisis. while many airlines have been bailed out without significant strings attached, workers are suffering from anxiety about the future. we greens are clear: the crisis in the airline industry must not be borne by the workers. during corona, over 7,000 flights were canceled. many airlines have broken the law and have done everything possible to ensure that passengers do not receive their tickets or that they receive them late. the european court of auditors has made a very impressive report on this: no clear contact person, long waiting lines and misleading forms. instead of taking the side of customers, 15 member states have even created special rules for airlines. we greens are criticizing this. the directive on the strengthening of air passenger rights has been blocked for years from the capitals, including by the german federal government. it is time to end the blockade and to finally enforce consumer rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so, just to get you started, of course covid-19 has left its mark, and of course the aviation industry has been hit hard with a 90 percent decline. and of course there is mass unemployment in this sector, and there will be more and more of it, not just in aviation, in airlines, but also in manufacturing plants, in suppliers and in airports. do you not think, commissioner, that we have now reached the point where we must finally act to create a modern, innovative european mobility organisation, where we must put a mobility concept on the table, where we must take the airplanes out of the sky and say: there is no need for intra-european flights because we are going to strengthen the rail network and connect the metropolises of europe? we have to put the money into that, because we have -- this is nothing new -- this climate crisis that we have to deal with. we can only be thankful that flights have dropped by 90 percent. at least the climate will thank us. so, now is the time to go in a new direction and not just think. it is not the time to apply the principle of the watering can to save jobs, but it is the time to create new, innovative jobs in alternative ways. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. it is not an alternative to fly from berlin to madrid or milan, but the alternative is to get on a transrapid or an express train and be there in two or three hours. that's the alternative. we need modern, new, innovative mobility. but the worst thing about this crisis is that companies are being denied the opportunities for innovation and research because of the lack of funds - that is, the opportunities for innovation and research for alternative forms of propulsion, for alternative fuels, for what is so urgently needed in this day and age. we must also make sure that we are moving forward, that the engines are not only modernised but also made environmentally friendly, that we can retrofit aircraft and take aircraft over 18 years old off the market. for this we need a pan-european concept of mobility that we can all stand behind. and we should spend money on that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm not a green frequent flyer. i've flown once in the last ten years. i'd rather take the train and stay on the ground. just like the backbone of the german airline industry - the ground staff, the people who take care of the safety, the luggage, the catering. they were not doing well before the crisis. as a rule, migrants in this sector work for temporary agency workers in the low-wage sector. and how did they fare in the crisis? 191 000 employees have lost their jobs or are working part-time. but there was generous support. did she get to the weakest? of the aid, the airlines received 32 billion and the airports 2.85 billion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. those who have much already have received something. but corona can't last forever, you know. it's got to be going up again soon. but then comes the next problem, the consequences of the green deal for the airline industry, and there, thank god, lufthansa has spoken very clearly. a lufthansa spokesman said: 'only strong and competitive companies are in a position to invest in new technologies.' in germany, airlines are subject to a triple taxation of air traffic, ets and corsia, while airlines from turkey, the gulf states and asia can operate under completely different environmental and social statutes. but the greens don't care. if lufthansa were to cease to exist, they would be sitting in a rainbow t-shirt on a qatar airways plane, flying into a colourful, diverse future. the only thing that will not be on board are the 600 000 employees of the german aviation industry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very concerned about the plans to introduce a covid-19 certificate to regulate access to the ep. mr president, you always stress the importance of parliament's ability to function. and now you want to restrict our employees' access to the workplace? that can't be your goal! i therefore ask you firstly to clarify what is really planned and secondly to do everything possible to ensure that unvaccinated staff can continue to work for us in the future. because both the vaccination and a pcr test are medical interventions. it must remain the free choice of each individual whether to take this risk or not. a vaccine skeptic should not be put at a disadvantage! otherwise we will divide society. i urge you, mr president, to ensure that these freedoms are also respected in your own house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, today, behind closed doors, the conference of presidents is supposed to decide on access to parliament, and in future, this should only be possible with a covid-19 passport or with a corresponding 3g rule. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. because vaccinated people are still more dangerous to unvaccinated people than the other way around, this discrimination makes no medical sense.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. (introduction to speech with microphone off) ... our european health system is vulnerable and weak. now it's time we learn the right lessons from this. we can't have the best health care if the health systems in our neighbouring countries are collapsing. that's why we need to work together more closely. pandemics cannot be fought by isolation. the coronavirus pandemic must and can become a blueprint for eu health policy. by working together and strengthening the eu, we will have better health care and lower prices for medicines. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. and to put it very clearly: parallel negotiations, as we have seen during corona by individual member states, are detrimental to the european union. the danger that our bargaining position will deteriorate and we will be played off against each other is increasing. that is why we want to prevent parallel negotiations by individual states. but secret contracts like the coronavirus vaccines must also be a thing of the past. citizens have a right to know what is happening with their tax money. we therefore call for full transparency in the contracts that the eu and the member states conclude with the pharmaceutical companies. we must not leave anyone behind, and it was particularly important for us in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection to mention that up to 37 million europeans suffer from rare diseases or from rare diseases. for many of these diseases, there are no medicines or very expensive ones. if the pharmaceutical companies are not interested in the economy, many people will not be helped. and that's why it's important to us that we also make it more attractive through joint procurement and make medicines more affordable for people who suffer from rare diseases. we must do everything we can to help those affected. it was also important for us in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection to speak out once again very clearly against closed borders. because closed borders make crises bigger, not smaller. covid-19 has shown us that, and we've felt the economic impact of it, especially early on. and that is why it is particularly important for us to point out that the eu's borders - including and especially for the movement of goods - remain open even in a pandemic. let us now work together to ensure that the good position we negotiated in parliament at inter-committee level is retained in the trilogue and that we succeed in convincing the member states of our content.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we're talking about what's called platform work. these include people who work for the apps deliferando or myhammer, but also people who offer business translation and complex it solutions. most of them offer it as a side job. and it is these people that the european commission has now identified as the new labour slaves of the 21st century. and it is these people who must be protected. of course the commission must demand new rules. the only stupid thing is that in germany, for example, the bertelsmann foundation sees no problems at all in this area. the bertelsmann foundation says that these people are younger, better educated and earn more than others. and the platform workers' union leaders don't see any problems at all. i see a problem. i see a problem in this report because i am missing a very important factor in this report. there is not a word about lgbtiq and gender in this report! the most important app, ladies and gentlemen, is my-hammer.de! i can hardly stand it! and there is no shouting, no demonstration, no teenagers jumping around. my-hammer.de, that's what the platform work is about, and yet not a word about lgbtiq and not a word about gender justice in your report. this is a scandal. i ask you: let's work together under the rainbow to ensure lgbtiq and gender justice in the platform work!
the commission has already done so. i think this debate shows very clearly that we cannot allow ourselves to have new forms of work that are slave-like, but that come in the form of a dress. but it's nothing more than a throwback to pre-modern times, pre-industrial in principle. and we have labor rights and participation, we have won the generations before us, and they are protected by law. but what do we find? in my constituency in berlin - i will give an example - drivers from the gorillas delivery service are fighting to establish a works council. the reality is that these platforms are often centers of competence, how to co-determinate, how to work rights, how to work safety, and they're being dismantled and not being applied. you have hired people for a limited period of time, and if someone wants to set up a works council, then the contract expires, they simply are not hired. this report, mr schmit, is a great opportunity for the commission to take action here, to present a directive. i wanted to tell my colleague reil - he is no longer here - that such a study must also be read to the end. because at bertelsmann you find good suggestions on what you can change.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 september 2021.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr manuel pizarro on 'fishermen for the future: attracting a new generation of fishermen and creating jobs in coastal communities' (a9-0230/2021).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when will the public be told that the ban on internal combustion engines from 2035 will spell the end of individual mobility? it is not intended - nor could it be - to replace all passenger cars with e-mobiles. the additional electricity in germany alone would require 12 nuclear power stations, which will never be built - apart from the resource consumption. when do you tell the citizen that a supply-oriented electricity market and the so-called smart meters mean that electricity will be turned off if it is not available? which, without storage, with the so-called renewables, will not be uncommon. when will we tell the public that the massive price on co2 will make everything, everything, more expensive because it is produced, processed and transported? energy poverty, as you call it, will be the rule, not the exception. when will you tell the people, mr timmermans, that the future you are planning will be one of renunciation, prohibition, scarcity, lack of freedom and lack of possessions? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. less than two years ago, we all joined together in this room to declare a climate emergency. the fact that the climate emergency is a reality has been shown this summer. we mourn the hundreds of people who have died in the eu, from floods and forest fires, from extreme heat. the report of the world climate council has shown the dramatic situation we are in. the 1.5 degree limit can be exceeded as early as 2030. we are all in favour of 1.5°c, and you are in favour of that too, mr timmermans. but i ask you: how is it that you propose that by 2030, only 40 percent of energy is renewable? why do you want to allow tax breaks for aviation kerosene until 2032? and why do you want to invest taxpayer dollars in fossil natural gas now? the latest report from the world climate council has shown that the proposals are not enough to deliver on the promise of the paris agreement - the promise that our children can enjoy the same freedom as we do. that is why i am appealing to you: let us be more courageous! let 's get the coal out ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. with the "fit for 55" package, we can get fit for paris. we can also bring this to life by at least 55% by 2030, because we need to take much bigger and faster steps by 2030. better protection and restoration of our soils and forests will be crucial. the climate performance of moors, forests and meadows is not a panacea. the forestry and land use sector must not become a kind of egg-laying, egg-swallowing cow to make up for missed greenhouse gas reductions in other sectors. we need both: rapid decarbonization of all sectors and more natural sinks of co2. our responsibility does not end at our borders, we must reduce our footprint globally. we need an eu law against imported deforestation as soon as possible. we are ready to take up our responsibilities and to move forward.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank all honourable members for their contribution to this debate. i want to particularly thank those who have said they want to engage with the commission and the council to swiftly start negotiating on the fit for 55 package, to find common solutions on the basis of a legal obligation to reach a reduction of at least 55% of emissions by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. i also want to raise a more profound issue today. if you look at the challenges humanity faces: the covid crisis, which is not over yet by a long stretch; the climate crisis; the risk of ecocide, which is real; and we’re in the middle of an industrial revolution and quickly shifting geopolitical relations. we see it all around us. now we have a couple of traps. we as politicians who have the responsibility today because we were elected to do this, or appointed to do this, we have a couple of traps we need to avoid. the first trap to avoid is to underestimate the size of the challenge. as i’ve said before, before you, i repeat it, it’s going to be bloody hard and nobody should have any illusions that this is going to be easy. the second trap to avoid is to talk all the time about the cost of the transition and avoiding to talk about the cost of non-transition. the costs of non-transition not just in economic terms – just look at what the floods are doing, just look at what the wildfires are doing, etc. – but especially the cost in human terms. our children will be waging wars over water and food if we do not act now. and the migration crisis we’ve seen so far will be child’s play if you compare it to the migration flows that will result from the climate crisis getting completely out of hand. do we. do those of you who criticise the fit for 55, who criticise climate policy, do they really look at that aspect of non-action? i hope so. i hope so. secondly, another trap we need to avoid is falling back into what happens at any time in our history when there are paradigm shifts, when there are fundamental changes, falling into the trap of what i would like to call obscurantism. it’s all around us – denying science, denying facts, believing in the most idiotic conspiracy theories. we don’t have the luxury as politicians to let that pass. we need to react to this. we need to stand up for science. we need to stand up for facts. and we need to be honest about the consequences of science and of facts even if that poses all of us very complicated issues and challenges. the next trap i want to mention is linked to the previous one. because there is such a lack of optimism in our society, even a dominating fear of regress, a fear of loss, democratic politics risk being caught in what i would like to call short-termism, that the only objective we have is to get re-elected in three or four years from now, and that we avoid any proposition to our citizens that might make that re-election more difficult. we cannot afford to do that. as in this generation, we have to take the responsibility for next generations. we have to take the responsibility for measures that might be painful in the first couple of years but will result in a more just society, with humanity being able to live within the boundaries the planet sets us. this is not just a domestic agenda, it is an international agenda. we have to convince the international community to follow the european union’s lead in working towards a mutual society by the middle of this century, a society where the world lives well within planetary boundaries. the bad news is it’s bloody hard. the good news is it’s absolutely possible. it’s absolutely possible to get us there. and i want to tell you that i have more confidence in the understanding of our population that this will be necessary and that there will be a cost involved than some of the politicians i’ve heard here today. the thing is, our population will support this even if, for individuals, this means a sacrifice. if we can manifestly show that the sacrifice leads to results and that the burden is shared in an equitable and solidarity-based way, that is going to be the big challenge because, and let me end on that, the final trap, the most immediate trap, and i heard it here today, we need to avoid at all costs, is that we oppose social equity and solidarity to tackling the climate crisis, that we pretend as though tackling the climate crisis would lead to social inequality, whereas it is evident on the basis of science that not tackling the climate crisis will lead to the most horrible social inequality, because rich people can always find a way out and a place to live. poor people, middle classes, cannot, and will suffer if we don’t act now.
the chairman of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you for a very open and frank discussion which has shed light on virtually all aspects of the debate which will accompany the fit for 55 package in the coming months and perhaps even years. i can assure you once again that the presidency will direct all its efforts towards consensus, that it will work actively on this dossier, that it has already convened 60 meetings in the various formations of the council working groups and that it looks forward to drawing up and coordinating proposals with the european parliament when, if, the time comes for the trilogues. thank you for your attention and for the discussion today.
the debate is closed. i am grateful to the commission and the council for their presence in our debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law. spanish socialists support the need for a green transition, but it is essential that it be fair, leaving no one behind. the process of decarbonising europe must take account of the social impact it may have on the most vulnerable people, which is why we call for the establishment of adequate compensation mechanisms. the socialist group also believes that the border adjustment mechanism must play a key role in the green transition, with rapid implementation. on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
in writing. in the context of the implementation of the green deal, the commission presented on 14 july 2021 the package objective 55, with thirteen legislative measures whose main objective is to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. the programme aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 compared with 1990 levels, with the review of the eu's climate and energy framework that it proposes. some of the legislative proposals presented are based on the adaptation and restructuring of existing tools such as the eu emissions trading system (ets), the revision of legislation on the sharing of effort, renewable energy or energy efficiency. climate objectives and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are undeniably a priority. we need to find the balance between a strong and competitive economy that is also environmentally friendly. however, i insist that the transition to a sustainable economy must always be made without undermining the competitiveness of businesses in our single market.
in writing. the adoption of the eu climate regulation in july marked the end of symbolic debates and the opportunity for responsible action in the fight against climate change. the latter has become particularly urgent as in recent months, in addition to the coronavirus pandemic, european citizens have faced devastating weather anomalies and record energy prices. the world market price of natural gas increased by 400% in one year, while household balances increased by one and a half times in some member states. it was in this context that the european commission presented the '55%' package of proposals for the eu. the climate targets are noble, but it is unacceptable for brussels to make people pay for the green transition. the proposed increase in the share of renewable energy will lead to a jump in the price of heating, district heating and transport fuels. the costs of increasing the level of mandatory annual energy savings may also be borne by consumers in the future. moreover, the measures proposed by the commission do not take into account the different starting positions and national characteristics of the member states. no impact assessment has been carried out at member state level, which calls into question the credibility, adequacy and cost-effectiveness of the measures proposed by brussels. this is particularly risky in the case of a package of economic transformation of historical proportions. the commission's proposals are generally unreasonable, ignore the sovereignty of the member states in some cases and are totally contrary to the principle of fairness. this is dangerous the people of europe deserve better climate and energy policies.
in writing. the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law. spanish socialists support the need for a green transition, but it is essential that it be fair, leaving no one behind. the process of decarbonising europe must take account of the social impact it may have on the most vulnerable people, which is why we call for the establishment of adequate compensation mechanisms. the socialist group also believes that the border adjustment mechanism must play a key role in the green transition, with rapid implementation. on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
in writing. i support the package fit for 55 it is necessary to formulate even more ambitious climate targets for 2030 on the way to eu climate neutrality. i therefore welcome the commitment to reduce emissions by at least 55% by 2030. in my view, the emphasis of the measures announced must clearly be on market economy measures, because only with incentives rather than bans will we achieve the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. everyone can contribute to climate protection, but not every detail can be dictated by the european union.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have a minute and i shall use it to make some proposals. in view of the long time it takes for member states to quantify the damage caused by disasters, floods and fires, we propose that you at least increase the percentage of the advance from the european solidarity fund by at least 30%. in the light of the ipcc report, i ask the commissioner to draw up further recommendations, guidelines redirecting the resources of the rfm, the european structural funds on prevention especially for the countries most at risk. we are at a crucial stage in the launching of the operational programmes of the cohesion fund, and it is still possible to do so. because if countries like italy allocate only 2 billion for hydrogeological disruption, against a need of 26 billion, it means that more pressure must be exerted on governments to use funds effectively in combating climate change.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the summer season that has just ended has undoubtedly been difficult: the floods and fires that have struck europe have had dramatic consequences, causing casualties as well as considerable economic and landscape damage. the risk of disasters and catastrophes is unfortunately increasingly frequent for a number of reasons and this belief requires a pragmatic and realistic approach on our part, first of all by improving and consolidating the existing instruments. the scale and severity of the fires - and i am thinking particularly of my own country, italy - have made the european strategy only partially work: the fleet established under resceu has shown its limitations and difficulties, especially when several member states have been faced with the same type of disaster at the same time, as has happened with the fires in the mediterranean countries. the solidarity fund and the civil protection mechanism must be strengthened and made more effective, not only in terms of resources but above all in terms of disaster management, damage assessment and simplification of procedures, improvement of mechanisms for identifying and quantifying damage. the copernicus european forest fire information system should be strengthened in order to improve prevention and response actions. many of these events could have been avoided if there had been proper prevention action in recent years. protecting and safeguarding urban centres, architectural heritage and natural and landscape beauties from disasters and catastrophes is the real challenge of the present and the future, a challenge which we can best meet only if we are able to make courageous choices in terms of budgetary policies and if, through the existing instruments, starting with cohesion policy funds, but also with those of the prsp, we strengthen - as you rightly urged - the synergy and cooperation between all the actors involved. this is the spirit in which we as the regi committee want to make a contribution and i express a very positive opinion of the president and the work that regi has put in place.
on behalf of the left group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. you're always smarter afterwards. yes, the eu solidarity fund needs to be reinforced, a climate adaptation fund is needed. yes, eu-wide coordination of disaster relief needs to be improved across borders. and of course, we should have spent more money on preparation. but it is also true that there were serious shortcomings in the way the member states handled the crisis on the ground. in germany, for example, the early warning system has failed completely. even the sirens didn't work properly. i'm not talking about digital warning people. in germany too, savings were made in flood control, climate control and disaster prevention. yeah, you're always smarter afterwards. the commissioner is quite right, therefore, that we must do better on three levels at the same time: more emergency aid, more prevention, more climate protection. this must be the principle from now on, because no one can doubt that climate change has also reached europe in the face of the devastating natural disasters of this summer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in my home town, in my home state of rhineland-palatinate in germany, the storms raged in july in the eifel, on the mosel, and the worst affected was the ahr valley. we have 133 dead to mourn. three people are still missing. in the ahr valley, 62 bridges, 40 schools, 55 kindergartens and five hospitals were destroyed. over 3,000 businesses are affected by the disaster. the extent of this can only be judged by looking at it on the ground. i've been to the scene. the tv images were depressing, but i'll tell you this: once there, it makes a very different, deeper impression. i visited my friend there 14 days after the disaster, and although much of the damage had been repaired, it still looked like a bombing. my friend and other victims told me about the flood night and also about the death scares that people there endured. it is therefore out of respect for these people and the many dead that we must not make political use of the flood disaster. this would be shabby and would not do the job justice. rather, our job is to help people build. it is therefore important that the eu solidarity fund assistance is released swiftly as soon as the applications are received. if the pot is empty, as we have heard from various media today, the household must be rearranged. the commission must be more flexible and able to react, ladies and gentlemen, and we owe that to the people on the ground. it will take many years to build. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. germany has also benefited from the european solidarity fund in recent years - i would like to say this clearly to the critics of europe in this room. this summer europe has not only suffered from a number of fire disasters, but also from a severe flood disaster. in one of the worst-hit areas of the flood, the ahr valley, i myself worked for over three weeks as a surgical specialist and was very busy. by the way, undercover, without being a big shot, which is what i do for a living. i would like to thank all the friends who helped, the blue light group, the bundeswehr, but also the many, many volunteers who helped on the helfer shuttle. if you have lost your faith in humanity, go to the valley of the temples, and there you will find it again. and that's good, because it's going to take a long time to build there, and it's going to be very expensive. the problem with this year's disasters is that the solidarity fund is empty. europe must do better here. and here i am asking commission president von der leyen and the commission to raise funds. we do not need a little europe everywhere. we need a strong europe in the right places. when we have to fight the damage of natural catastrophes, europe has to show up and we have to be visible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. hundreds of people lost their lives in the flood disaster in july 2021, and many more are facing the rubble of their existence. in germany's ahrtal valley, shops and businesses are still closed, the economy is at a standstill, water and gas pipelines are destroyed, highways and train lines are cut, schools and day-care centers are unusable. this is climate change! and that is why it is so urgent that we put disaster prevention and adaptation to climate change at the top of the agenda, also in the eu budget. and we need to prioritize ecological aspects: more space for rivers, less sealed or compacted soils due to intensive agriculture, sponge cities with water reservoirs and green spaces. and above all, we must do one thing: finally take climate action forward. the question is no longer whether we can afford climate protection. the real question is who is to bear the immense human and financial costs of a lack of climate protection? and these are the people of ahr valley today and our children tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the devastating flood in germany, which claimed the lives of more than 180 people and caused billions of dollars of damage, is certainly an extreme weather phenomenon. these people, who are still largely waiting for the much-heralded unbureaucratic aid, need our sympathy, but above all our active and financial support. extreme weather is unfortunately as old as humanity, and even the 2012 ipcc special report has to state that in terms of flooding, it's not anthropogenic climate change that's the problem. the german weather service comes to the same conclusion, noting that there is no increase in extreme weather events. the sealing of land, the straightening of river courses, the building of natural floodplains and, in general, the increase in coastal development are man-made. the failure of the german authorities to give the citizens timely warnings is man-made. but none of this has anything to do with the weather. that you're using the dead, the flood victims, the people who lost everything, for your climate propaganda is pathetic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. "because today is such a day, don't change your policy", was the message heard on 15 july 2021, shortly after torrential floods devastated the ahr valley, parts of the eifel, limburg and wallonia. one day when thousands of people lost everything. one day, over 200 people in germany, belgium and the netherlands lost their lives. the "flood of the century" was later called that day. just as there are more and more "threats of the century" and "storms of the century". however, 'centuries' are no longer enough to measure these extreme weather events. they're the new normal. with this new normal, it's becoming increasingly painfully clear that the climate crisis is not an abstract idea. "such a day" is now commonplace, brutal for many people. working to achieve the paris agreement on climate change is not just about drastically reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. it also means organising climate adaptation measures to protect all people from the consequences of the crisis. we must not waste any more time, we must not rest on our laurels - there is far too much to do. it is not enough, and we must act now. many colleagues have said that today. because tomorrow could be another "day like that", and because there could be many, many more days like that, you have to change policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. hundreds of deaths from the july floods, hundreds of thousands of acres of forest lost to fires this summer, billions in damage to infrastructure, that's the reality of a 1.1°c world. with the current plans of the states to protect the climate, we are heading for well over 3°c. the probability of meeting the 1.5°c limit is one percent. the ipcc report leaves no doubt: these extreme weather events will increase. this means that we need not only to accelerate climate action, but we also need to take action to adapt to climate change. mrs ferreira, we greens will do everything we can to support you. the study by the directorate-general for civil protection and humanitarian aid shows that every euro we invest in the restoration of rivers and streams or in the re-watering of bogs avoids damage of 18 euros. nature is our ally, and its destruction threatens our very foundation. and to those of you who are calling for moderation on climate change, physics is not negotiation, it's hard science.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has said before that active and practical solidarity is the hallmark of europe. this sentence becomes an empty promise when you hear that the financial means for mutual aid have already been used up. the demands that would be made were clear from the articles: the entire eu budget would be blown up again because of climate change. ladies and gentlemen, this demand is wrong. first, many of the damage that has been done is not just the result of anonymous climate change, but the very concrete personal ignorance of individual decision-makers. secondly, we should further strengthen the existing solidarity fund within the existing budget, for example by redirecting funds from environmentally harmful programmes such as the promotion of e-mobility to where they actually have an active and practical use. if we fail to do so, if we do not have sufficient resources to help the citizens on the ground, then the eu risks full exposure. then it's not just too little too late, but too little and never.
rapporteur. – mr president, our european institutions are in a delicate situation. on the one hand, the economic consequences of the covid crisis necessitate prudence in spending and planning. on the other, the crisis itself and our responses to it force us to do things differently, to invest and to recover. minister, let me tell you that i have sympathy for your prudent approach and i myself and the shadows have applied that prudence in developing our position on the budget. we have spoken extensively to all institutions, we have looked at each budgetary line and we have tried to understand clearly where the needs lie. we made clear that this is not a time for unreasonable budgetary increases. but it seems to me that the council and parliament still fundamentally diverge in their approach to the budget. whereas the council is applying horizontal cuts, the parliament’s reading is based on a detailed analysis of the needs of each european institution, which supervise, execute and implement eu law and policy. it is one of those needs that i want to especially highlight in this context. as you know, the recovery fund leads to an unprecedented flow of eu money to our economies. i have negotiated this law and i am immensely proud of what we have achieved. however, the council completely ignores that additional money also requires additional supervision. in this context, it seems bizarre to me that the council cuts posts and budget for the court of auditors and, by the way, also for the european anti-fraud office (olaf). we should be increasing these budgets because european citizens demand that funds are not being wasted or defrauded. i also cannot understand why you would like to cut many other institutions like the court of justice or the european external action service (eeas). all of those posts are, in our view, fully justified and based on the reality on the ground. finally, i want to remind you of the incredibly important need to reform and update our european institutions at all times to meet the challenges of our time. we owe it to citizens to constantly rejuvenate and reform from within. that’s why i’m incredibly proud that, with covid, our parliament has risen to this task and has started a process of internal rejuvenation and reform, which is actually ongoing as we speak. in open process, we have looked at ways in which to be better at scrutiny, we want to improve the committee culture and the hearings in the way they work and we want to strengthen the plenary debates to be more engaging and representative of our issues. i invite all institutions to undergo a similar process of rejuvenation and internal reform. in the same spirit, i invite you, minister, to push the council to actually actively engage in the conference on the future of europe, where these debates are taking place on a grander scale. it’s our shared responsibility to ensure that our institutions are ready for the 21st century and that we can actually work for the well-being and interests of our citizens. i can only hope that the council and commission join us in the spirit of responsibility, reform and rejuvenation.
madam president, we made mistakes in afghanistan in the last 20 years, but what we are doing right now is much worse. two weeks ago, it was our ministers of home affairs who met and they didn’t pledge a single, a single resettlement place because they were afraid of bad opinion polls back home. bad opinion polls, while the women are marching in the streets of afghanistan, although they know they will be beaten up by taliban. while our local partners are stuck in refugee camps in pakistan, although we promised them safe passage. what we are doing right now is betraying the foundations on which our foreign policy is based: the trust of our local partners and our commitment to human rights. but there is a chance to get things right. commissioner johansson announced another resettlement conference and we need pledges in the tens of thousands. so every one of you who spoke about the protection of human rights and of activists today: as you walk out this room, pick up your phones, call your colleagues in the governments and make sure there will be substantial pledges. this one, it’s not about political power games and party politics. this one, it’s about responsibility.
i have to say, madam president, mr borrell, please. you're avoiding the real lesson of afghanistan. why would you do that? in fact, afghanistan shows very clearly that war is not the solution and that the western war policy has failed! democracies are not exported militarily, because war is the brutal continuation of a failed policy. but recently you personally called for the eu to be equipped and have a flexible army, as a lesson from afghanistan. but why? isn't that exactly the wrong thing to pursue? the hindu kush was not about defending our freedom, nor the freedom of the afghan woman. it was a war fought for geopolitical interests, money poured into the mouths of a corrupt government and into the mouths of western corporations. the same disaster is now threatening mali, where france, not the united states, is the driving force. after accepting the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians, you are now even negotiating with the taliban about possible development cooperation. why would you do that? to avoid giving the field to geopolitical interests from china and russia? their geopolitics are just as - i'll say this bluntly - repulsive as those of russia and china. and now the home ministers are standing up and saying, 2015 cannot happen again. i say, 2001 when you went to war in afghanistan, must not happen again. eu countries are not ready to take in people. they are going to afghanistan and renegotiating with the erdoğan regime that it is keeping refugees out of the eu. i am not going to go into detail. are you serious about human rights? afghanistan is not looking like that at all!
madam president, the scenes of the taliban carrying around coffins covered in american and nato flags were devastating. and the fact that after 20 years, women are not allowed to work alongside men and do not dare to go into the streets without a burka, is heart breaking. the most horrible consequence of the withdrawal is the imminent danger afghans are in. but this crisis also concerns us. let us now finally draw lessons. to mr borrell i would say: we need a real european defence union with a real european army. if this is not the moment, when will it be? citizens are in favour. french president macron, who i saw last week, is in favour. commission president ursula von der leyen, as a former german defence minister, must be in favour. and with the german elections coming up, i really hope there will be support for this eu army. we can no longer wait, not another year, not another crisis. it should happen now.
madam president, the taliban takeover has certainly been a blow for the west but, after our chaotic withdrawal, what cannot be further defeated are the values we stand for, and solidarity is one of them. this means providing humanitarian assistance, keeping up efforts for evacuation, and using our levers and instruments to help protect human rights as much as we can, but this also means not turning our back on those afghan citizens most at risk of persecution by the new regime, especially women. we need safe and legal pathways for vulnerable people to find protection in europe. resettlement pledges must be part of the eu’s efforts, not just shifting the responsibility for the protection of refugees to neighbouring countries yet again. we must uphold our international legal obligations, including on the right to seek asylum, if we want to be taken seriously as a reliable player in a rules—based international order.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the record after 20 years in afghanistan is horrifying. the complete failure is yet another proof that our value imperialism has failed miserably. a failure with announcement. we have neither the right nor the obvious desire to impose our values on other countries and cultures. 99 percent of afghans want sharia, which means among other things, the death penalty for homosexuals. the women's rights movement is over. we are currently transporting these archaic views to the eu by the tens of thousands. my dear colleagues, do not be surprised by the next attack, the next gang rape, the next murder. here we politicians have a full responsibility to our citizens. all of you, including you, will live up to that! let's stop this immigration! talks with the taliban yes, but no official recognition. the precondition for this must be the unconditional return of all the rejected and, above all, of all the criminals. whatever we do, i say this from my many years of experience in this region, which you obviously have no idea about: we must finally stop exporting our value, unless we want to fail once again. (the president cut the speaker off)
dear colleague, i am going to have to cut you off. you no longer have the right to speak.
thank you, ms kanko. we will be asking for a transcript of the previous colleague’s intervention for us to see what was said and read it.
madam president, the situation in afghanistan is serious and the repercussions go far beyond a single regime change. the progress made, especially on women’s and girls’ rights, their participation in society and political life, and their access to education and health care vanished in a shockingly short time. already now we see women and girls disappearing from public life, forced to fully cover themselves when entering universities, and threatened when standing up for their rights. that’s why we need to be vocal on their behalf. respecting and protecting their rights has to be at the heart of our humanitarian aid and prerequisite to development policies within that country. this is what we owe to them. but afghanistan is not solely a european issue. our support will only have an impact when embedded in a broader global approach. an increased european budget is good, but international actors have to fulfil their pledges as well. the same applies to the support for neighbouring countries hosting the largest amount of migrants and refugees. we will step up our financial help, but also our support in asylum capacity building and the fight against criminal networks exploiting the most vulnerable. this is only one reason why we need to have a full picture of those arriving in europe. reinforced border protection, sound registration and security checks on those being evacuated from the region are of the utmost importance for our internal security. our agencies like europol and frontex stand ready to support, and security will be served best when combined with an increased information exchange between the national level european agencies and international partners. this is what we owe to our citizens and to those fleeing war and persecution: that they are not threatened anew by criminal networks and terrorists.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to state clearly here that the military withdrawal of the international coalition forces from afghanistan has been a failure. but this does not mean that we should question 20 years of western mission, in which we have tried to build a more democratic environment and to fight terrorism. and that's why, right now, we can't just leave those people, we can't leave those women alone who for 20 years we've said, you have the right to a different life, where you can work, study, leave the house alone. we have a moral duty to deal with those who today want to leave the country because they are threatened for collaborating with the international coalition or for being committed to defending civil rights, just as we must continue to work with our allies to improve the conditions of those who decide to stay in afghanistan instead. europe cannot turn its back on the other side, and in this respect the conclusions of the last council were, in my view, very disappointing. today we need concrete commitments immediately, on the activation of humanitarian corridors, humanitarian visas, support for refugees and a strategy for the reception of refugees in europe, in accordance with the geneva convention. but there is a hard lesson that we all must learn from this situation: the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world stage, but it must also be able to take part in the world stage.
madam president, we have for over a month now heard that we will judge the taliban on the grounds of their deeds, not on the grounds of their words. but i think we have seen enough, that the real face is not really new. it’s the old taliban. however, it’s very important that the channels will somehow be kept open because there’s an urgent and overwhelming need of humanitarian assistance. and i would also like to say that we need in some part to continue development cooperation with the people of afghanistan and i’m sure that the commission will find ways to do that. we cannot leave the people of afghanistan on their own. we cannot leave the women and the children; we cannot leave the people living in the rural realities of the countryside. there’s a huge drought also in the country. i very much believe that the time will also be soon when we have to judge the 20 years of the war against terrorism. we still have terrorism, also in the government of afghanistan in the form of the taliban, so it has not been a success story and we have to understand why this all went so.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the situation in afghanistan, and it is without any doubt a failure, a grave political failure and a shameful escape. a war that was fought without knowledge, without any idea of what was going on in afghanistan, without an ounce of knowledge of the situation there, and a war that ended in a shameful flight. i heard someone here earlier saying from colleagues that they could not abandon the people and the women of afghanistan. well, you left them behind. you lied to them, you fought some kind of war there, then you escaped with the planes and they fell from them as they tried to escape. and that was a shameful escape, which you should probably be ashamed of, but i doubt anyone's thinking about it. now i hear that the illegal immigrants were supposed to come to europe. well, whoever wants to take it, fine, take it, i have no problem with that. if you want to accept them instead of negotiating with saudi arabia, which is trading billions of dollars in weapons for oil, there's nothing wrong with that. but i know what my fellow citizens and compatriots want and i know their concerns. that's why we will fight and insist on zero immigration in bulgaria and to protect our state border. whoever ordered this music, please pay the bill.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the taliban takeover has the potential to create a large-scale humanitarian crisis. already, 18 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, and it's simply a matter of credibility that we don't leave these people alone. it is irresponsible to believe that the needy are being taken into europe without controls, instead of being given local help. the union must assess its own capabilities, and our action must serve the interests of local people and stabilise them. the first priority must be to help those in need within the region, in neighbouring countries. this requires ensuring the safety of humanitarian workers and taking the needs of the countries hosting afghan refugees, pakistan, iran and turkey, into account when planning eu development policy support. the eu needs to act with a sense of responsibility, with the capacity and the ability to respond, to avoid a repeat of the events of 2015. the european union must make a serious sacrifice to keep refugee aid within the region.
madam president, the speedy collapse of the afghan government and seizure of power by the taliban sent shockwaves throughout europe. it prompted intense debates on the future of rules-based international order, transatlantic relations, european strategic autonomy and relations with adversarial states. humanitarian assistance, human rights protection, especially of women and girls, assistance to ngos on the ground, must be our absolute priority. this unfortunate situation should also be an impetus to finally agree on the new pact on migration and asylum. as the european parliament, we should establish a formal mechanism in this house on the scrutiny of the eu policy on afghanistan since 2001. the task at hand would be not just to establish what went wrong, but crucially to draw lessons for present and future eu missions. following the recent events in afghanistan, it became evident that eu strategic autonomy becomes a necessity, not a choice.
madam president, i would like to thank mr borrell. after the attack, which killed over 3,000 people from 87 countries, it was right and important that we defend ourselves, that we trace and destroy the terrorist cells, in order to prevent possible further and worse attacks. in 20 years of operation, over 3,500 soldiers and over 85,000 afghans have died. history in afghanistan is now written by the victors. whether the country will again become an international threat remains to be seen. but we must now draw concrete reforms from the dilettante retreat and the failure of the government, mr borrell, in the european union. firstly, the deepening of the common security and defence policy. secondly, no longer does every country in the european union have to provide any kind of military offensive and defence. and thirdly, mr borrell, we must coordinate and clarify the relationship between nato and the european battle groups and see to it that our battle groups are operational. if we have succeeded in doing so, we must look at whether a european army is possible in the next few decades.
madam president, to anyone who feels empathy, these images from afghanistan are heartbreaking and shocking to witness. for years, european countries tried to work together towards a more resilient afghanistan and in this endeavour relied heavily on locals to support this. amongst these locals are journalists, activists, human rights defenders, women and young people. they knew they took a risk but they still did it, and they were brave enough to support with us and to work with us for a better future for their country. now they ask for our help, they ask to be saved, but we hear european leaders fostering this narrative of defence and trying to score political gains by playing into nationalistic fears. this is disgraceful. with our resolution today we ask all european leaders to be courageous and compassionate. we ask them ambitiously to step up resettlement pledges at the september resettlement forum. we are talking about tens of thousands of pledges that we would need. second, we ask for safe and legal pathways to be established. we heard about humanitarian visas and we ask for deportations to afghanistan to be halted, and lastly, to cooperate with all involved actors to ensure that no lives are lost.
madam president, every day we receive news, images and testimonies from afghanistan that outrage and revolt us. we are witnessing the trampling on of the most basic human rights, particularly of women, but i would say of all citizens. it's the opposite of what we would like to have seen, and to see, after 20 years of struggle and sacrifice in trying to stabilize the region and give the afghan people the future they're entitled to. but the responsibility is not ours, it is the taliban's and this must not be forgotten. the european union and the international community must now play a decisive role. i regret that the european council has not yet met to assess the geopolitical impact and to draw up a strategy with which we can help all refugees and all non-refugee citizens who are now living in afghanistan at risk of oppression and attacks on their most basic rights. we must stand in solidarity with the afghan women.
madam president, mr borrell, i would like to emphasize from this platform two contributions by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to this resolution, in view of the global challenge abruptly posed by the return of the taliban to absolute, despotic power and brutal discrimination against women. the first is the demand that the directive on temporary protection, which has not been used for 20 years, be activated and that those humanitarian air corridors which have proved so effective in evacuating people from the country - such as those received in torrejón, spain, in that effort which has been welcomed and recognised by the european union and its institutions - be accompanied by humanitarian visas in accordance with the mandate of this european parliament, which is still not fulfilled. the second is the outright rejection of the tone and content of the conclusions of the council of ministers for justice and home affairs under the slovenian presidency, which is obsessed with border control and with keeping an alleged mass flow of migrants and asylum seekers outside the union's borders. not only because it has not taken place and is false, but secondly because it is unfair to afghan girls and women, to rights activists who identify with freedoms... (the president withdraws the speaker from the floor).
madam president, the limited objectives achieved in the last 20 years in afghanistan were all development objectives, normally achieved by development professionals. so when we suspend development aid, we must remember that we are suspending the salaries of the doctors and the nurses and the teachers that have achieved those objectives. but we must not end humanitarian aid. it must continue based on the humanitarian principles of impartiality, independence, neutrality and transparency. i would call on the commission to exercise the flexibility that is required so that the thousands of development workers that are able to deliver humanitarian aid are allowed to continue to do that, perhaps under the rapid response pillar of the global europe instrument. i would also call on the commission to work on the flexibility required to make sure that we don’t fall foul unnecessarily of anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing objectives, in order to guarantee humanitarian access based on risk analysis and derogations. finally, i call on the commission to acknowledge that it is not an absolute requirement of international humanitarian law that a request for humanitarian assistance be made by the afghan government.
madam president, what is happening in afghanistan makes many people fear for their lives. one of them is the wife of my friend, rahima who is in kabul struggling right now. we have to make family reunification possible, extend the use of humanitarian visas and legal pathways from afghanistan, and help those who are in immediate danger, such as journalists, human rights defenders and activists. we need to ensure that the non-governmental organisations, such as doctors without borders, that assist the people with basic needs such as health care at this time, get all the help that they need from the eu. what we also need is a long—term strategy on afghanistan, and this can only arise from a shared foreign policy. how can we try to keep the country open and prevent future humanitarian crises without legitimising the taliban? i call for the eu and experts to find a way to protect the lives of millions of afghan civilians.
madam president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank mrs urpilainen, who is sadly no longer here. the western troops have withdrawn from afghanistan. the taliban are back in power, and this is fundamentally changing the way the european union works with afghanistan. afghanistan has been the country that has received the most development aid. now it is rightly exposed and only humanitarian aid is being provided. but of course we must answer the question of whether and how we are going to continue development aid in afghanistan soon. i am in favour of linking development aid to afghanistan to three clear conditions: firstly, security guarantees for foreign aid workers and their afghan colleagues. secondly, equal participation of women and girls. thirdly, effective measures against corruption. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not demand this in the talks with the taliban government and do not do it in practice, then we are not only betraying our values, but we are contributing to the taliban's realization that more people will want to flee, that afghanistan will again be more easily used as a refuge by islamic terrorists or even fall into their hands. so we need european development cooperation for the afghan people, not for the rulers. we need them as political levers in our talks with the taliban and as a thorn in their flesh, but not as their stabilizer or even their helper. we must not give up hope of an afghanistan free of oppression and poverty for the sake of afghan men and women who want to live in safety and dignity in their own country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i hear heads of state and government, and also colleagues in this room, say that europe must be protected from refugees. ladies and gentlemen, what we have to protect are european values. and we are protecting european values by providing humanitarian corridors for people who have fought alongside us for democracy and human rights in afghanistan, to get them out of that country and to bring them to us in europe. this is our european responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. and we need resettlement for refugees who are now stranded in other countries - i am grateful for what mr karas has just said. the heads of state and government of the european countries must make it clear that they are ready to take in refugees. and we need to activate the temporary protection directive. but afghanistan has also shown that we europeans are not capable of acting in defence policy. and i think that is why we must think about how we can get the european defence union on the road faster and how we can deepen it. and, mr bullmann, this is not a matter of swordplay, but of showing that we as europeans are capable of action and that we are independent of the united states on military matters.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. since the devastating explosion in beirut a year ago and the subsequent resignation of the government, lebanon has been in a catastrophic situation. that has already been said several times. the economy is in tatters. there's a shortage of gas, electricity, medicine, food, everything. iran and hezbollah are using the situation to win the sympathy of the lebanese people by supplying them with fuel. this was the plan of the united states, which even granted a special permission for business relations with assad, in order to allow a gas supply via syria to lebanon. the eu should also take action and seek new ways of doing things, rather than obstructing itself by continuing to refuse to deal with assad. therefore, the return of the oil fields in northern syria, which are obviously still under american control. and secondly, the sanctions against syria must be lifted at last. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in lebanon is not further destabilized. as i said, talks with assad are necessary and cannot be refused. we're also talking to the taliban. why not assad? with assad, the return of syrian refugees from the eu, turkey, jordan and also from lebanon - host to at least 1.5 million syrians - could be relieved and thus the country and the region could be relieved considerably. the syrians would also be helped, for they could return to their ancestral homeland. a win-win situation for all. it is time to stabilise and pacify the region before the problem is further cemented, as has already happened with the palestinians. the eu is now called upon to do its part.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we last debated here a year ago, shortly after the explosion in the port of beirut. since then, the situation has only worsened, to put it bluntly. i think we have a chance now. at least i have hope. when i heard that a new government was being formed in lebanon, i said, "okay, we have to take this opportunity now". but above all, this new lebanese government must seize this opportunity. because in a situation where we have runaway inflation, food shortages, no fuel, high unemployment, an economic crisis that is escalating into a social crisis, this new government must now regain the trust of its people. i believe that we as the european union must support this government in launching the necessary reforms in lebanon. at the same time, we must provide humanitarian aid to the population. the lebanese people are not only proud and accomplished, but above all they need our respect and support.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, today we are voting on the parliament's russia report. it is not just one document among many. the way we deal with moscow determines our european political capacity. because so far the government in the kremlin has been doing a pretty good job of playing us off against each other. my own government in berlin is the best example of this: the latest agreement with the americans on nord stream 2 over the heads of the ukrainians. the latest failed attempt by merkel and macron to sit down with putin over the heads of europeans. there's always something being decided over other people's heads. it is all about serving your own interests - not confidently and strategically, but submissively and short-sightedly: gas, market access, a friendly smile from moscow. but there is another way. and yes, it can be better. we in berlin must learn to derive german foreign policy interests from the european interest situation. we must learn to be european policy drivers rather than selfish policy brakes: less gas deals, more european solidarity. and that solidarity, we need it so much right now. the upcoming duma elections clearly show that the kremlin has finally broken with democracy. this is not just a nuisance. this is a shared strategic risk. and we must face that risk calmly but with confidence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr president, this report before us is a declaration of war in the cold war. it is aggressive in tone and content and does not allow for any possibility of constructive cooperation with russia. the majority of the people here may wish that, but you do not have the support of the majority of the citizens. in germany, three quarters of the electorate in a survey stated that they are in favour of nord stream 2. and it's no different in the other countries. the russophobia that is being cultivated here has no roots in the populations and is also characterized by double standards. we're talking about mr. navalny, a highly problematic racist. but why is no one talking about mr medvedchuk, the opposition leader in kiev, who is under house arrest? one of them can be jailed, the elected parliamentarian, and the other, with economic crimes, can't. you can't explain that, any more than you can explain your russophobia. and that is why we will continue to work to achieve peace through understanding, through understanding and through diplomacy - even if we are in the minority. no to the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report accuses russia of expanding its sphere of influence, discrediting western liberal democracy, flouting international law and lgbt rights, and, one might say, pursuing its own national interests. perhaps part of the eu's climate policy is to politically trigger new ice ages. the report is hardly a recipe for better relations with russia. i would ask you to consider: who has been assisting nato in its post-liberal crusades from the atlantic to the hindu kush for the last 20 years? who funds western ngos in russia? and who intervened unlawfully in iraq and libya? who else but the eu and its members? but compared to russia, it's pretty much a failure. afghanistan learns: russia learns from its mistakes eu never does.
good evening, dear colleagues. before continuing with the debate, i will now move to the results of today’s voting session.
(after the announcement of voting results) before continuing with the debates, i would like to give the floor, pursuant to rule 59(4), to ms trillet—lenoir on the referral back to the committee responsible for interinstitutional negotiations of the report by ms kopcińska on the european centre for disease prevention and control and her own report on the serious cross—border threats to health. i give the floor to ms trillet-lenoir for one minute. these requests will then be put to the vote after the vote on the commission’s proposals.
we now move on to the report by mr andrius kubilius (a9-0259/2021).
president, they are lying, we know they are lying and they know we know they are lying. these historic words from the gulag archipelago still apply to the reign of terror in moscow. russia, where lawlessness and arbitrariness reign and where in the courtroom plays are staged with a prosecutor in uniform and a judge in a clerical dress. "when the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do?" says psalm 11. fortunately, there are people who stood up and stood up for a better and different russia: the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. navalny recently received the prize for moral courage from the forum for human rights and democracy in geneva. let us support him and the russian opposition by awarding him the sakharov prize of this parliament.
madam president, i would like to thank you. climate change is our single greatest security threat. the phasing out of fossil fuels will change the geopolitical dynamics of the world be so sure! it is in russia's own interest not to fall behind in climate change. the eu therefore needs to step up its efforts, together with the us, in the run-up to cop 26 to promote dialogue and cooperation with russia in order to jointly tackle global climate change. the eu's relations with russia must be climate-safe. at the same time, the eu must also broaden and develop its support for democracy, human rights, gender equality, the environment and climate. the support should strategically promote democratic development and contribute to strengthening freedom of expression, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the eu should continue to support civil society and promote intercultural exchanges. the political developments in russia are extremely worrying, but the citizens of russia, like all peoples, aspire to a democratic future. we should support a democratic future in russia patiently, long-term and sustainably.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur, mr kubilius, for his detailed and ambitious report. russia is usually in our debates. it is a neighbouring european country with which we have many links and it is an important international player. russia cannot be indifferent to us. but unfortunately our relations with russia are going through a very negative phase. the 2008 georgian war, the 2014 illegal annexation of crimea and the conflict in the eastern regions of ukraine are the main causes, along with the authoritarian drift in russian domestic politics. we're on a line of increasing distance. moscow has different interests from those of the european union, often in conflict, and a different vision of the international order from a revisionist and anachronistic position. the commission's interventionist attitude, aiding and promoting destabilising manoeuvres in member states, is also very worrying. recently, the media has revealed his connections with catalan secessionists. i find it very difficult that the relationship with russia, with present-day russia, can improve. in terms of democratic values and principles, putin also seeks to differentiate himself clearly from the european union.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank mr kubilius for this report. the report says exactly what i said in the last resolution: we must look beyond the margins, because there is also a russia after putin, and putin is not russia. and that's what the report reflects beautifully - for the first time, that it reflects that. mr. kubilius, thank you for taking up this matter. yes, the record is clear in its clarity and truth, and it speaks a clear language. but now it is up to us to follow suit by saying: we must now give a signal that we are not just going to stop with these speeches, but we must now give a signal by involving the countries of georgia, ukraine, moldova more and bringing europe under one roof. georgia is already there, georgia belongs under the roof of europe and ukraine: i have just returned from ukraine on friday, and we must help those people who are so sincere and who aspire to europe and want to go to europe, so that they can achieve this as quickly as possible. we need to put some dynamics in there so that we can set the tone. but we must also set signs - and i agree with that - that we must not equate the eu with nato. that is to say, these countries should refrain from becoming nato members, but instead come under the umbrella of the eu, and as soon as possible. and if we take that to heart, then we will also find a way to democratize russia. but that will not be the case until after putin.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a memorable evening: we have first made our position very clear against russia, and now we are making our position no less clear against china - in short, against anyone who thinks differently from us. i often hear in this house about neo-colonialism and how good it is that we have broken with the colonial past. but if the west, if europe, thinks it has to teach the whole world, is that not neo-colonialism? western universalism and the western world order are over in the 21st century. the old developing countries are coming back strong, and of course they will not do what we want, but we must enter into a dialogue with them, based first of all on the assumption that we are equal. it's called diplomacy. and where we aim for it, we succeed. and here again, the people outside are smarter than we are here in the house, in the majority: with nord stream 2, it is three quarters who were for completion according to the polls. in china, 78% of the population cannot be dragged into a new cold war - at least in germany. take the example of the voters and do not let yourselves be dragged into a cold war!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, just yesterday i talked to a young entrepreneur from berlin, who told me it took him one and a half years to get a visa for the programmer to come to berlin. one and a half years during which this it professional could have gone anywhere in the world. in a global competition for talent, that’s just not good enough. if you want to attract talent to europe, you need to be attractive, and that’s why i’m super happy that today we can celebrate the agreement on the new blue card with you from the commission as well, because finally, people can move from one member state to the next within one month. finally, people can take with them the years they agglomerated on long-term residence from one country to the next, making it much more attractive to come to europe in the first place. and finally, it professionals can apply for the blue card even without a university degree, making this blue card the ultimate european tech visa. so today is a day of celebration, and tomorrow we should put our heads together again to ensure that it comes into effect as fast as possible and to tackle, one by one, all pathways for labour migration so that people don’t have to wait one and a half years if they have a job offer in europe.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not i think everyone in this room thinks highly skilled immigration makes sense. but, mr sanchez, that is not the point. this is another false flag action, because you want to not only lower the income limits, but also bring in seasonal workers. and mrs johannson herself said that we also need cooks, tile layers and, of course, above all, afghans. of course, they're all super-qualified, and spouses should have immediate access to the job market. but if the spouses are not highly qualified, i do not see how you can say that there is no social dumping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. we have almost 15 million unemployed at the moment. but you don't care about them, instead of doing something for them, you are only concerned with widening the channels of legal migration and promoting migration in every way possible. in other words, mr sánchez, you do not give a damn about the workers, and especially about the unemployed in europe, and that is very sad.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today, 700 years ago, dante alighieri, one of the world's greatest poets, died, and i would much rather talk about this european genius and his divine comedy than about the brexit adjustment fund and the associated bullshit about who gets the most out of this honey pot of the charitable commission. i have already expressed my opposition to this redistribution instrument on several occasions, including here. i do not need to repeat my criticism. but the way these funds are now being disputed and the criteria for their distribution, that france should suddenly receive 100 million euros more than the largest contributor, germany, makes me sad. i am not an enemy of europe, i am only a critic of the eu and some of its excesses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. you want to jeopardize the friendly relationship between the two countries for 100 million euros? and you, dear commission, when will you finally stop pumping the eu up with ever new redistributive activities into a european superstate? pull the rip cord before the overstretched eu flies by your ears.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the brexit is and remains the biggest failure of european politics in recent years. to ensure that no more people suffer the consequences of brexit, we are voting today on the brexit reserve. five billion euros will be paid directly to the regions and sectors most affected, to north sea coastal fishermen, to small and medium-sized enterprises, to organisations advising workers and also to support eu citizens moving back to the european union from the uk. the brexit reserve is designed to help where brexit is most painful economically. it is important for us greens that the funds are not simply paid out as a water jug, but that they go to climate-friendly and socially sustainable projects. we are shocked by the behaviour of the german federal government, which is clearly planning to let the funds in the federal budget run dry. we call on finance minister olaf scholz to transfer the funds to the länder so that the money can go where it is needed most urgently. clear the way for this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing the state of the union today, and frankly, i am concerned about the state of our union in the climate arena. the fact that cities in greece are burning and have to be evacuated, or that people in germany have to flee from the floodwaters, shows that we are already in the midst of the climate crisis. madam president, you promised the citizens that europe would become climate-neutral as soon as possible, and you yourself compared this to the human task of landing on the moon. and, madame von der leyen, that's all right, but with the handbrake on, we won't make it to the moon. leading climate scientists warn that we're breaking the 1.5 degree mark even faster than we thought. and so we simply cannot afford to wait until after 2030 for the key measures you have proposed. climate change, you can't put that off, because that robs future generations of their freedom. climate action also requires us to take global responsibility. but even though the amazon is on the verge of collapse, your commission is still sticking to the trade agreement with the mercosur countries and is still pushing ahead with the destruction of the rainforest. a green deal that spares trade policy is more than a handbrake. and i say very clearly here: we can no longer afford these contradictions and these triple steps. the eu can do more, it must do more. we have succeeded in building a union of peace, we have created the single market. and now it is about rethinking this very single market and making it a climate-friendly one, with a rapid move away from coal and gas and towards a genuine circular economy. and the counterpart to our internal market is our external economic relations. we must finally build our supply chains free of climate destruction and human rights violations. and in that context, i am really very pleased that you have proposed today our green call for a stop to imports of products of forced labour. this is really revolutionary. and this will give the eu a tool to combat slavery effectively worldwide.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe can keep its head above water, yes. europe can contribute to resolving crises, yes. but that's not enough. europe is still too slow and too often in the wrong. europe, we, must become better. that is what the people of this united europe want. the pandemic has shown that europe is not going to collapse, but it is not going to make a world-changing change, mrs von der leyen. we have to change that. let us make europe a global player, from crisis manager to political vanguard of the west - that must be our claim. the western foreign and defence policy debacle in afghanistan has shown ruthlessly how helpless europe is. and not just there: on the eastern flank of europe, putin is threateningly flexing his muscles, along with a lukashenko regime that has nothing to lose. all this shows us that europe is still sitting at the cat table of foreign and defence policy. but we must not be a union of words and announcements, but a union of deeds, a union of real and effective strength. it is now or never that we must formulate and implement this political compass, this political departure, mrs von der leyen. the conference on the future of europe. it is not an end in itself, not occupational therapy, but a political urgency and priority. the european union is also a major contributor to the development of the european economy. the european union is the world's leading industrial powerhouse. finally, a european response to china's appetite for power and influence, to become a serious advocate of citizens and human rights. let's get on with the reforms! if necessary, with a change of contract. if we seize these opportunities, we will be world-changing in action and in deeds!
in writing. ms von der leyen wants more europe for better care and more work-life balance. she takes machiavelli's advice to leave no crisis untouched a little too seriously. the coronavirus crisis has already made the green deal and the liability union possible. it's got to end sometime. but no, mrs von der leyen now wants us to issue a round of german social standards throughout europe. of course, it needs better care. especially in germany. after 16 years of merkel-cdu wrangling, it can be said that nursing professions are still unattractive today. all the reform attempts were as childish as their names, most recently the "personnel strengthening act". few nurses make it to retirement. nurses are burned in rows and in sight. they are poorly paid, work in shifts and are under great pressure to keep up with the times. what makes care, the human factor, has been bureaucratized and rationalised as best it can be. and the demand is growing. people are getting older. germany needs skilled nurses. you almost wish the eu would intervene. it's hard to imagine that it could get any worse. but the eu has no right to interfere in the social and care systems of the member states. and as hard as it is to believe, it could certainly be worse.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. tax evasion and tax evasion are real problems that need to be tackled. we support this objective, but not without objections. firstly, we have not only a tax evasion problem, but a tax avoidance problem. multinationals sometimes pay less than one per cent tax on their eu profits, and international banks are all too happy to move their billions of dollars of profits offshore. we have a tax equity problem and a tax waste problem and therefore far too high taxes. hundreds of billions of tax dollars are wasted on world-saving projects such as unskilled mass immigration through the labour market directly into the social network and a climate policy that must fail because the eu's contribution to global co2 emissions of less than 8% is meaningless. second, ngos remain tax-exempt and exempt from money laundering regulation, despite moneyval, the european court of auditors and the financial action task force all warning that multi-billion dollar pro-migration and climate-saving ngos, trusts and foundations also acted as vehicles for money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion. so no more eu exceptions for politically-minded ngos! and thirdly, please bury your plans for a comprehensive eu asset register as soon as possible. tax policy is not the responsibility of the eu, but of the member states. so if you want to fight tax evasion, please do it legally and not illegally. in the rule of law, i think, the end does not justify the means.
madam president, this is my phone. i take it everywhere, apparently. i do 1 000 things with it, to a degree that sometimes my husband is even jealous about the intimate relationship the two of us are having. but now imagine your biggest enemy sits in this phone. the person now wants to know everything about your contacts, the person now wants to see you dead, and there’s nothing you can do about it because you don’t even know it. and that is what pegasus is about. it’s about deliberately targeting human rights defenders. it’s about deliberately targeting eu citizens. it’s maybe about deliberately targeting one of us because of the human rights work we do. this is a whole industry gone rogue, in a deadly alliance with the worst dictators of this world, making human rights work impossible. the commissioner had many nice words and strategies. first of all, it’s about enforcement. second, commissioner, this whole thing has a foreign policy and human rights dimension you haven’t even spoken about. we need a global ban on the export of these kinds of spyware and we need to ask tough questions of other governments, including those in israel and saudi arabia.
madam president, there are technologies that can be born as software geared to fighting terrorism and crime and that can become malware, can lead to abuse. its creators said that the limit of its sale would be that of governments that guarantee that the ultimate purpose of this technology and its use would be legitimized according to the law in force in each of the territories. and it's serious, because we're dealing with a serious scandal. it is essential that we require prior judicial review of measures which may affect the inviolability of domicile and the secrecy of communications. spain requires the authorisation of a judge of the supreme court. such guarantees should be required in all member states and, moreover, properly applied. in the case of third countries with authoritarian regimes, it is clear that they must have their access to something like this absolutely blocked. we must investigate any abuse and we must be concerned, as mrs loiseau has said, also about interference; about things that are happening in this parliament with russian agents or with relations with russian interference interests. we must also investigate what is happening in the immediate environment of a member of the european parliament in relation to russian agents.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. journalism is not a crime. and yet journalists have been spied on like criminals in the middle of europe - that is a scandal! and we all rightly deplore that today. but the right consequences don't follow. the same people who are complaining about this scandal today are working tomorrow on ways to increase surveillance. there are not security holes for good purposes, where you say, "surveillance is good", or for bad purposes, where a foreign intelligence agency does it. there are security holes that can be used in both directions. secure, confidential communication is for all of us or for no one. the consequences of the pegasus scandal must therefore be clear: member states must finally close security gaps in europe in a consistent way, instead of deliberately leaving them open to be monitored by themselves. we need more civil rights in the digital age. we need a right to encryption in the digital age. we need a rethink in security policy. only in this way can we protect the foundations of our democracy, namely freedom of the press and privacy.
i have to say, madam president, we all want our private messages and photos to be private and safe from hackers. but our governments and europol would rather exploit dangerous security holes themselves to spy and monitor than to close them. do you realize that by buying security holes and spyware, you're funding organized crime? the council is currently attacking the eprivacy rules on the protection of communications data. and as for the european commission, instead of finally blaming manufacturers for self-inflicted security flaws, you are calling for mass surveillance and new security flaws in encryption technology to be built into the pretext of searching for child pornography. this is unbelievable! the citizens want you to finally put the security of our private smartphones above their own desires and the profit interests of the industry. be honest with yourself.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there is one country, germany, which should be the focus of attention when we talk about media pluralism. germany has four major media players. one is the public broadcaster, which is so thoroughly green-left that even the respected neue zürcher zeitung recently wrote that the news and talk shows are pure government propaganda. the second major player is the bertelsmann group, which publishes the star and the mirror, among others. their influence is also never considered here. this may be because the corrupt elmar brok, who was a member of parliament for many years, was also on bertelsmann's pay list for decades during his time as a member of parliament. no one's looking there either. and then, of course, we have the german social democrats, the spd. so, you have to imagine that a party that has been in government for years owns one of the largest newspaper groups in germany. this was and is obviously not a problem for the eu. and mr. lópez aguilar would probably bite his tongue off rather than criticize his friend mrs. barley's newspaper business. so before you criticize poland, you should start with germany. because when it comes to pluralism of opinion and a free press, it is not poland that has a problem, but germany in particular.
i have to say, madam president, of course, mr fest has just escaped and cannot bear to hear the absurdity of his accusations. a left-leaning government station in germany? the greens are in opposition with us. so that alone shows how absurd his argument is. madam president, today is the international day of democracy, and that calls on everyone to respect and defend democracy. but what does democracy mean? it means limited power for a limited amount of time and with limits in its structure, separation of powers, checks and balances. it means free media and protection of minorities, and a lot more. what do we witness in poland? a judiciary, where an unlawful disciplinary chamber punishes judges and prosecutors that dare to object to the government's will. we see women deprived of their rights to safe abortion, and recently the attempt to eliminate a tv channel that might comment critically on political matters. we hear the same old story from our polish colleagues over and over again. but no, just because a government has come into power democratically does not mean that everything it does is necessarily democratic. just because your laws resemble some of those in other member states does not mean that their effect is automatically the same. the decisive question remains: does the polish government regard an effective control by an independent judiciary and a critical media as necessary even important or essential? the answer is "no". we see it every day. this is different to what we see in other member states. it's not just the letter of the law, it's the effect that you see on the ground, and that's different. the polish people go to the streets for this idea; we've seen it in the past and we're seeing it now. because democracy is nothing abstract: it influences the life of every single person; it protects citizens. that's what democracy is for not because someone is a judge, or because someone is a pregnant woman, but because democracy is for every single citizen, every single one of us. it's for polish citizens. it's for european citizens. it's for the european idea. so let's be clear on this, and stand with the polish people who desire democracy.
madam president, the eu is currently withholding poland’s corona funds because poland is allegedly politicising the judiciary and limiting foreign ownership of the media to minority stakes. let’s compare poland’s reforms with reality in germany again. in germany, public prosecutors are not independent. judges may be members of political parties and top judges are all effectively appointed by the governing parties. recently, chancellor merkel engineered the elevation of a vice-chair of her own parliamentary party to the presidency of the august constitutional court, to ensure the court will never rule against the ecb again. meanwhile, the key media channels in germany are all effectively controlled by political appointees, while rt is denied a tv licence. the rule of law, let me remind you, does not countenance double standards.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the german chancellor was in warsaw a few days ago and stressed that the solution to the conflict with the polish government must above all be found in dialogue. the european commission has been in dialogue for years now, and so far i cannot see any change in the erosion of the rule of law, the restriction of media freedom and the attacks on minorities. i think it is very right in this sense that the commission has now asked for the fines in defiance of the ecj judgment. however, even if the fines are imposed, this can only address the situation of this one court judgment and not the long list of problems in poland. we have had a rule of law conditionality since 1 january which would be a more effective tool to tackle the long list of rule of law problems and threats to the financial interests of the union. the commission president von der leyen announced this morning that the rule of law and the union budget will soon be protected. i wonder what we're waiting for? why not start protecting it here and now, today, because the rule of law in the european union and in poland is in a deep crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is not the first time we have debated this question, but i must say that i have been continually surprised by some of the statements made by colleagues here. we were going to attack poland. i think that one statement has even just been made: we wanted to destroy poland. i would like to emphatically reject this scandalous statement by a colleague. and frankly, we're about the opposite. we are concerned solely with ensuring the rule of law in europe. so let's get back to the facts. what's the situation? there is a judgment of the european court of justice. poland will not comply with this judgment. and consequently the european commission has asked for fines. this is a normal process - not really a normal process, because it hasn't really come to this. in fact, the red line has been to follow the judgments of the european court of justice. that is why we have already had fines applied for against poland. the case concerned illegal eu deforestation. 100,000 euros were wagered on it every day. i think that when it comes to the deforestation of the european rule of law, i will leave it to the european court of justice to decide ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted, but i am saying that it has not been consulted. i certainly don't do that for myself, and neither do my colleagues. if we reject this motion, it will be for purely objective reasons: first, article 83 covers serious crimes such as terrorism, organised crime, drugs and trafficking in human beings. gender-based violence doesn't really fit in there. secondly, the crimes referred to in article 83 must have a cross-border dimension. you have never explained how and why this should be the case. and there must be a special need for european regulation. i can't see them here either. in short, there is no reason - no reasonable reason - to include gender-based violence in the catalogue of article 83. it is also not clear what gender-based violence is. the report mentions patriarchal structures, male dominance and even psychological violence. these are buzzwords, but not clear legal terms. and criminal law needs very clear legal terms. this is even a constitutional requirement, because criminal law standards must be defined. this means that anyone who agrees to these vague legal concepts and this proposal is violating the very rule of law that is always held in such high regard in this house.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable mr tobé, honourable members, thank you for giving the commission the opportunity to address this urgent and global issue. you have perfectly described it. we are all aware of the global community’s commitments to make the world a better place, with good opportunities for everybody, and especially to make the right for decent food real for everybody. this should be guided by the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, yet i cannot help but stress that in 2021 we still have a long way to go to meet our targets. allow me to focus on sustainable development goal number two: ending hunger. the most recent reports are extremely worrisome. ten per cent of the global population suffers from undernourishment. nearly one in three people in the world did not have access to adequate food in 2020, with an increase of 320 million people in just one year. more and more people are thrown into food crisis, more and more children stunted and wasted. conflict, economic shocks and weather extremes remain the main drivers of hunger. this is unacceptable because we have both the means and the technology to eradicate hunger. this is unacceptable. so in europe we are slowly but steadily starting to recover from the covid—19 pandemic. we have committed to build back better, and this starts first and foremost with our agrifood system. as part of the european green deal we unveiled our farm to fork strategy. it aims to make our food systems fair, healthy and environmentally friendly. but we cannot act alone. the covid—19 pandemic has demonstrated that we are all interconnected. the shift to sustainable food systems needs to be global. 2021 has been coined the super year for nature in multilateral circles. this is the year of the climate cop26, the biodiversity cop15 and the high—level dialogue on energy. it is also the year of the vitally important united nations secretary-general’s food system summit and the nutrition for growth summit that will follow at the end of this year. the eu has been active in the preparation of both summits, and we look forward to both their outcomes. as outlined in the council conclusions adopted in may we are committed to achieving an ambitious outcome at the summit with our partner countries. we are already active in africa. agriculture ministers of the eu and the african union met in june to discuss partnerships for sustainable agriculture and food systems, and we are working with our partners on sustainable land management. as announced by president von der leyen, the eu has committed eur 700 million of investment per year for great green wall related investments. i can also mention our work in the global network against food crises, which seeks to prevent the next food crisis. this is done in full collaboration with partners such as the united states and regional organisations. our desira programme on agriculture research for development supports agro—ecology and research and innovation programmes in africa, asia and latin america. finally, the nutrition for growth summit in tokyo in december will also be an important multilateral event. we need to maintain momentum on this important topic and ensure the summit will be a real turning point in the fight against malnutrition. madam president, honourable members, thank you for inviting me, for inviting the commission, to this debate, and i look forward to hearing your insights on this really very important question.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am very pleased about today's debate. the upcoming un food systems summit is a unique opportunity to make global food systems more resilient, equitable, efficient and sustainable. the un secretary general has made him the chief of staff. just because we are full, ladies and gentlemen, and sometimes full, we must not lose sight of the world. fifteen thousand children die of hunger every day. it was horrible. a global issue requires global answers and global responsibility. not just in theory, but in practice. the eu has taken a leading role with the green deal and especially the 'farm to fork' strategy. we are right to do so, because our partners in the developing countries are desperately looking for our support, our knowledge and our experience. for example, in research partnerships for sustainable food systems. the covid-19 shock has thrown back the developing and emerging economies. so our goal must be to end hunger, to end malnutrition and overnutrition worldwide, and to protect our planet. because there is no area where the human rights of so many people are violated as in the food system. farmers, smallholders and women are central to this. innovation combined with consultancy has already produced the best results at the lowest cost. what they still need is investment in education and training, good agricultural practices and scientific exchange, and thus access to jobs and minimal social protection at least. the whole food chain, from resource use to consumer, must be tested. and it requires a willingness to overcome the crusted structures, for example in the relations between europe and africa, which we must put on new and fair footing. we have a key role to play in preparing for this summit and beyond! i'm working on it.
mr president, the world food situation is alarming. current agro-industrial food systems are failing to feed the world's population in a sustainable and healthy way. we also know that food insecurity existed long before the covid-19 pandemic and that the pandemic has made the situation even worse. in the new report on the state of food security and nutrition in the world by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, it is clear that we are not moving in the right direction, for any of the nutrition indicators, to achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals. the high cost of healthy food and socioeconomic inequalities deprive about three billion people of a healthy diet. children are starving. it is clear that our current food systems will create long-term humanitarian crisis situations. we need to be sure that at the nutrition for growth summit in december 2021 in japan, the european union will promote a profound transformation of our food systems to make them resilient, sustainable and equitable. my colleagues and i believe that the commission must make a firm political and financial commitment to contribute to the achievement of the second development objective, the eradication of hunger in the world, for the period 2021-2027.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have to admit we've been wrong all along. we ship soybeans across the ocean, fueled by cheap crude oil, then transport them by truck across high alpine passes, to finally feed them in inhospitable mass-fishing facilities. we are destroying rainforests, depriving indigenous people of their livelihoods, and warming the global climate every day. we europeans are fed up with it. we're sick of this madness! what can and must the eu do? first, it must commit companies to respecting the environment and human rights through a clear and binding supply chain law. secondly, it must set minimum environmental and social standards for imports in trade agreements. it's the least i can do. and thirdly, it must stop harmful subsidies in europe. there are good alternatives, organic, solidarity farming, permaculture, urban farming, regional cycles. what are we waiting for?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we're talking today about reversing the negative social impact of the covid-19 pandemic. but are we really talking about the effects of covid-19? i don't think it was. i think we are talking here today about the consequences of the measures taken by our governments. and that's where we're talking about the side effects of the lockdown in the first place. and i want to make this very clear: this lockdown was unplanned, and it was pointless. the german health system, for example, was never even close to being overloaded. and at the same time, in the midst of this crisis, we've closed hospitals and reduced intensive care beds! i'm afraid that's a fact. and now we're talking about the consequences, the consequences of the actions that governments have taken on our people. and these measures and these consequences are indeed devastating. the right groups have been addressed, commissioner, you have addressed the children. kindergartens and schools should never have been closed! it was medically unjustified in any way, and the consequences are catastrophic. childhood obesity and attention deficit disorder are commonplace. and, commissioner, you have addressed the women. the women have actually borne the brunt of the burden. they had to raise their children. many are single parents. those who are not single parents have had massive problems, in their relationships for example. domestic violence has exploded. in my home state of north rhine-westphalia, not a single woman or child could be admitted to a women's shelter from november to january because the places were completely overcrowded. so all of us, if we think of ourselves as politicians, we've made these problems. and that's the shit we need to clean up now, not the disease. it was us, our choices, that led us to these problems, which now people - and indeed it was said again correctly - the weakest of the weak have to exploit, not the strong, who have profited from this crisis. so i ask very clearly: let us make policy in the future with reason, with prudence. and never lockdown again!
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i asked myself today: how many times this year has the commission actually quoted the eurobarometer figure that nine out of ten european women say that for them the european, the social europe and the capacity to act are very important here? and i asked myself today: where was social europe in the state of the union speech? i barely spotted it. i am therefore glad that you have answered our questions, commissioner, dear nicolas. but it is also important to be clear here that i have really had great doubts today whether the top-level commissioners really understood what kind of crisis this pandemic has caused, how it affects millions of people and that it is at the same time a crisis that is hitting everywhere but affects people very differently. i thought it was good that the union had managed to prevent a really big mass unemployment through the sure programme, because it had reacted quickly and courageously. this was super important so that we would not have the same unemployment fate as in the financial crisis. an evaluation of sure is a first step. but my question is: will the commission keep its promise to introduce a european unemployment insurance scheme and not lose it along the way? the second point: i thought it was good that the directive on the european minimum income was mentioned. poverty and inequality have increased in this crisis. but again, the question is: when can we expect that there will be a proposal? because it would also give people a perspective and build confidence that we are not just talking here, but that the european union is acting. so my question to the 2022 work programme is: what do we find in it about these questions?
(the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes) after the results of the vote have been announced:the president. before we get to the debate, i would like to give the floor to mr daniel freund, who has asked to speak, pursuant to rule 159 (4), on his report on improving transparency and integrity in the eu institutions by setting up an independent eu ethics panel (2020/2133 (ini)) (a9-0260/2021).
rapporteur. – madam president, two years ago this house defended the integrity of the eu institutions when we were examining the commissioner candidates. three of those candidates were rejected because of conflicts of interest. those conflicts, of course could have reduced the ability to do politics in the best interest of european citizens, so two years ago we made european politics cleaner, more trustworthy and more upright. today, again, we have the chance to make european politics more transparent, because we’re voting today on this report to establish an independent eu ethics body. this should clearly send the message: eu politics is not for sale. good rules need independent control to be clearly enforced. some might argue that the rules that we have on lobbying, on conflicts of interest, on revolving doors are already really good, and i would agree. brussels is leading by example on this. but in the past we have also witnessed that these good rules are not properly enforced. our rules did not stop adam farkas, for example, from switching right from banking supervisor to chief lobbyist for the banking industry. our rules have also not stopped former commissioner oettinger from accepting 17 new jobs during his cooling-off period, seven of which are for organisations on the eu lobby register, including his own lobby consultancy. our rules failed because the current system of self-policing does not work. if former top officials start their own lobby business, it automatically creates the impression that politics are for sale. and that has really bad consequences – we all know that, we hear it in our constituencies – and the few black sheep should not ruin all the good and hard work that all of us do here every day. so i hope that a large majority of this house will today accept this report and that we can then start the negotiations with the other institutions on this.
the vote will take place at a later date.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on 'united states sanctions and the rule of law' by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs [2021/2868 (rsp) ] (o-000057/2021 - b9-0034/21). i would remind you again at the beginning of today's sitting that no spontaneous speeches or blue cards will be accepted in any of the debates of this sitting. as in the past, there will also be contacts from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, commissioner johansson, the situation in bulgaria is much worse than what is reported in all the monitoring of the european commission. and thanks to the change in government, we can better grasp today the scope of corruption, of nepotism, of money laundering that is taking place in the country. and it also shows the failure of the commission to really do anything about this. i was in sofia two weeks ago. i spoke with a number of officials from the interim government, and the stories that you hear are shocking. there are stories of bags full of cash in government offices. there are state assets being looted. there are – or there were – criminals with direct access to the former prime minister. and it’s in this environment that the us sanctions came, and to quote a bulgarian politician, it dropped a political bomb. so these magnitsky sanctions against three corrupt oligarchs – one of them, vassil bojkov, known for bribing the government, known for his connections to russia. i think these sanctions had the desired effect. the individuals were named, shamed and sanctioned. and if you see that bulgarian officials are actually hoping for a second round, at least the americans are doing something when the europeans so far remain inactive. so it is a shame that this decisive action doesn’t come from brussels, it doesn’t come from europe: we rely on the americans to help out with the fight against corruption and the stealing – including of eu taxpayer money – in the country. so dear colleagues, i think we can all agree that this doesn’t look good for the european commission. it shows that the measures are not working. you have said today that you will monitor the situation, but monitoring isn’t preventing or fixing anything. and you have also said that you will make full use of all the tools – but clearly, you are not making use of all the tools. the rule-of-law conditionality mechanism has already been mentioned, but let me also say that the bulgarian officials actually told me that they had asked for help – not only the commission, also the member state’s government – they want technical assistance on money laundering, on public procurement officials, on how to reform the administration, and they are saying that they’re not getting that help. so how is this possible? why don’t we protect effectively eu taxpayer money, including in bulgaria? why does it take us sanctions to tackle corruption, and why aren’t we helping with that? and why don’t we at least help a member state government, when it’s asking for help and for technical assistance?
the next item is the first round of voting. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 9.30 a.m. to 10.45 a.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 10.45. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the subject of 'united states sanctions and the rule of law' by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000057/2021 - b9-0034/21) (2021/2868 ((rsp)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what do the sanctions tell us? they show that our commission is so geopolitical that it is apparently not doing enough homework in its own area within the european union. the united states is taking action against corruption in the eu, while we as the european union are not, or too little. the u.s. is taking action against corruption, we're writing reports. and it is a good step that the european commission announced yesterday that it will soon propose concrete recommendations in the rule of law report but it is a step overdue, even at this point. we must finally apply the rule of law mechanism in europe too. and if the commission were to invest a little of the effort it is investing in fighting the european parliament legally about when it should use this mechanism now, in actually doing something and actually taking action against corruption and the misuse of eu funds, then we would be a long way along. at the same time, we must strengthen the european public prosecutor's office. it is not possible that we have to fight every year as the european parliament to ensure that the additional posts, the additional posts at the eppo actually arrive there. and that we as the european parliament must help the eppo every time again so that we can finally equip this authority properly. corruption is destroying trust. we have just seen this from the french right, which has already said that we cannot be sure what happens to this money, which is being stored somewhere, so we would rather invest this money directly in france. that is exactly what will happen if we allow this corruption, if we allow the misuse of eu funds to continue like this. it will destroy confidence in the european project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council has also been unwilling to stand up to the pressure of the member states. and that is why the era of merkel must end, as must the era in which the heads of government protect each other and do not take concrete action against abuse and corruption.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the 'violent government crackdown on protesters and citizens in cuba' (2021/2872 ((rsp)) '. __________* see minutes of the sitting
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, on thursdays this house is fondly debating issues in faraway places about which we know little. today it is cuba. presently, there are shortages of essential foodstuffs and medicine and problems in the management of the covid virus wave. the issue today is whether or not to condemn cuba for its mishandling of public protests and restrictions of media freedom. we unreservedly condemn police violence against peaceful protestors and restrictions on civil liberties in cuba or elsewhere. however, let me remind you that during the covid crisis, eu member states have imposed unprecedented curfews and limits on our freedoms of assembly and of expression, especially on social media. in france and other member states, no one can now enter restaurants, bars or even supermarkets without a valid covid passport or test. in italy, mario draghi is making the covid passport compulsory for workers and, apparently, also considered restricting access to polling stations to the vaccinated. even this house is still considering restricting entry to holders of covid passports. before taking others to task, i strongly recommend we get our own house in order first.
madam president, good morning from the house of lords. i'm very surprised by what i've heard here today. first of all, to mr pineda, i do not know what you had for breakfast this morning, but i thought your speech was incredible, incredible! how can you be so contemptuous of people? you are not on the side of the cuban people, if you speak for the government, then you do not know what is happening in cuba: human rights violations are daily occurrences, human rights organizations are denied access to the country, torture, murder, manslaughter - this is the order of the day in cuba. shortage, shortage of food, shortage of health care, that's the order of the day in cuba. the last remnant of communism. because the trading partners broke away in 1980, because this system has failed in europe. you're saying the government is to blame for us, so now the government has to act? yes, there are probably well over 5,000 people incarcerated in the prisons there in cuba. yes, and no one has died, people are dying every day in cuba! and it's not necessarily the american embargo that's to blame. of course, there is complicity, i would not deny that, but not alone. as i said, the trading partners have broken away because the world order has changed. and we in this parliament stand for peace, for freedom, for freedom of expression and for the rule of law. and we do not stand for dictators who subjugate their people, mr. pineda. and that's probably why you're sitting in the wrong seat. i was really getting excited about it. what you are doing here is not for europe, it is not for european freedom, it is not for our policy in the world. we are a peaceful people, and we do not support dictators! that's why i was really excited about you. yes, we must act. and we need to talk to cuba. we need to have a dialogue. i say trade through change or change through trade. and we must ensure that human rights organizations come to the country to inspect the prisons. and we have to make sure that human rights are respected. (the president cut the speaker off) )
(addressing mr pineda) sorry, it was clear that the rules for this debate are that we do not have blue cards and spontaneous possibilities. it’s because of the covid rules. sorry, it’s not possible. i understand the problem but i cannot take you. please, i am speaking now. i know it’s a problem but, with the rules we have – and i announced it at the start of this debate – i cannot give you the floor now, i’m sorry. we are discussing in the bureau of this parliament if we can come back to blue cards and the other possibilities where you can speak and discuss in this house in such a situation, but for the moment it’s not possible because the decisions of this parliament are otherwise. ok? sorry, next time please.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i too had written down the remarks of mr pineda, who actually said that there was no political oppression in cuba. that's amusing, but i think it's more in the realm of pranking. other things we've heard here have been amazing, too. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. mr lópez, of the socialists, says that when the trade and cooperation agreement with cuba was signed, the situation in cuba was as miserable and as shitty as it is today. i think that cynicism is something that you can only afford if you're a socialist. and then we heard from our spanish colleague who was on the line that the gains of the revolution were now at stake. i don't know what these accomplishments are. probably the most bitter poverty, the failure of the health system and the fact that many would rather leave behind the gains of the revolution and leave the country. the european union is a great example of a great europe, a great europe, a great europe, a great europe. what are these european values if we do not live them with cuba in mind? the left is constantly quoting them against poland and hungary. but when it comes to the terrorist regimes in cuba or venezuela, we are moving away from these european values, and indeed we are distancing ourselves from them. in this respect, you should really consider whether you are living this contradiction here or whether, in the case of cuba, you are not living the values - the european values - that you have always advocated. these values are political freedom, freedom of speech, democracy. and that's something that should be done in cuba.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, ahmed mansoor is so many things: he’s a father of four, he’s a poet, he’s an emirati engineer, he’s a husband. this sounds like a rich and fulfilled life. but ahmed mansoor is also a prisoner. he’s serving a 10 year prison sentence because he was running an opposition blog, calling for human rights and political reform. and he’s by far not the only one in the united arab emirates who is behind bars because of his peaceful political engagement. and it is by far not the first time that we are discussing this issue here in parliament, that we call for the immediate and unconditional release of all those peaceful activists. but despite the many years of international calls for their release, the united arab emirates leadership has not moved an inch. even worse, since the arrest, the second arrest, of ahmed mansoor in march 2017, he has been in solitary confinement. his wife has only been allowed to visit him a few times. this is unacceptable. in early october, i will nevertheless be going to dubai to visit the expo. i will be speaking for the european parliament. i will be discussing the eu green deal, and how we can work together to stop the climate crisis. and as much as such an engagement and cooperation on the side of climate is necessary, we cannot and should never remain silent on the human rights issues. this is why, with the same visit, i have put in a request to visit ahmed mansoor and other political detainees in the uae prisons. as much as the expo 2020 is an opportunity for the government, the leadership of the united arab emirates, to present itself as an international host and actor, it should extend the same courtesy and hospitality to its own citizens, including those that dare to be critical.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am surprised by what i hear here about the united arab emirates, because in fact they are a model of development and also of tolerance in the islamic world. it starts with the abrahamite family's house in abu dhabi. it goes on to say that it is the only gulf country to take in afghan refugees on a large scale. but it also has something to do with the fact that the emirati model of success is now leading islamic youth to understand islam in a modern and 21st century way, and not to follow jihad anymore. and that we can cancel this success story, which is a very tolerant success story, unique in the islamic world, here, it amazes me. and it goes back to that very type of neo-colonialism that we believe we should be teaching the whole world from the top of the horse how to govern their own country. i believe the emiratis themselves know how to govern their country. and if there are questions that we have, and if there are points that we find unbearable, then you can ask and enter into a dialogue. you should stop lecturing the whole world. the time has come for europe to teach the world. and it's you in the middle who regularly think you have to attack our history because of colonialism. but you are operating a neo-colonialism that is no less than the old one. i took the trouble to ask the embassy what the situation really was. it's a little different, which is a miracle. and i think the right way to do that is to do that. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european union has also expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. you should return to diplomacy and stop being the world's law teacher.
author. madam president, today we are presenting a joint resolution which highlights the dire situation in the kakuma refugee camp in northern kenya. i would like to highlight some key points which show how complex the situation in kakuma is also. already, the planned closure of the camp, which was opened in 1992 as a temporary solution, is a huge challenge in itself. indeed, the camp today has a generation of children born and raised in this camp with a more or less dark future. the fact that this camp is located in an already disadvantaged area, affected by climate change, food insecurity and lack of access to basic services, water and health services makes the situation even more dire, especially for the refugee population. of course, the side effects of the pandemic as well as the low vaccination rate in kenya and more so among the refugee population are aggravating the situation. we certainly commend the work of the kenyan authorities in welcoming refugees from all walks of life. we appreciate that they have opened an investigation into the recent attacks on members of the lgbtqi community living within the camp. we encourage the inquiry and also the fact that our european delegations on the ground are supporting the government's efforts regarding the situation of marginalized and vulnerable groups within the refugee population, namely children who do not always enjoy a proper education, women victims of domestic and sexual violence and also members of the lgbtqi community who suffer attacks such as the one on 15 march. the situation of this community is particularly deplorable and the human rights of its members must be respected. at this point i would like to stress that when we ask the kenyan government to maintain the kakuma and dadaab refugee camps until the region is more stable and truly respects the human rights of the refugees. we are also thinking about the responsibility of the european union. supporting kenya in hosting refugees does not mean that the european union can escape its own responsibility to host and resettle a fair share of those in need of international protection. it seems obvious, but perhaps it should be remembered: if we are addressing a partner here, as we have always said, on an equal footing - and this we have not only said, but also repeated - in the context of our agreements and relations with africa, we must act, we must commit ourselves so that all refugees, especially lgbt people, are supported. our credibility could be endangered if we do not practice what we preach.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today we're going to talk about kakuma refugee camp. this is in northwestern kenya, in the border region with uganda, ethiopia and south sudan. this refugee camp has been in existence since 1992, and there are over 500 000 refugees in the region, of which 100 000 live in this refugee camp. of those, 300 are in the refugee camp, and in kenya, there are 1,000 people from the lgbtiq community, as we say here. and kenya is the only country in africa and the region that is offering asylum to these people. and i want to expressly join in the thanks already expressed here, because it is important that people who are persecuted because of their sexual orientation have a place where they can find refuge, where they can be granted asylum. so i thank the kenyan government for recognizing this as a reason for asylum and for taking in so many refugees. but on august 16 of this year, there was fire, gunfire, attacks on people of the same sexual orientation in this refugee camp. and we have to be clear here that the kenyan government, if they're going to accept these people into their country, they have to make sure that they can live in safety. and it is important that we, as the european union, do our utmost to ensure that human rights apply to everyone, to refugees, but also to people from minorities and to people who are homosexual. and that is why we as the european union should do everything and use all our resources to support these people and uphold human rights.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in kakuma refugee camp, kenya hosts some 200,000 migrants, mainly from ethiopia, somalia and also eritrea. this year, there were arson attacks against lesbian residents in the camp. now the sexual minorities are to be transferred to the eu if their situation does not improve. the house also welcomes the extension of eu asylum law to include climate migrants and pregnant women who have been denied an abortion in africa. do you even know what you're doing? africa's population will grow from 1.4 billion people now to over 2.5 billion people by 2050. if the eu grants even a tiny fraction of that, say 0.5 percent, asylum, it will ruin our social systems without improving the lot of people in africa in any way. but you still want to bring tens, if not hundreds of millions of people from africa to europe in the next few decades. in june, a 24-year-old somali who came to germany in 2015 as a so-called refugee killed three women and injured five others in würzburg, bavaria. in 2019, an eritrean threw an eight-year-old boy in front of an oncoming train in frankfurt. the kakuma refugee camp is located 8 500 km from the european parliament in strasbourg. before we debate the protection of african lesbians from somali and ethiopian migrants in kenya, shouldn't we first protect our own women and citizens from somali and ethiopian migrants as well? what do you have against europeans?
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the honourable member for montserrat deserves credit for having brought this important subject to the agenda today. thank you for that. there has also been a lot of good talk about the development and procurement and distribution of covid vaccines. but questions about the sometimes devastating effects of vaccination have been ignored. i would like to say something about that. did you know that more people have died this year from the effects of the covid-19 vaccine than from all other vaccines in the last 20 years? what about the countless other injuries, some of them serious? why do we hear so little about it? is there something being hidden? when the swine flu vaccine had negative results a few years ago, the vaccine was quickly withdrawn from the market. today, thousands of people, especially young people, are still suffering from the effects of vaccination. i know a young man who was vaccinated then and now suffers from narcolepsy. he's finished his training and would like to work. but because of the constant danger of falling asleep suddenly, he cannot get a driver's license, nor can he find a job. unfortunately, his illness is not recognized as a vaccine defect. the manufacturer of the vaccine was apparently exempted from liability for vaccine consequences. apparently, the same thing is happening again today. but despite the massive increase in vaccine damage, which we don't hear about, as i said, we hardly hear about, it's like there's no tomorrow, just keep vaccinating. why are vaccines not withdrawn from the market as they were with swine flu? and who is to blame for these increasingly obvious vaccine injuries? the commission, dear commissioner, must finally draw the line on these vaccines and stop this experiment on humans. i beg you, i beg you, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
the president, as stated by president ursula von der leyen in january, did not know when vaccines against covid-19 would be available, nor did she know when they would be developed. but thanks to research, collaboration and funding from the european union, the vaccine is now available in our country, and we have already had half of the vaccines we have produced in other parts of the world. of course, that ard-mholadh is wanted by the eu and by the commission. in ireland, over 90% of men have been vaccinated. it is very un-easy, even compared to the average european laws. according to the chair of the irish task force on covid-19 vaccination, the reason why rates are so high is not because of high-quality information, public health advice, or the public's respect for them. i'm not worried about the vaccine. i'm not sure i'd want to, but there's an important trade-off. the more people have clear information about the work done by the union on the laws and regulations, the more they will understand that they are not being treated as enemies. the more information they have about the outcome of the covid-19 clinical trial, the more they will need to make an informed decision. i know you can't get vaccines as easily as in other countries. however, is the commission aware that vaccines against measles in the member states are not up to date? and do you have any plans to end this? my thanks to my dear dolors for your hard work on the questions to be asked.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? in one country after another, restrictions are being eased. the number of infections in the eu is decreasing instead of increasing at this time last year. it is clear that the rapid vaccination of the eu has made a difference and that we are now moving towards brighter times. however, the pandemic is not over. new waves and mutations are just around the corner, and as long as we have different vaccination rates in the member states, vaccine resistance and unequal distribution of doses in the world, we have continued challenges. our way of life, out of balance with nature and without respect for animals, has also increased the risk of new pandemics and health crises. antibiotic resistance is already causing tens of thousands of deaths each year. so now is not the time to exhale, but rather to arm ourselves to avoid major new health crises. we therefore call for a european health union based on cooperation and solidarity rather than protectionism and introversion. the joint procurement of vaccines, for example, is a key ingredient in a future health union. we must ensure that the processes involved in the procurement procedure, where pre-sale contracts are concluded, are now carried out in an orderly manner and more openly than this spring. especially in times of crisis, we must safeguard our common eu funds and ensure that they are always used to save lives and not to save profits. we saw earlier this year that vaccine manufacturers like astrazeneca missed their scheduled deliveries by over 60 percent. that's sick! we also saw how the eu was therefore lagging behind in vaccination and missed the chance to reduce infection faster and save lives. we cannot naively rely on the producers to always deliver. instead, we need watertight agreements that can withstand public scrutiny. we need more transparency. we in the s&d group therefore call on the commission to be fully transparent in future pre-sale agreements and to impose clear transparency requirements on its suppliers. when authoritarian states cover up everything from the origin of the infection to the actual death toll, the eu must respond with transparency. a free, democratic and open society depends entirely on transparency. without transparency, we cannot expect trust. it is precisely trust that is the greatest asset of the welfare state. it is trust in each other and in science that has led the eu to surpass the united states in vaccination rates. trust is the key to getting out of this pandemic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu has failed in the covid crisis, not succeeded. we had the biggest economic downturn in the world because we were sloppy at first and then the lockdown policy was even tougher. east asia was able to do without a full-scale lockdown. despite tougher measures, the eu has the highest death toll, along with the uk and the us. so, despite higher costs, less was achieved. and as inefficient as the eu has been, it is as opaque. the disclosure of the contracts was heavily smeared. it is unclear, for example, why sanofi, which cannot deliver, got a contract and money from leyen. it is also unclear why prophylactics such as ivermectin disappeared as soon as the crisis began. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. we know that vaccinated people still get covid, maybe less often and usually less severely. on the other hand, the extent of short-term side effects is not fully understood, and the long-term effects remain completely uncertain. it's not disputed that those who are vaccinated continue to infect others. the restrictions on freedom in the crisis, bans on assembly, curfews and now in many countries discrimination against the unvaccinated, as well as shopping bans for the untested and work bans under mario draghi, are all evident. if the eu has achieved anything in the covid crisis, it is that people are no longer vaccinated for medical reasons, but to regain their rights in the first place. what a success! and yet you never tire of talking about the rule of law.
mr president, the fact that the contracts on which this debate is based are not subject to scrutiny is only part of the problem. it was the vast public funds that paid for the research, the production, the early purchase of vaccines. multinational corporations have taken ownership and are blocking the fastest progress of vaccination in the name of profit. they are counting on the european union's uncompromising opposition to the withdrawal of patents to defend their interests. they want to standardise the procurement process in a so-called public procurement procedure which binds the states unacceptably to the european union's options, preventing them from diversifying beyond this procedure to the procurement of solutions which best serve their needs. there's a glimpse of the healthcare market they want to promote. the current situation requires the diversification of vaccine procurement, the creation of vaccine production capacities in each country and the suspension of patents as a way of ensuring the fastest and widest vaccination. vaccines are a public good that should be in the service of humanity.
mr. chairman, commissioner, i don't want to interrupt your hooking up, but let me say something important here. in addition to the reasons already mentioned by colleagues here why the contracts and the whole process of further negotiating contracts that guarantee vaccine substances for europe should be transparent, there is also the fact that at a time when the whole process has not been very transparent and the public has not had clear information, political forces that criticize the european union, criticize the european integration process, have often used disinformation to criticize the activities of the european commission and the european union and have stated that the european union has failed in the provision of vaccines. despite the many mistakes, i don't think it's the case that the process is successful. it's been said here many times, 70% vaccination of the public is a success, although the result varies from country to country. but i beg you, if we don't want to reinforce fake news, if we don't want the political forces that are against european integration, that don't want europe to work together on the basis of common european values, that these forces have the fuel to attack the whole vaccination process and the european commission's work here in this area, then i beg you, the only possible way is transparency. that all the information is made public, and it's so clear that the european commission has negotiated the best possible terms in a timely manner, that the distributors and manufacturers of vaccines are doing everything possible to develop the best possible quality vaccines with public money, and that there really is no room for the idea that the european commission has failed and that vaccines may be harmful to human health. this is having a significant impact on the atmosphere in the czech republic, for example, where 40% of the population has not yet been vaccinated. and if we were more transparent, i think the number of people who don't want to be vaccinated would be lower.
mr president, i am very pleased to be addressing this subject today because i feel that it really touches on the idea of why we have a european union and therefore the democratic legitimacy of our union. the experience of covid-19 has opened our eyes to a number of things and has shown us where the european union is strongest and where we also have some weaknesses. first of all, we need to recognise that we should not only look at the final results of our work but that what we are doing reaches people. i ask you: was there sufficient access to information against the greatest fears and concerns? to achieve the goal of our work, citizens must have full confidence in the process so i believe that the pandemic should serve the european institutions as a lesson for the future. the road ahead after these two years is clear: i agree with president von der leyen's speech yesterday that now is the time for a european health union and i believe it should include the buying of medicines together as one european union as we did with the covid-19 vaccines. but to do so requires greater confidence in the process, we must be convinced that unfortunately the process we have been through has been clouded by doubts, fears and even questions that have often not been addressed. questions, for example, about whether or not health has been prioritised on the profit agenda of the big pharmaceutical companies. everyone has the right to know how their tax money has been spent. with timely access to information we can overcome the reality that a number of european countries are still among the most vaccine-sceptic citizens in the world. we also need to address the lack of trust in health authorities in a number of countries and this can only be done by having transparent systems. therefore, we need to see more information on regular vaccination and addressing vaccine hesitancy in our strategy. we need to cooperate more in health to ensure that everyone has access to medicines and that they are affordable for everyone. it is therefore crucial for the commission to build on what we are recommending by carrying out and publishing a study on the process we have had for covid-19 vaccines. specifically, it needs to assess the transparency in the process and i suggest the commission to build on the success stories we have seen in some european union countries such as malta, in countries, where i come from, with the highest vaccination rate in the world with over 91 per cent of eligible citizens over the age of 12 being vaccinated thanks to the continuous transparency and engagement with citizens throughout the process. let us also make sure that we have a europe that is transparent in all respects.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs. johansson, you've been knitting here all this time. is this debate as irrelevant and boring to you as you say it is? well, you also knitted during your boss's state of the union address yesterday. i didn't like your boss's speeches either, but out of respect for this house, i would have done anything but knitting here. mrs johansson, you said 'i wrote it down' 'the commission fully recognises the importance of full transparency. then stop knitting and do something! why don't you see to it that the contracts are finally published, in their entirety. and then there are the minutes which explain why mrs von der leyen here actually refused to submit a tender. should sanofi, which has not yet supplied an effective active substance, be given preference? you said earlier, i wrote it down: the safety of the european people is our top priority. is it safety, or were they more french economic interests? you know, mrs johansson, this parliament is used to a lot of things from the commissioners. but what you are showing here in disinterest, lack of transparency and disregard for parliament, i must say, is something special. and you're a very special bird, too.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this important debate. i must say that i appreciate the strong argument that you present here for transparency. covid—19 continues to have an impact on our societies, our economies and our way of life. however, safe, effective, affordable and universally accessible vaccines are a crucial tool that will help us to end this pandemic. in the early stages of the pandemic, we had to quickly organise a new process with eu member states. it had to be as inclusive and effective as possible, and one that fully guaranteed accountability and compliance with the applicable rules in order to protect our collective interest in securing quick access to vaccines for all with the best possible conditions. through the eu vaccine strategy, and thanks to our collaboration with you and key stakeholders, we are providing our citizens with a sustainable solution to covid—19. however, throughout this process, we must respect the contractual obligations and applicable rules that limit the disclosure of some information. however, while we do that, we are listening to your concerns and the concerns of the citizens that you are representing, communicating openly and building dialogue so that we can create and maintain trust. as almost all of you have mentioned here, trust is key when it comes to vaccines. after all, vaccines do not save lives. vaccination does.
the debate is closed. the vote on this dossier will take place in october. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has struck with a vengeance, destabilizing our economy, education and healthcare. almost immediately, a race against time began for scientists, drug and vaccine manufacturers, and government officials. the rapid response of the european commission, the funding of vaccine research and the negotiations with vaccine manufacturers have allowed the intensive vaccination campaign to take place. there's no doubt that the joint vaccine purchase is a huge success. we are stronger together. however, citizens are concerned about the lack of transparency in the purchase and distribution of vaccines. citizens have a right to greater transparency in the spending of public funds, especially in the context of a topic as important as public health. transparency allows for better public scrutiny, but also increases citizens' trust in institutions. the lack of information in the public sphere is causing citizens to lose that trust, not just in the union, but in vaccines in general, and we cannot afford that. moreover, we should analyze our mistakes and learn from them. the sudden interruption in vaccine supply caused enormous organisational difficulties and made it impossible to meet the vaccination schedule. the covid-19 pandemic is still going on, and new contracts are being signed with pharmaceutical companies all the time. every effort should be made to avoid such situations in the future and this should be taken into account when concluding contracts.
the minutes of the 13-16 september part-session will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 16 september 2021.
the minutes and the texts adopted at the sittings of 13, 14, 15 and 16 september 2021 are available. can i ask whether there are any comments at this stage? i see that there are not, so this means that the minutes are approved.
a few announcements from our end. the competent authority in germany has informed the president of the decision taken by the attorney general of düsseldorf in the context of a criminal investigation against mr gunnar beck, following the lifting of his immunity in accordance with the european parliament’s decision of 17 june 2020, and this is point 20 of the minutes of that date.
the competent committees have transmitted two corrigenda to texts adopted by parliament pursuant to rule 241(4). these corrigenda will be deemed approved unless, no longer than 24 hours after their announcement, a request is made by a political group or a number of members reaching at least the low threshold that they be put to that vote. the corrigenda are available on the plenary webpage. their titles will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
the itre committee has decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the report, which constitutes the mandate for the negotiations, is available on the plenary webpage, and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members of political groups reaching at least the minimum threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday, 5 october at midnight, that the decision to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no requests for a vote in parliament on the decision to enter into negotiations are made within the aforementioned deadline, the committee may start the negotiations.
i would also like to inform this house that since the adjournment of the parliament session on 16 september, the president, together with the president of the council, has signed one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. i would also like to inform you that, together with the president of the council, the president shall on wednesday sign three acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the revised final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents by written procedure today on 4 october 2021, pursuant to rule 157, is available. furthermore, following consultations with the political groups, we wish to report to the house the following proposal for changes to the revised final draft agenda. the debate on the commission statement on the increased efforts to fight money laundering is postponed to the october ii part-session, and therefore as a consequence the 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. debate slot on thursday is cancelled. finally, i would like to inform you that the votes will be distributed across different voting sessions taking into account the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for split and separate votes. please note that this distribution could still be subject to changes. the relevant information concerning the distribution of votes is available on the website of the european parliament under the section ‘priority information’. with this, the agenda is therefore deemed adopted and the order of business is thus established. i would, however, now also like to inform the house that i have received two requests for a point of order and i will give the floor to the following colleagues in the order received by the president. first, mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, and then mr gabriel mato.
madam president, for more than two weeks now a volcano has been erupting on la palma: more than 80 million cubic metres of fire, lava and sulphur. it is happening in the canary islands, an outermost region of the european union, as european as brussels or strasbourg. and the citizens concerned are full-fledged european citizens, and this parliament represents them. they are entitled to our full solidarity and to the help of the copernicus satellite network, which monitors the eruption seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day, and of the union civil protection mechanism, but also of the european union solidarity fund, which has a budget of 500 million euros. the threshold for access to this 500 million euro is well above the 1% of gdp in damages required in one outermost region: the canary islands. but the advance of up to 10% requires the approval of this european parliament. and when it comes to repairing the damage, solidarity must be effective and immediate. the european parliament must approve this advance from the solidarity fund, because the consistency and strength of the union is measured by how it responds in its smallest, most remote, most vulnerable link. the strength of the european union is demonstrated in our solidarity with la palma.
thank you mr lópez aguilar. i now give the floor to mr gabriel mato.
madam president, the volcano that erupted on my island of la palma 15 days ago is destroying houses, roads, water infrastructure and crops, but above all illusions. it's leaving a trail of pain, of broken personal stories, of thousands of evacuees. it's changing the island's own orography, which will never again be heart-shaped. a heart that has been showcased by palm trees and that has won the solidarity of so many people. in the face of this, we have to react because the worst is still to come: rebuilding; re-creating a home; continuing to grow the best bananas in the world; trying to live again leaving this nightmare as a sad reminder of the force of nature. that is why we urgently need the help of the european union. we need to get la palma funding that will allow the palm trees to smile again. and i'm sure it will, and you know why? because together we are much stronger than the volcano.
thank you very much, mr mato. with that we have concluded the short discussion on the situation on the island of la palma which, as our colleagues have said, is indeed very difficult and challenging.
the next item is the report by michèle rivasi, on behalf of the committee on development, on the role of development policy in the response to biodiversity loss in developing countries, in the context of the achievement of the 2030 agenda (2020/2274(ini)) (a9-0258/2021).
i'm the reporter. madam president, this is an important and very timely report, since you know that in a few days, from 11 to 15 october, there is the cop 15 in kunming, china. this meeting, which will initially be virtual, will be the conference of the parties, cop 15, to the united nations convention on biological diversity. this is very important, because this report gives guidance on how to increase biodiversity in developing countries. there was a report at the environment, public health and food safety committee level, which aims to assess consistency with the 2030 agenda. this report is a tribute to all those who have left, those who have been killed, those who continue to be persecuted in defence of their territory, victims of violence against indigenous peoples and the expropriation of their land: this is not yet part of the past, but it is still happening. the commodification of nature and land, the pressure of extractive and agricultural industries, and the perception of a pristine nature free from human activity continue to fuel the dispossession of land and resources. the european union must acknowledge its responsibility for the worsening of land grabbing and forest destruction; but it must not fall into the trap of imposing colonial conservation practices on forest-rich countries. the history of nature conservation is a history of expropriation and violation of human rights. remember, the first modern protected area was yellowstone national park in the united states, which was created in 1872 by expelling the native americans who lived there and depended on its resources for their survival. in africa, the creation of protected areas took root during colonization, particularly to organize hunting reserves, and this led to various conflicts. there is good news, though. look at what happened in australia a few days ago: the australian government gave away land to aboriginal people, including more than 160,000 hectares given back to aboriginal people, including the kuku yalanji people, in the oldest primary forest in the world. so all is not lost, especially on the part of the australians. many protected areas have led to partial or complete displacement, without compensation, of indigenous peoples and local communities. at the same time, industrial concessions for logging, mining or palm oil are allowed within nature reserves, look for the error. these peoples still represent about 5% of the world's population, but manage at least 25% of the earth's land surface, where almost 80% of biodiversity is concentrated. these peoples therefore have a special relationship with their environment. international laws and treaties protect their rights, including the convention no. 169 on indigenous and tribal peoples and the united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples, which clearly states that indigenous peoples cannot be expelled from their lands without their free, prior and informed consent. there is one area to be careful about, and this is in the report, namely the so-called nature-based solutions; we have done the carbon market, we should not also do the biodiversity market, because problems may arise with the so-called compensations: we see many oil companies, such as shell or total, which can continue to pollute, provided they compensate for their co2 pollution. by taking land in the global south and planting crops, they can then say they have a carbon neutral balance. so it is a real risk: the destruction of our environment should not be compensated for at the expense of indigenous peoples and local communities. the second aspect is the coherence between our development policies and the conservation of resources. there is also the problem of everything related to agriculture and in particular the problem of gmo technology. i'm not talking about europe, i'm talking about africa. is it worth developing these technologies, when it is better to defend local seeds that can be passed from one community to another? we must also consider the problem of genetic coercion, which must not be allowed. i am very glad that you are here, mrs urpilainen, because we really must ban the export of pesticides to these countries, since they are banned in europe. so there is a whole range of extraordinary possibilities in this report and i ask you to vote for it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank the european parliament, the committee on development, and in particular the rapporteur, michèle rivasi, for putting this essential topic on today’s agenda. the report is clear: we have to act now if we want to have a future for our children. we need to reverse biodiversity loss and we need to promote sustainable livelihoods in our partner countries, yes, but also in europe. in short, we need to protect life across the entire planet. if there is one silver lining of the covid-19 pandemic, it is the increasing awareness of the links that connect the health of human beings, animals and of our planet. one million species on the planet are currently at risk of extinction. important ecosystems, which we depend on, face serious threats. biodiversity is crucial to safeguard global food security and food systems. this is a global problem, and it requires a global solution. this is why the president of the commission, as part of the implementation of the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy for 2030, committed on 15 september to increase support to eu partner countries. i am pleased to confirm that we will double our external funding for biodiversity. we will double our external funding for biodiversity. the eu will tackle the climate and biodiversity crisis. ahead of the upcoming climate and biodiversity conferences, we will continue working with partners. the world needs to adopt an ambitious global biodiversity framework. the report emphasises the importance of coherence between policies to ensure development and conservation go hand in hand. for example, agriculture and food systems must be part of the solution. through our desira initiative, we are working to mobilise research in eu partner countries, identifying and employing sustainable practices based on agri- ecology and climate-smart agriculture. in line with the just transition proposed by the green deal and as part of our human rights-based approach to development, we also ensure that eu action on biodiversity promotes gender equality and recognises and applies human rights. the full participation of indigenous people and local communities is therefore paramount in the engagement. as an example, nature africa supports biodiversity conservation while ensuring human rights. it fosters job creation, improved security and sustainable livelihoods. let me take the opportunity to reaffirm my commitment to continue to engage with you and with all relevant actors, especially civil society organisations, to make sure that we deliver a coherent response to support our partner countries. i really look forward to the discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. biodiversity is an indispensable foundation for human life and sustainable climate protection worldwide. it is the diversity of all living organisms, habitats and ecosystems on land, in the air, in freshwater and in the oceans. it plays a central role in agriculture and food security. conservation is not possible without agriculture and vice versa. agriculture cannot exist without nature. biodiversity directly regulates oxygen production, climate and soil formation, promotes nutrient cycles and insect protection, and also has a positive effect on pest control. in bavaria in particular, we have been working successfully with various agro-environmental and nature conservation programmes for decades. and so it benefits man, animal and the environment. it is for us in europe and for the world: the protection of biodiversity requires global action and global solutions. the developing countries, whose budgets for environmental protection are often very small, need our support. i thank you, mrs rivasi, for your comments. there are a variety of strategies in europe and worldwide, all aimed at halting the increasing loss of biodiversity. the biodiversity strategy sets an ambitious target of ensuring that by 2050 at the latest, all ecosystems are healthy, resilient and rich in biodiversity. there is also a strong international commitment to further this objective at the forthcoming conference of the parties on biological diversity, cop 15, in kunming, china. so there is no lack of clear objectives. only the links between biodiversity loss, its causes and how to combat it are complex. individual consumer choices and consumption patterns also play an important role. we therefore need to secure funding on the basis of sound scientific economic impact assessments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. artificial intelligence innovation is a truly incredible pool of progress. it can also relieve the police and the judiciary and significantly improve the quality of their work. however, the use of ai in law enforcement often needs the label 'high risk for civil rights'. and some things are to be avoided altogether. mass surveillance using automatic facial recognition software in public spaces is a no-go. that is why it is so important that parliament's proposal takes a clear position in favour of civil rights and against facial recognition. human and civil rights are non-negotiable, especially when it comes to the use of new technologies by government agencies. and i am not at all surprised that it is again the conservative colleagues of the epp who are pushing for biometric surveillance. with your amendments you are repeatedly raising the question of the protection of our fundamental rights. this vote also sends a signal to the proposed law on artificial intelligence, which highlights the importance which the european parliament attaches to our citizens' rights in the digital future. and i will tell you this: i will fight every day to ensure that ai law strengthens our fundamental rights in the eu, not undermines them.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not this report is another example of how the eu pretends to tackle an important issue superficially, but it is only superficial. it is about measures to combat domestic violence against women. what was intended as a political, correct and important signal against domestic violence turns out once again to be just a poster for another fantastic commercial of a whole potpourri of ideological nonsense. the fact that the eu is not even afraid to use the alleged fight against domestic violence to curtail the sovereignty of the member states is hardly worth the excitement. but the use of violence against women to implement ideological absurdities can only be seen by victims of domestic violence as the very slap in the face that the european parliament claims to want to prevent. so it needs more sex education, and for it to work properly, it's best to start at three years old. the consequences of degrading shame-bound violations of children are accepted as collateral damage to be tolerated. the so-called hate speech, which is becoming increasingly popular as a general-purpose weapon in the fight against unfavourable political opinions, must also be suppressed, of course, in the form of constitutionally guaranteed freedom of expression, in line with the motto: we already guarantee freedom of speech, but not freedom after speech. furthermore, it is not enough to highlight many facts relevant in the context of partner violence for the sake of cultural sensitivity. it is a consequence of the disastrous migration policy, with almost 70% of the women in women's shelters having a migrant background. in germany, there are now two cases of gang rape every day. the physical abuse of women is so massive that in addition to the psychological wounds, they are often marked for life. and the perpetrators, ladies and gentlemen, are usually the ones who haven't lived here that long. it could be that simple. the most brutal violence against women in europe could be prevented. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the peoples of the world are respected and that the rights of the peoples of the world are respected. but the eu is not going to do that. no, this most effective protection of women must be secondary to the tolerant arrogance of the world-changers gathered here. but, dear abandoned, helpless women, exposed to this imported violence, please do not despair. the european parliament will certainly continue to explain to you in celebrated speeches of concern next year how it does not intend to protect you.
mr president relationship abuse is not a private matter. as a christian, i find it unacceptable and condemn all forms of domestic violence. the provisions of the authorities concerning parental responsibility should be based on the best interests of the child, excluding the possibility of the child being a victim of abuse within any family. however, this report is ideologically motivated and violates national sovereignty. once again, we are faced with a stealthy expansion of the powers of the eu institutions. each member state has the right to make its own rules on the protection of victims of intimate partner violence. the hungarian government stands with the victims of domestic violence. he's been developing his prevention and victim support system for the last ten years. the istanbul convention is not a miracle drug, in many cases it sets rules that are weaker than the legal instruments already in place in hungary and the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as the shadow rapporteur for the legal affairs committee, i consider this own-initiative report to be particularly important for two reasons: firstly, because the number of women, but also men, who have been victims of physical and psychological violence within the partnership, especially during the pandemic, has increased dramatically. behind the figures are devastating individual fates with significant long-term damage to those affected. we call on the member states to maintain access to justice, advice and support facilities even in such times and, of course, to provide financial support accordingly. secondly, violence in relationships affects children in particular. they are the silent victims and the most vulnerable. and that is why child-friendly justice throughout europe should not be the exception, but the rule. investigative and judicial authorities need to be trained to handle these sensitive cases correctly. the best interests of the child should always come first. furthermore, domestic violence, separation and custody proceedings must not be treated in isolation from each other but must be dealt with in conjunction. i would like the member states to take up these aspects as soon as possible so that the victims of domestic violence, whether they are adults or children, can escape from their perpetrators as soon as possible and can finally live a life free of violence.
mr president, gender violence has dramatically increased as the lockdown measures have been lifted. so has the level of stupidity, dehumanisation and instrumentalisation that we heard from the right-wing parties here today, from the afd and from fidesz. in many countries like spain and germany, the number of fatal incidents has risen. one in two women in the eu have experienced sexual violence. what is your response to that? well, our response to that is the huge achievement of this parliament that we all agreed in this report to emphasise the role of the istanbul convention, the convention that all member states should sign and enforce. it is an important step forward that we all – except for you – agreed that access to justice and access to safety for victims and their children must be secured, regardless of economic and financial burdens. we must uphold the conclusions of this report that ‘parental alienation syndrome’ should never serve as an obstacle to such justice. and yes, we, my group and myself as rapporteur in the committee on legal affairs, we continue to insist that same-sex partnerships should be treated equally in cross-border cases. we are living in difficult times. let’s not forget about those who become victims of their domestic and intimate partners. those attacks are not just everyday trivialities. don’t trivialise them. those are grave crimes. it’s time that we in the eu recognise them as such.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not think that anyone in this house is seriously opposed to the protection of women and children. however, when i hear that the liberals are already calling for special courts, and i read words like 'patriarchy' or 'femicide' which will not stand up in any constitutional court in the world, i have to say that this resolution has a sound basis, but its implementation is weak. and there is another reason why i am against this resolution: it shows that unfortunately many people in this chamber have little idea of the subject. i worked as a prosecutor for a long time in my own training, and many women came to me, but also partners from homosexual relationships. they had been severely beaten, their noses had been broken, their teeth had been knocked out, their arms had been broken, their fingers had been broken. all of these were the result of domestic violence. and my attorney at the time, when i was trying to get to work, sort of indignantly, she would say, "take your time, it's not going to go to trial anyway". and unfortunately, in almost all cases, that's what happened. every time it came to trial, the main witness or the main witness fell over because she wouldn't testify against her former partner. the partner had somehow come to the hospital with flowers the day before the trial, and that's when the trial broke down because the key witness wouldn't testify. unfortunately, this was the conclusion: people fear violence less than loneliness, and therefore a new law will not change much here, as sad and as desolate as it is. but the legal protection of women and children is well regulated in most countries and a european regulation will do little to improve it.
mr. speaker, during the covid-19 pandemic, we have seen an increase in domestic violence cases. within the european union, women and children, disproportionately affected by this scourge, do not enjoy equal protection. children who witness such domestic violence suffer the devastating effects and serious repercussions on their behaviour, psychological state and future life. it is important to introduce an intersectional perspective so that all women in the european union feel protected in cases of domestic violence. this includes, for example, ensuring that women from different cultural backgrounds can benefit from sound advice and support free of discrimination and prejudice. in separation and custody agreements, the best interests of the child must be ensured. it is also necessary to take into account the violence of the partner, in order to avoid cases of femicide and sometimes also of infanticide. the member states of the european union should all ratify the istanbul convention. but a very important point is that child protection is a human right and that every child has the right to grow up in an environment where violence is outlawed.
in writing. violence against women is not acceptable. so simple, so clear, so right. they speak of 'heteropatriarchal structures', of 'power-symmetries' and of 'structural and institutional inequalities'. it's a gift. as long as you are ensuring or trying to ensure that women and girls are not beaten or otherwise harmed, you are free to express yourself however you wish. what is not ok is that you are using the crime of 'violence against women' to change the eu treaties. you are really using every loophole to build your eu bureaucracy monster, to dismantle the nation states and to create your eudssr frankenstein. let me tell you something, as a normal, straight, white man who would never think to look at a woman even in a bad way: if you really care about women and you want them to be well, you are not helping them by unifying family and criminal law across the eu and introducing the concept of gender-based violence, but you are helping them by ensuring that millions of young, single men from violent cultures are not imported and then allowed to stay with us permanently and walk around freely after they have repeatedly become criminals and have committed crimes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on wednesday we will vote on the report of the peti committee on the protection of people with disabilities through petitions title: lessons learned. lessons learned? - really ? i'm not going to. otherwise my colleague stelios kympouropoulos would not be sitting up there while we are speaking on this podium. the hall is still not wheelchair accessible, and the podium is still not accessible to all people. and that's not a shame, that's a disgrace to this high house! that's just the beginning. when i followed the empl committee's opinion on the peti committee report - thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen - i was shocked to read how much is still at stake and what has not been done. the most frequent concerns of the petitioners are access to information and the environment. only a week before the annual state of the nation address by mrs ursula von der leyen in the european parliament, i was informed that there was no sign language interpretation. i went straight to the translation service and asked for an interpreter. nothing came back there either. president sassoli thank you very much for your initiative has been working on this, unfortunately without success. when this annual state of the union address was being prepared, no request was made for interpretation into international sign language. i say, why not? why were 23 other languages automatically applied for but not international sign language? the state of the union address is a means of informing people living in the eu of the state of affairs and plans. should people with hearing impairments not be informed and participate in political processes? i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in the house, in the commission and in the council, to stop hiding behind these strategies, positions and political half-measures. an inclusive european society must be a matter of course and not a formality. the presentation of female athletes in the european parliament may be goodwill, but it is not inclusion, it is a drop in the bucket.
mr president and high representative, when joe biden took over, he sent a clear message to the world: america is back. and in many ways it is true that the us is indeed back. it reaffirmed its support for nato, it rejoined the world health organization, the paris agreement, and will re-engage with the un human rights council. this is not only about trade and about defence. i would like to focus on something more general: on human rights, shared democratic values, combating the rise of authoritarianism and fighting racism, hate speech and discrimination – topics which are covered in our report in paragraphs 24 to 231. because yes, the us is back. it has returned to multilateralism, but it is also pursuing its own interests beyond the transatlantic alliance. therefore, the way to take is not back to the supposedly good old pre-trump days. we have to define concrete pathways of mutual interest, and first and foremost, this common and shared interest lies in a rules-based international order. we saw president biden take a clear position on the attempts when the uk wanted to violate the binding northern ireland protocol; we saw him take a clear stance on the recent crackdown on independent media in poland. this shows that we do have a common ground. we as europeans should use this momentum and offer the us a global alliance for democracy and the rule of law. with whom else should we do this? with china, with russia? what we need is to work together as americans and europeans for making the law rule.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the eu-us relationship is contradictory: on the one hand, it is driven by a brutal competition for economic supremacy, and on the other by an incredible pragmatism to assert each other's own interests - even jointly and militarily. and that is exactly what we see in the indo-pacific strategy of nato, the us and the eu. the internal contradictions between the us and the eu are not overcome, nor are the trade wars. but there is a consensus that you want to push back on china's economic dominance and you want to secure your own dominance. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about mr assange. it is incredible to me to see it again and again, and it is unacceptable to see you talking about human rights again and again, but not about the assange case. the case of assange makes it clear that you and the us have an instrumental relationship with human rights.
mr president, the united states is one of the eu’s closest partners and our transatlantic partnership is founded on shared values, such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and now we share the fight against climate change. we have to cut emissions, we have to decarbonise and reach climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. we have to green our industries to achieve that. in the eu, we have the just transition mechanism and, in the us, the build back better plan. let’s create a transatlantic alliance for climate neutrality. let’s build a transatlantic trading zone for climate neutrality. we also need an eu—us strategic partnership on raw materials that could expand the green approaches on alternatives to mining and allow both sides to exchange know-how and best practices on green technologies in creating resistant secondary raw materials markets. that is key to achieving the transition to climate-neutral and digitalised economies. let’s create a transatlantic parliamentary working group to implement the green deal. there are so many options to save the planet together, and let’s do that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this report establishes a world order or calls for it that is built on the united states, with the eu in tow, building a world order based on fighting racism, standing up for lgbtq rights, and with the most important goal of climate action. this is a left-liberal, western agenda which we, as those sitting to the right of the president, will of course not share. but it's also a surprising amount of denial of reality. the world we are growing into and the world we want to shape is no longer just the western world, but is shaped by a multitude of actors with their own traditions and agendas. and it is our job to strike a diplomatic balance here, rather than engage in some kind of culture war just to secure the power of the west. the fact that the political right is now the one that is interested in ensuring that we have peace with those parts of the world that have different traditions is a joke. it's about learning that our values are not universal, that we have to listen, and that we can find the best way for this planet by balancing, by negotiating, and by not thinking that we are the sole owners of the truth. that is why i find this report appalling, because it is full of ideology. even trade policy is being ideologised and is being combined with abortion and gender issues. it doesn't belong there. for this reason, i would like to see our relations with the united states, which are very important, based on real interests and, above all, on the interests of independence, sovereignty and identity. unfortunately, we have here a purely ideological report which seeks to ideologise foreign and trade relations rather than make them fit for a world in which there are just several poles which are not western, which we should recognize.
mr president, big tech companies have grown into such powerful giants that they are increasingly threatening our entire democracy. yesterday, with facebook, instagram and whatsapp down, we experienced how dependent our online communication is on mark zuckerberg. tech monopolies are detrimental to fair competition. platforms like amazon and google are exploiting data from competitors to sell their own products at unfair prices. this is not a conflict of the eu against the us, it’s about a small, rich tech élite who wants to control our economies and societies. structural problems require structural solutions. we have to break up big tech. both in the us and in the eu, civil society and members of parliament are raising their voices. i call on our us colleagues to join this fight alongside the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am a transatlanticist and i believe in the power of free trade. but since the failure of ttip, our trade relationship has been in a difficult situation. the resolution of the airbus-boeing fines is a start. but the fact that the protectionist us tariffs on steel and aluminium are still in place is an unfortunate fact. the eu is not a national security risk to the us, and that needs to be made very clear! it's so good to finally see cooperation like the trade and technology council. because looking at the autocracies of the world, it's important that they are the democracies that are setting the framework for our digital future. because trade is becoming more and more foreign policy. we must not forget that trade is primarily about bringing people together to promote prosperity and participation. the transatlantic friendship must be turned back into a commercial friendship. we can no longer be satisfied with piecemeal work. we must return to a free trade agreement.
mr president, after the dark years of trump in the white house, the new democratic administration of joe biden represents a new hope for multilateralism and for the relaunch of the transatlantic relationship. it is true that some have come here to say that nothing essential has changed, but to do so we must ignore the positive signs: the summit between the european union and the united states, during the portuguese presidency, with the clear reaffirmation of the transatlantic partnership and the commitments to nato, which is not - for them or for us - incompatible with the enhancement of the indo-pacific, the return of the united states to the paris agreement and the suspension of the trade war over the boeing and airbus disputes, it's not a small thing. but it is true that there were also contradictory signs: the lack of coordination with the allies on the withdrawal from afghanistan and this strange selective agreement with the uk and australia on security in the indo-pacific and arms deals. the important thing now is to take concrete steps to rebuild lost trust. to end the steel and aluminium tariffs once and for all. to build on the recent initiative of a transatlantic cooperation forum on trade and technology to jointly lead the challenges of the digital transition, and to work also jointly to combat forced labour and child labour in trade agreements, and to pave the way for the relaunch of negotiations on a major trade agreement between the european union and the united states. this must be the ambition of our agenda with the united states of america.
mr president, the way in which the french authorities have been misled in the submarine contract says a lot about the naivete of france and europe towards the united states. after giving america many lessons during the admittedly turbulent presidency of donald trump, we thought joe biden would break with his predecessor's america first and become the world's policeman and our friend in all circumstances. yes, the united states is our ally and will remain so. but an american president thinks first of all of his people, of his soldiers on the front lines, of his families who want them home, and of his business and financial interests. who can blame him? i call on the european union to wake up and to abandon its wait and see attitude. we have no choice but to design and implement a genuine strategic independence, whether it be military, commercial or diplomatic. europe first, this should be obvious, but unfortunately it has become a struggle, as well as an emergency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this debate is already making you a little desperate. we are discussing the european union's relations with the united states of america against the background of emerging powers such as china, which want to influence our norms and our value system. a systemic rival has emerged. the united states is back on the world stage, but the europeans are not. this debate today is a clear example of this. we're not attractive partners. i am also asking myself a bit about this resolution: what should we take away from it as partners? it's a collection of everything. we are raising the bar, wanting to see the same standards that we europeans have in climate protection, in socio-political issues, also seen by others, especially the united states. but i wonder why the clear message is not being sent from today: we want to renew a trade and defence agreement and a trade and defence agreement with the americans! why don't we just say it? i don't understand it either. the left and the green side of this building sets the bar so high that i sometimes wonder: the chinese are a billion, we're not even half. do you really believe that we can preserve our liberal democracy, our values, as europe alone? we need a trade agreement with the americans. why don't you confess to that today?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, just a couple of years ago, we thought we were living in the age of authoritarians. now we know better. we live in the age of heroes. the belarusians, the russians and the turks have proved to us that heroes are amongst us, the heroes of our times. but calling them heroes alone will not help them much. it will not save their lives and will not bring them back their freedom. the european union has made strategic mistakes during this hero journey. too timid, too slow, too late and too weak. those were our responses. too little europe on the side of belarusians and, frankly, too many belarusians that told us not to be on their side at the beginning of this process. it is time to correct the past mistakes. we must use comprehensive sanctions, close the loopholes for exporters to the eu and stop financing the regime by international organisations. we must start legal proceedings against lukashenko himself and indict him for the torture of his own citizens. the evidence is there. it’s evident. last but not least, the european external services must start centralising and coordinating the national policies vis-à-vis belarus. just like in the case of climate, our ability to act internationally will decide whether the eu will survive or implode in the coming years. our policy vis-à-vis belarus is a case in point.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the reality is that the number of refugees arriving in brandenburg via poland is increasing daily and the reception camp in eisenhüttenstadt is also overloaded. the regime is organising flights from iraq to belarus to escalate this hybrid war against the european union. it uses migrants as a weapon against the european union. unfortunately, migrants have also died in the process. our commissioner is absolutely right when she is now helping poland, for example, to protect europe's external borders. but it is also clear that we must help the people who are now fleeing and not leave them there alone to their fate, once they have fallen for this regime. but it is equally clear that we must make it clear to the lukashenko regime that we are not sitting idly by. i therefore very much welcome the commission's decision to suspend the visa agreement with the lukashenka regime for officials. i hope very much, commissioner, that you will get a majority in the council to agree to the introduction of further sanctions.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to continue to express our disgust at the lukashenko regime. the people of belarus are hungry for freedom, democracy and justice, but are left behind by torture, censorship and dictatorship. they deserve our help. it is therefore crucial that we as europe continue to support all democratic forces in belarus to force free and fair elections. it is good that the various sanctions packages have been activated, but it is not enough. any individual guilty of repression must be dealt with, and lukashenko and his accomplices must also be held internationally accountable for their crimes against humanity. we also need to respond strongly to lukashenko's hybrid warfare against the eu by using vulnerable migrants as political pawns in state-sponsored human trafficking. unseen and unacceptable, with deadly consequences. and we have to act against it, because if we don't, in the long run, it will only put more people at risk. we must defend our borders and our values.
i am not going to go into detail. the first round of voting is scheduled for 1 p.m. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the report by mr christian doleschal on the subject 'environment: the århus regulation' (2020/0289 (cod)) (a9-0152/2021) has been referred to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. today is the day: we are finally voting on the revision of the aarhus regulation. this is an important day for public participation in europe, for transparency and also for economic recovery in europe. for in all our zeal to extend the scope of legal challenges to apparent threats to the environment, we should not forget that more power of action for individuals always means more bureaucracy. and that means long permitting processes and delayed construction projects. that is why i am proud that we have chosen a solution that strikes a balance between civic participation and economic viability. our compromise is a clear rejection of disputability at any cost. only citizens of the union who can prove that they are directly affected by the pollution can bring an action. if we want the economy to recover, we must not put any obstacles in the way of state aid. state aid is a lifeline for threatened regions, especially during a pandemic. that is why we have excluded state aid from the århus review. the reason why our compromise has been so successful is precisely because it does not blindly follow any ideology. instead, it considers how the legislation will affect in practice municipalities in need of state aid, small businesses whose projects are at risk. in short, this compromise takes account of the interests of the people. in all idealism, this is something that is often forgotten in politics.
we now come to the first round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting will be open from now until 2.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as at the previous partsession shall apply. however, i would point out that the votes on the extension of the term of office of ms julia laffranque as a member of the committee established by article 255 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and on the appointment of the chair of the european securities and markets authority (esma) will be held by secret ballot. members vote in the conventional way, but the ballot paper they must receive and sign does not indicate how they voted, only that they voted electronically. all other votes are by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote may not exceed 400 words. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 2.15 p.m. the results of this vote will be announced at 4.30 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (2021/2881 (rsp)).
mr president, lukashenko has committed a coup in belarus. violent repression by his regime continues: political prisoners, raids on peaceful protesters, a media crackdown. these fundamental attacks on democracy must stop now. so let’s hit them where it hurts. let’s cut off the flow of eu money to the regime with strong sanctions in crucial sectors and against companies that support the illegitimate government. winter is coming and refugees, the victims of lukashenko’s power play, risk freezing to death. the eu and the member states must protect them. the eu cannot look away while democracy is crumbling at our borders. now is the time to show leadership. now is the time to support the democratic forces and jointly to take responsibility on our side of the border.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is not the first time we have had to deal with a neighbour who does not shy away from human smuggling by the state, who cynically exploits human suffering, exploits it for his own power interests. it is the approach that erdogan has tried before at the greek border. it is the copy-paste moment of autocratic and dictatorial brains united in the desire to destabilise the union. our response to this is the same as before: a hybrid attack on one member of the union is an attack on all of us. but there is also an internal dimension to the processes. the fact that we are vulnerable to blackmail is unnecessary and superfluous. the proposals for the pact are on the table. they may not be to everyone's taste, but that's what negotiations are for. all member states which have so far taken a less ambitious approach to the work should urgently reconsider their positions. there is a european response to this challenge with practical and financial support from the union, through our agencies and in the spirit of european values. otherwise, we risk continuing to be exposed to hybrid attacks - perhaps not a good idea given the delicate international power shift.
i have to say, madam president, viruses do not stop at national borders. that is why it is right to make the eu a health union. we need better coordination and clear responsibilities. we greens therefore support in principle closer coordination of health policy and more powers for the european commission. the commission's plans, which are now on the table, are counterproductive. we need more democratic control and transparency. it is not right that the commission should be given more resources and tasks without parliament having any influence on the structure and design. the fact that the european commission is taking money from the research programme, the health programme and the crisis fund to strengthen its own structures is wrong. we have fought in the budgetary consultations for an increase in the health programme to support more local health projects - not so that it flows into the brussels administration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. all the members of this house, from all political groups, have complained about the lack of involvement of the european parliament and the lack of democratic control. this shows that this bill is in dire need of improvement. but it cannot be all that involving parliament now. the experience we have gained in the contracts we have concluded with the vaccine manufacturers shows that transparency seems to be a foreign word in this commission. the responsibility of the manufacturer also falls to the rear in case of doubt. it was clear in these negotiations who was in the long levers at the end of the day. and i'm afraid that's the way it's going to stay. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. please stop telling us stories here.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. billions of taxpayers' money are poured into development aid, into trust funds and other things to create a few jobs here and there and thus supposedly to combat the causes of flight or to help people. this dysfunctional system does not create any sustainability, but only provides the ngos with highly subsidized jobs. we doctor problems, then continue to sniff out the causes in a rabbit-and-jarrow fashion. let us finally call the problem by its name: the massive overpopulation of africa, the overpopulation in other parts of the world. what good is it to create thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of jobs when, in the same breath, millions are being forced into the labour market by the extreme birth rates? at the same time, we want to impose our values on other cultures with our neocolonialist approach, although this is clearly not desired see afghanistan. let us remember that our value system is not an export hit. speaking of afghanistan. even erdogan's muslim turkey is currently building a border fence with iran to keep the afghans out. the reason is that they are not culturally compatible. while we're flying in tens of thousands of afghans, even muslim countries are seeing the problems that we're not telling them about here because of political correctness. the aid to the refugees in turkey is also a panacea for the problems it has created. the cause is the syrian conflict. we may be talking to the taliban, but we're not talking to assad. let's talk to him, eliminate the potential for blackmail, get out of the victim role, restore stability to the region, and finally stop looking at our morals as the measure of all things.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the funding of erdogan with the so-called money for sheltering illegal migrants is one of the most striking examples of the political incompetence, irresponsibility, unwillingness and, i would say, political impotence of the european commission, the european parliament and the european union in general. millions of euros from the pockets of european taxpayers are pouring into erdogan's pockets, so that he can finance his little illegal dirty wars in syria, in libya, in nagorno-karabakh and wherever you want. people here and in the commission are being bullied and intimidated because the dictator erdogan can do whatever he wants at any moment and he does. what does paragraph 8 of the opinion of the committee on budgets say? is extremely concerned that in attempting to monitor humanitarian projects, the commission is hampered by the refusal of the turkish authorities to provide any data. commissioner, you give millions to erdogan, he puts it in his pocket and says "mind your own business!" and you say "ok, fine". great, good, but this is european taxpayers' money, it's not someone's own money, and this is a clear sign of failure, a clear proof that there should be zero migration and no concessions to dictators like erdogan.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the i am not saying that we should not be concerned. the report rightly points out that there is a massive lack of control and democratic control and transparency in trust funds. but that is precisely why we have these funds as shadow budgets. so those who say we need democratic control, those who demand it, must reject this instrument in principle, instead of giving the commission a free ticket. i want to illustrate this with two examples. eutf africa finances the libyan coastguard, which is responsible for serious human rights violations. the eu-turkey facility gives a free hand to an anti-democratic regime. and it also gives him the potential for blackmail. in summary, these trust funds are used to work with, for example, despots to keep refugees out of the eu. now i'm advocating for a humane migration policy, and i want a world where no one is forced to flee. that's why i say, stop cooperating with despots. and in turkish, there's a saying that says, "show me who your friend is, and i'll tell you who you are". applied to the eu and with regard to the trust funds, this is a clear statement.
madam president! illegal migration is not stopped by mandatory relocation of migrants to member states. the root causes of migration must be addressed by helping to maintain and improve living conditions in the countries that send migrants. the eu's trust funds have been able to contribute to this, providing vital financial resources to improve health services, such as water supply, in many african countries. making them more efficient and flexible is therefore a key issue in actual assistance. the funding instruments, especially the extraordinary instrument for turkey, which is important to us, were essential because they helped countries neighbouring syria, which are hosting syrian refugees. with turkey hosting more than four million asylum seekers, it is crucial that we continue to provide all the assistance we can to this country. this could and should be the guarantee that millions of people will not reappear at the external borders of the union. the legitimacy of such funds in any new form is obvious, and i would caution anyone against emptying them, as their value is speed and efficiency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. has the eu's commitment to support refugees in turkey been meaningful and successful, yes or no? my judgment is clear: yes, it was and is reasonable. eu funds stabilise the situation of refugees in turkey and make it possible to provide for various needs such as education, housing, healthcare, integration into the labour market and psychosocial support. eu funds are used exclusively for civilian aid organisations. we are thus strengthening civil society against the authoritarian turkish government and giving it planning certainty. the eu trust fund as an instrument has expired with the establishment of the new financial instrument europe in the world. the european parliament must therefore ensure that the needs of the turkish refugee population are adequately met and that new needs can be met quickly and flexibly, if necessary, when this new instrument is being programmed. i can assure you, on behalf of the epp group, that i will be keeping a close eye on this, including the geopolitical dialogue. because housing close to home is the best chance of return that we all hope for the people affected.
i have to say, madam president, over 13 billion euros have been provided in recent years through the trust funds for humanitarian aid to african states, turkey, colombia and syrian refugees. we greens support the eu spending more on humanitarian projects and showing responsibility. we are very much against the lack of transparency. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but it is hoping that the council will take a decision on the budget in the near future. instead of being funded by non-transparent funds, the projects should be adequately funded by the eu budget and controlled by parliament. we are criticising the violations of fundamental rights in projects financed by the funds. there must be no police violence against those seeking protection or closure disguised as humanitarian aid. if project partners do not respect human rights, they cannot be partners in the eu. we therefore call on the commission to: review the trust funds, create more transparency and conduct a human rights check on the project partners.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to limit myself to the refugee facility and make a few remarks. did you really think that the european union would sign agreements with erdoğan and that he would honour every single paragraph of those agreements? did you really think that the eu could avoid its obligation to protect the external borders and, in particular, to combat illegal migration, by concluding these agreements? did you really think that erdoğan would be able to play the role of eu auxiliary policeman for a long time? now turkey is planning a 300-kilometer border fence to protect its country from even more uncontrolled migration, especially from afghanistan. the demand from turkey for more money for this new task is actually understandable. the six billion euros promised so far are a lot of money to provide permanent supplies for the millions of migrants stranded in turkey. but for whatever reason, that money doesn't go far enough. the european union is not a party to the agreements with turkey, but it is a party to the agreements with turkey. commissioner, please tell the commissioner that: please reinstate frontex and finally take over the protection of the eu's external borders, and thank erdoğan for taking over this protection so far.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in a digital world, we're vulnerable if our networks are not secure. and that is the right thrust of this report. of course, he's got the now-sadly-common front page for this house, where he lists russia, china, even north korea as the big threat to our cybersecurity, but he ignores that all the big spying scandals of the last few years have been related to the nsa, even though he ignores that the largest budget of any country in the world for spying on the internet is not in russia, but in the united states. this 'cold war rhetoric' should be ignored when it comes to the security of our computer systems. and here it is indeed true that we have to think. it is also true that we must protect our european sovereignty in the digital domain. we can agree with reservations on this point, with two small critical additions. one is that as much as we appreciate the emphasis on the importance of the private sector, we would have liked to see greater emphasis on the big tech companies. they also threaten our cybersecurity because they are not democratically controlled and they operate from abroad. and secondly, we must be careful not to create new authorities at european level under the guise of fighting cybercrime, which ultimately only cost jobs, but do tasks that could be done all the better at national level. in this respect, a yes with reservations is also a sign that we must pull together on this important point. for the future, we want less cold war and more real cybersecurity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 6 october 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the humanitarian situation in tigray (2021/2902 (rsp)).
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the groups, because we have been working very hard this afternoon on a resolution which we are going to adopt in this house. all the groups have made very constructive contributions to the debate. all the factions? i'm not sure. one group, which is playing the role of defending christianity in particular, has not been involved at all. but that's the way it is. as a parliament we call above all for the cessation of all hostilities. this is the basic premise for us to be able to re-open access for humanitarian organizations in tigray. the commissioner has just very accurately described the situation and the suffering people are suffering from it. millions of people are suffering from hunger, and this basic condition must be created first. we've had this situation before where there was a ceasefire that was announced, but it wasn't kept. that is why i am convinced that we need an independent monitoring mechanism to ensure that a ceasefire is finally respected. because i think we can all agree that if the fighting continues and if there is this belief that you can solve a problem through war, then we will not have peace in this country. but war is not the way to find solutions, ladies and gentlemen. war creates problems, and that's why let's fight to end this war. we must also end the blockade of humanitarian organizations. we need a guarantee of safety for the ngos that are helping on the ground, that are bringing the necessary aid to the people, especially medicines, not only in tigray but also in the neighbouring regions of amhara and afar. it is shocking, and i agree with mrs arena here, that there are inexplicable war crimes, which are so heinous that they can hardly be named, there are mass rapes, there are systematic killings in ethiopia, and it is clear to me that we as the european union must also fight to ensure that those responsible for these crimes are held to account. such crimes, ladies and gentlemen, must not go unpunished. that is why it is important that we also send a clear signal at this point that we must use the european sanctions mechanism to target those who are committing these war crimes, those who are responsible for them or those who are covering up those who are committing these war crimes. the united states has now moved ahead on this point. we, as the european union, should follow suit, and send a clear signal: war crimes will be prosecuted and those who cover them up will be sanctioned. the european union is a community of values. and we must uphold these values with all our might.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the situation is too dramatic to be ignored. that is a shared consensus. all the reports of brutal sexual or gender—based violence, including gang rapes, sexualised torture and ethnically motivated sexual violence leave the world’s public and me, as a woman, shocked. this systematic use of violence, which leaves wounds for generations, must stop. my call to the head of government abiy ahmed, and all who are currently in charge or involved in this conflict: do not further manoeuvre yourself and the country into the international sidelines. do not look for false new international friends. serious human rights violations cannot be hidden from the eyes of the global public and the judiciary. in the long run, those responsible will certainly be held accountable. this is not a threat. how could i? but in other wars and conflicts and a reminder of what courts are increasingly prepared to do in the future in the context of universal jurisdiction. therefore, let’s break the deep—seated pattern of human rights violations. let’s end this war. let’s improve the humanitarian situation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 october 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report (a9-0239/2021) by mrs anna fotyga, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the arctic: opportunities, concerns and security challenges (2020/2112 (ini)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 7 october 2021. the house will now adjourn for a few minutes. it will be resumed at 8 p.m. with the opening of the second round of voting today. (the sitting was suspended at 7.48 p.m.)
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 9.15 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m. the debate will continue at 8.30 p.m. with the debate on the oral question to the commission on the evaluation of the eu measures for the tourism sector towards the end of the summer season. (the sitting was suspended at 8.03 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there's a beautiful quote by us president ronald reagan that the worst sentence in the english language is, "i'm from the government, and i'm here to help you". yes, the tourism industry is in serious trouble. we also have regions which are suffering, particularly in the mediterranean. in the southern eu countries we have youth unemployment rates sometimes above 30%. but the solution will not be to send more european staff and bureaucrats to think up solutions and then have parliamentarians debate whether they are good or bad. tourism will live on the fact that people can travel again and that the hosts and hoteliers can open their shops and offer these tourists the service that makes them travel. we need less restriction, we need less regulation, we need more freedom, and we need the confidence that where tourists and hosts come together, something happens. i am therefore sure that everything the commissioner and the commission do is well-intentioned. i'm sure there's a lot of money flowing, too. but it is not the task of an authority in brussels to promote tourism in the mediterranean, in balaton or in romania. the hosts and hoteliers can do it themselves, you just have to let them. and the more we do, the less we let them do what they're supposed to do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, two weeks ago i met a very special woman. her name is frances haugen and she is the facebook whistle-blower who spoke out sunday night on cbs. she did this because in the past she lost a friend to online conspiracy theories and did not want anyone to feel the pain that she had felt. tonight, i want to honour her courage and her moral high ground by lending my voice to her words in this high house, hoping she will soon be able to speak to us herself. i quote, ‘the thing i saw at facebook over and over again was that there were conflicts of interest between what was good for the public and what was good for facebook. and facebook, over and over again, chose to optimise for its own interests, like making more money. one of the consequences of how facebook is picking out that content today is that it is optimising for content that gets engagement, or reaction. but its own research is showing that this is content that is hateful, that is divisive, that is polarising – it’s easier to inspire people to anger than it is to other emotions. when we live in an information environment that is full of angry, hateful, polarising content, it erodes our civic trust, it erodes our faith in each other, it erodes our ability to want to care for each other. the version of facebook that exists today is tearing our societies apart and causing ethnic violence around the world. facebook has realised that if they change the algorithm to be safer, people will spend less time on the site, they’ll click on less ads, they’ll make less money. facebook, over and over again, has shown it chooses profit over safety. i’m hoping that this will have had a big enough impact on the world that they get the fortitude and the motivation to actually go put those regulations into place. that’s my hope.’ those are frances’ words. i feel gratitude and i share her hope. colleagues, she has done her bit. now let’s do ours. let’s approve a digital services act with real teeth.
i have to say, madam president, i have nothing against this debate, but today it is really absurd and one wonders: behind what moon is this parliament living, and above all, behind what moon is mr glucksmann living? on september 26th - you may not have noticed this - not only was there the election to the german bundestag, but also the election to the berlin state parliament. this election was a unique state-induced manipulation of the voter's will. voters had to wait up to four and a half hours to cast their ballots. in the berlin district of wilmersdorf, 77 more votes were cast than there were voters at all. in other constituencies, the turnout was as high as 150% of those eligible to vote. minors were allowed to vote, although the minimum voting age is 18. if you were a bit clever, you could not only vote by postal vote, but also vote in person at the polling station. many districts received ballots with candidates running in other districts. so, anyone who voted in the belief that this was the correct ballot, voted invalidly. since the leaders responsible for the elections sometimes only realized at noon or in the afternoon that they did not have the correct ballots, we have 30, 50 or even 60% of invalid votes in some constituencies. four days after the election, only one estimate was available from 22 berlin constituencies, which was identical in all 22 cases. responsible for this chaos, for this deliberate distortion of the voter's will: the berlin government of the left, the greens and the socialists, that is, the party friends of precisely those who are always complaining about the alleged manipulation of the voter's will by social media. now the big question: why isn't this a topic here? of course, because the socialists, greens and leftists here do not want to go against their party friends in berlin. and the epp will not take up this issue either, because it is currently in coalition negotiations at federal level with these or most of these parties. frankly, we can spare ourselves this debate. for massive election manipulation, social media is not necessary, it only requires the deliberate prevention of elections by the greens, social democrats and the left. this and the manipulated elections in berlin, this is what we should be talking about urgently and not so much about a gaga issue like misinformation through social media.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on new year's eve 2015/2016, a massive attack by newly arrived migrants on women celebrating in cologne took place. the police chief of cologne issued a press release saying there were no incidents, and all publicly-funded media outlets have reported on this. it was only through reports on social media, on facebook and twitter, that this incident became known and sparked a massive public debate about immigration. by your standards of disinformation and propaganda, the eyewitness accounts of the events at the cologne domplatte were lies and should have been suppressed. the truth is, it was only through these social media that the lies of the police leadership and public broadcasting were exposed. there is no going back to a monopoly of the state radio. i agree with you, mr schieder, that we must break up groups like facebook and monopolists. you can count on us. but as long as these people have a monopoly, we will stand up for the freedom of expression of the users. so that they can see that we are not playing facebook: at least our voters are already very much on telegram, and against any closure and any state repression we will respond with the means of technology. freedom of expression is now a reality through social platforms. it's the way it is, no matter how many laws they try to pass against it.
i have to say, madam president, i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. after all, the very people responsible for these high electricity prices are also sitting here. so we're trying to cure a disease that we ourselves have caused. look, one or two colleagues have speculated that we've found reasons abroad. we have the evil putin, of course, back in russia, and many other stories. we even suspect the economic recovery right now after corona to be responsible here. but in the past ten years between 2010 and 2020, taxes, fees and charges on electricity have increased by well over 70 percent in germany alone. they now account for almost 50 percent of the price of electricity. in view of this, it is ridiculous to try to attribute all possible exogenous causes to this. when the scenario of rising energy costs and the threat of blackouts actually became tangible, when we could see it, all those who drew attention to it were called black painters. well, if it keeps up, we'll all be painting in black soon. it will be the result of various daydreams here in space. that is the heart of the matter, ladies and gentlemen. the issue now - and this has been raised today - is to reduce taxes. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations on the future of the community.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have heard the word 'historical' several times today in connection with gas prices. and if you look at the internet, no, it's not historical. we've had gas prices this high before in 2013. fortunately, we are better equipped today, because we have more renewables in the mix, and we have implemented efficiency measures. so that means that in the long run, this is also our best hedge against the price increase of fossil fuels: out of fossils, into renewables, down on energy waste. but that's not going to happen in the next two days, or the next two weeks, or the next two months, or the next two years. so yes, we also need direct action to support those who are most affected by this price increase, but please don't just put a can of water, please don't put fossil fuel subsidies simply through tax breaks for everyone. because part of the increase is also due to speculation, and it is bitter when we again put tax money directly into the pockets of speculators. that is why we need measures in the forthcoming gas market regulation. i'm counting on you, mrs. simson.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about a completely new phenomenon: energy poverty. and rightly so: we are seeing the cost of fuel and heating explode. last winter 30 million europeans were trapped in cold flats, and this winter we are facing even worse. and what does the eu want to do? it wants to distribute hundreds of billions to the needy through a fund once again - money that will, of course, be re-generated to solve the problems it has created. because it's the green deal. the green deal is responsible for the problems. and what we're seeing now is just the tip of the iceberg. the price of a ton of co2 is now just 25 euros. if we want to achieve the objectives, it must be at least 150 euros. that will lead to an explosion in prices. so let me be clear: the green deal is the end of social peace and prosperity in europe. mrs von der leyen said it was a noble task. this noble task, this warm feeling in the heart, to save the world from climate change mrs von der leyen can afford it, but unfortunately most europeans cannot. mrs. von der leyen also said that the green deal is like landing on the moon. so i want to remind you, there are no people living on the moon. and the moon is freezing. so i wish mrs. von der leyen the best of luck with her moon landing. and, mrs von der leyen, please take the commission and the european parliament on your journey to the moon. because that's where you belong, so you don't cause any more trouble for the people here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the increase in energy prices in europe means job losses. and of course, pricing co2 is important for climate protection, emissions trading is important. and yet there are things we can do. here are five suggestions: first, more grid expansion, more smart grids, more intelligent control, power on demand, so you can match consumption to supply. secondly, in times of low electricity prices, these savings must be passed on to consumers. thirdly, ever higher standards are expensive. it is technology openness and ehs certificate trading that provide the best and cheapest solutions. and these new technologies can then be sold worldwide and create jobs here. fourthly, the revenue from the eec must be returned to the people as a citizen's dividend. fifthly, higher prices necessarily mean higher tax revenues on energy. that is why the winners are the member states, and the losers are the people. that is why we must reduce energy taxes. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. rising energy costs mean the loss of jobs and wealth. stable prices are the key to a successful europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. do you not also feel the strange irony that this is the place to talk about rising prices and energy poverty? it is the commission, with its completely unsound policies, its uneconomic renewable energy ideology, its zero-emission dream and its out-of-control co2 pricing and reduction, which is not only supported by the overwhelming majority of meps, but also by you, ladies and gentlemen, who make it worse at every possible opportunity. so is it precisely this pseudo-ecological-planned-economy doctrine that is the trigger and cause of the crisis we are now discussing? energy poverty in two senses. so the economic energy poverty caused by skyrocketing prices and the energy poverty caused by the lack of electricity are all your fault. their solution: more market intervention in an already completely deregulated market. and if the wind doesn't blow, you just build more windmills. after running out of coal, they're now tinkering with the end of the bad natural gas. prices are outrageous, storage is empty. welcome to your future. free to einstein: it's madness to keep doing the same thing and expect different results. for your announced climate bailout to work, you would need marketable electricity for 24 hours, seven days a week. china is investing in new, promising technologies such as the thorium liquid salt reactor. in the eu, especially in germany, people are betting on stone age and muscle power instead of brains - often in the form of cargo bikes.
i have to say, madam president, natural gas prices have risen tenfold in the last two years, and many are looking to the winter with trepidation. the european union must make a promise that no child will have to wake up in a cold room because their parents can no longer afford electricity and heat. to help people in need, we need to act now. for example, no one is to have their electricity or gas turned off this winter. but it's also clear that if we want our children to grow up in a world that is free and worth living in, we need to do more to protect the climate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. it's just the two of them together. we need to expand renewables now, fast. because wind and solar power are already cheaper than fossil fuels. the energy transition is good for the climate and for the wallet.
madam president, commissioner simson, when we discussed here in this room in 2015 the ambitious plan for the energy union, we declared that we would never again allow any supplier to cycle our energy supply and threaten our energy security. today, six years later, energy prices show that we have not provided for a sufficient diversified supply of fuel for the transition to natural gas. and most importantly, we have not yet built the necessary green energy storage infrastructure to increase our energy independence. we must move immediately to coordinated action at european level for diversified gas supplies, unlocking the potential of the world's largest single market. accelerate the deployment of renewable energy and storage infrastructure, as well as the upgrading of existing infrastructure. ladies and gentlemen, in the city where i grew up and live, in thessaloniki, according to a study by the aristotle university of thessaloniki in 2018, six out of ten households depend on natural gas. one in ten is waiting for the temperature to drop to 50 degrees fahrenheit [15°c] to turn on the heating system. addressing energy poverty through dedicated holistic upgrading programmes in vulnerable neighbourhoods, promoting energy communities and encouraging small-scale green energy production by households is urgent. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the recovery, the competitiveness of businesses, jobs, the quality of life for all of us is at stake. we can't wait until tomorrow. the european union must act now.
madam president, commissioner, we are in the midst of a real energy crisis on the eve of winter. you cannot take measures to shut down, as happened in my country, the hunedoara energy complex without having alternative measures. utilities are not a luxury for citizens, they are natural necessities, we learned that from maslow. we cannot have millions of citizens who, right now, in my country and in other states, cannot pay their bills, cannot pay their energy and their heating, and entire families will be sitting out in the cold this winter. that is why, commissioner, you must recognize that urgent action is needed because the energy strategy has failed and we must have action now, not in a month, not in two months. we have to understand that the transition to green energy has to be done at the pace that alternative energy can come. otherwise, we are making a mockery of the citizens and we cannot help thinking about the health and lives of the citizens, but also about the economy, because of course, smes are suffering and will not be able to pay their bills. i await your answer to give us the concrete measures you want to take.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a new impetus for the european economy after the covid lockdown. this has led to a huge increase in the demand for energy. in addition to this huge increase in demand, we have, unfortunately, a stiff reaction from the european union. demand is rising and supply is stiffening, because energy solutions are being limited to certain technologies. the principle of technological neutrality, i.e. the possibility of a genuine mix between different energy sources, has always enabled our system to react flexibly to these emergencies. the lack of energy to meet this increase in demand therefore increases prices. we, the continent with the highest sustainability performance - as much as 35% of our electricity is now produced from renewable sources - cannot create a system that completely disadvantages other forms, for example by subtracting funding from another useful source for the transition, such as gas. the result is higher prices paid by businesses and households. we must therefore return to that genuine mix in order to implement, for example, article 194 of the treaty on european union, which requires us not only to make the transition but also to ensure the security of energy supplies. europe has a strong economy, and it needs to be supported in this way.
mr president, the european union has actually succeeded in quite a number of the objectives which were set for the energy union in the past. we have achieved emissions reductions, increased renewable energy, improved energy efficiency, but we have not succeeded in reducing energy dependence. on the contrary, europe's dependence on imported energy has even increased. this is particularly true for natural gas, where russia has a significant share, and the decision taken and the construction of nord stream 2 will only make this situation worse. nord stream 2 runs counter to all the objectives set for the energy union. the current rise in energy prices obviously requires rapid action in many member states. we must be able to help citizens and businesses in difficulty, but in the long term the only way to improve the situation is to increase investment in renewable energy, diversify energy sources and also invest in nuclear power, which currently produces half of europe's zero-emission electricity. within europe, we need to invest in self-sufficiency and diversification of energy sources, as well as in increasing regulatory capacity and storage, and in improving the flow of energy from one member state to another so that no member state is dependent on a single energy supplier or source. we must continue to make these investments in modern infrastructure.
madam president, energy prices have risen dramatically in recent months. the reasons are many, but the main one is the rally of fossil fuels and natural gas. in greece, energy poverty affects over 20% of greeks, compared to the european average of just 7%. the current crisis risks leaving even more households without heating. some member states have taken some temporary measures, mainly the subsidy on accounts. however, if the increases continue, i doubt that these measures will be enough. the subsidy is necessary in the short term, but it does not reduce our dependence on imports, leaving europe vulnerable to price fluctuations and the economy vulnerable to geopolitical games by third countries. they need structural changes before the winter comes. common policies are needed to help citizens in need, measures to make the electricity market work and also a common strategy for gas supplies across europe so that we can negotiate better prices, as has already been done with vaccines.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. our discussions today in parliament and among the eu finance ministers show that energy prices are extremely sensitive for both the public and industry. affordable energy is a key promise of the social market economy, and internationally competitive electricity prices for industry will determine whether to continue producing in the eu or to move jobs and know-how abroad. we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that energy is available reliably and at a reliable price. it is up to eu member states to take appropriate measures to combat the current increase. responsible member states have responded by reducing taxes, levies and, indeed, by issuing energy vouchers. the eu is committed to the massive expansion of renewable energy, storage capacity, grid expansion, green hydrogen and energy efficiency. this is the right way forward in the medium and long term, because it will lead to greater independence and stable prices. but we have to be careful with our instruments on the way there. investors, companies and governments need clear signals that investing in decarbonisation continues to be worthwhile, and our citizens need certainty that we are socially cushioning this transition. we have to be measured by that.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – faced with the rising energy costs, several eu governments have already announced measures to support low-income households in order to pay their energy bills. i ask to the commission to produce a set of measures for the eu countries in order to tackle the rising energy price without breaching the bloc’s energy market rules. these measures would help governments to respond quickly to the increase price within eu rules. eu countries can introduce safeguards to ensure that no one is disconnected from the energy grid, in order to assure economic and social sustainability. providing targeted support to consumers, direct payments to those most at risk of energy poverty, cutting energy taxes, providing support to energy efficiency for buildings, and a plan to prevent speculation on the european carbon market, for not jeopardizing the energy transition are important measures, which could be taken very swiftly, under eu rules, in a transparent manner.
in writing. – gas and electricity prices in europe are surging to extremely high levels. the first direct effect will be, already is, on the pockets of citizens and small businesses. the second expected impact will be an increase in the selling price of european products and services. eventually, this situation will lead to further inflation and a higher price for european exports. as a first reaction, the only way out is government intervention through direct subsidies and other forms of state aid. they would be intended to protect consumers, as well as to maintain the competitiveness of the european economy. in the long-term, we need to aim at a two-step solution. first, governments can take note of the eu’s success with the covid vaccine purchase and adopt a similar pooled approach to negotiate energy procurement. secondly, europe needs a real alternative to fossil fuels. some might argue that european climate efforts are partly to blame for the current crisis. indeed, this is not the first time energy suppliers left europe high and dry. the only way forward in the long term is energy autonomy. for this, we need to press harder to create our own sources through renewable energy and to enhance conservation by improving energy efficiency.
in writing. the skyrocketing energy prices in many european countries are a hint of what will happen if we do not act wisely in implementing the green deal objectives. the current energy price crisis also shows that the eu has a strategic interest in expanding renewable and low-carbon energy and in reducing its dependence on fossil fuels. i therefore support the call for pragmatic, technology-neutral approaches to make as much low-cost and climate-friendly energy as possible available.
we now come to the first round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 1 p.m. to 2.45 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 2.45 p.m. the results of the votes will be announced at 7 p.m.
the id group has sent the president decisions on the change of appointments to committees. these decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the day of their publication. (the sitting was suspended at 1.04 p.m.)
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, when asked to assess the historical importance of the french revolution, chinese premier zhou enlai famously said: ‘it is too early to say.’ today we know the revolution failed. for the pandora papers have once again confirmed that the very rich remain tax exempt, and avoid paying tax perfectly legally. two comments. first, many of the tax evaders are from countries which are among the largest recipients of german and eu development aid or of eu recovery funds. yet neither germany nor the eu wants to impose sanctions on those countries or persons. where action could be, but isn’t, taken, there is obviously no political will to stop mass tax evasion by the super-rich. it is all idle talk here. second, it is noteworthy that while most of the non-western tax evaders are politicians, most western evaders are celebrities and companies. the reason is obvious: western politicians are rarely plutocrats, but mere gatekeepers of the plutocracy. that explains why this house is plundering the middle classes and pandering to the plutocracy. the middle class is today’s third estate, and our politicians are the second estate, which is legitimating rule by the first. it is europe before 1789 but with fewer europeans.
madam president, from 2014 to 2017 andrej babiš was the finance minister of the czech republic and as such was sitting on the council, negotiating anti-money laundering, tax evasion, the fight against tax havens. but while he was sitting on the council, andrej babiš had a secret because he himself, while saying that he was fighting tax evasion, used a letterbox company to buy a eur 15 million château in the south of france, hiding his identity and shielding the source of the funding. it would not be the last time, of course, that andrej babiš was hiding a conflict of interest from his colleagues on the council. we know from the commission now, it is certified, his ongoing conflicts of interest, but nothing happens. he isn’t stepping down. he isn’t selling his companies. and he clearly hasn’t stopped taking eu money. he is actually making the czech republic fight for it. the rules are clear. conflicts of interest should not persist, particularly not at the heart of decision-making in the european council. and if andrej babiš doesn’t resolve that conflict of interest, well, then the others need to force him. the council should stop sitting down and negotiating with him, while the conflict of interest persists.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not politicians like to denounce the harmful practices of the taxpayers. let us talk about government practices and expenditures that are harmful to taxpayers. the german government has brought at least 2.5 million migrants into the country since 2015, including newborns from asylum seekers. each unaccompanied minor migrant costs the german taxpayer €65,000 a year, while other migrants cost slightly less. that's at least 40 to 60 billion a year for a lifetime. the eu also has the world's most expensive currency. the euro costs germany alone around 100 billion euros a year in target2 loans and 80 billion euros in lost savings interest, much more expensive than the climate bailout, from which only green financial jugglers profit. in hungary, citizens pay a flat 15 percent rate on income and families with four children pay no taxes at all. in russia, every family with two children receives a government payment for the purchase of a property. all this, and they also get a non-political educational and cultural system without early sexualization for primary school students. all of this is possible outside the euro area. in the eurozone, we have debt-financed special programs for socially degenerate people.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the arf, the core of the european economic recovery package, will make europe greener, more digital and hopefully more social. it can be a blueprint for europe's strength: a common financial and investment strength, a common vision for the future. and there are still major joint projects to be undertaken, particularly in the digital and climate fields. what we cannot allow is for this eu lighthouse project to become a blueprint for the erosion of democracy in europe, for corrupt dictators to use our taxpayers' money to indirectly fund elections, or even for the persecution and exclusion of people from the lgbtiq community. the commission now has a difficult task. it must effectively combine the different instruments for upholding the rule of law in order to uphold european values. at the same time, we want to make it clear to the people in the countries concerned that we are on your side. because we're committed to making sure that the money really gets to where it's needed.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the eu's reconstruction fund, worth well over 700 billion euros, is illegally financed by eurobonds and is supposedly designed to mitigate the economic and social impact of the coronavirus wave. in fact, the fund is a shadow budget that violates the debt prohibition in articles 310 and 311 of the treaties and serves to finance 'green steal' and as a bribe for eastern europe to swallow the eu migration pact and eu-mandated sex education for preschoolers. but hungary and poland do not want hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, or early sexualization, or literacy. poland alone is to receive almost 40 billion from the fund, but the money will be blocked for the time being. hungary and poland are accused of political influence on the judiciary and lack of media freedom. germany is the spokesman against both. but in germany, all high judges are appointed by the government, prosecutors are politically bound, and public broadcasting is financed and controlled by the government. i believe it is time for german restraint and an end to the eu's double standards.
mr president, i say to the commissioner: stand firm. eu taxpayers’ money should not reward governments that violate the most fundamental principles of the european union. this is especially true for governments that do not accept the primacy of eu law or have a history of corruption, embezzlement and fraud. i therefore urge you not to approve the current polish or hungarian plans until we know that this money actually benefits the citizens and safeguards their rights. stand firm. in addition, commissioner, let’s prepare well for the future. if you act smartly now, you will be able to stop the flow of recovery money every six months for the next five years. for that to work, i ask you to ensure that the plans have strict six-month targets in improving the rule of law and fighting corruption, and second, to let parliament help you. make backroom deals public and give us access to all operational agreements between you and the national governments. commissioner, we are fighting a good fight. let’s make sure the tide turns, we improve the rule of law, we fight corruption, and benefit the citizens of this union. i ask you to stand firm.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are talking about the reconstruction fund, and our position has always been that such a reconstruction fund with debt and eu money is bad because it turns partners on an equal footing into donor and recipient countries and thus establishes a hierarchy. nevertheless, care must be taken to ensure that the funds are spent correctly and equitably and not for political reasons. and again it's against poland and hungary. poland is supposed to get 4% of its gdp, hungary 7% and they don't want to give it because of the lack of rule of law. i then looked at the neighbouring country, croatia, which is supposed to get much more from the fund, namely 13 per cent of its gross domestic product. croatia is significantly more corrupt than poland and hungary on the corruption perceptions index, and since joining the union, since 2020, the score has even gotten worse. there is no problem with the plan in croatia, but there is a problem with poland and hungary. what is the difference between croatia on the one hand and poland and hungary on the other? the difference is a prime minister of the european people's party. it is not about corruption perception indices, it is not about rule of law problems, but it is about punishing an unpopular conservative government that we have in both poland and hungary, whereas you can be as corrupt and criminal as possible if you just follow the mainstream of this house and the commission. and we are opposed to this and demand the release of the hungarians and the poles.
madam president, we’re discussing a simple question today: is it a good idea right now to pay out many billions of euros to poland and hungary, countries that have no independent judiciary, that are defiant of decisions of the european court of justice, and where, in the case of hungary, orbán and his family and friends are stealing eu money on an industrial scale? so i would ask: how are we even discussing this right now? the commission says that the use of the rule of law conditionality is imminent or it will be shortly used, and we’re still discussing giving away the main leverage, the biggest lever that we have to protect the rule of law, democracy, freedom of the press and the integrity of the eu budget, in poland and hungary. this is just a ridiculous idea. don’t fund corruption. don’t fund attacks on the rule of law. don’t fund the attack on our freedoms and don’t give eu money if it’s being misused in those countries.
madam president, commissioner, we have supported the creation of the recovery fund with all our strength from the outset, because we believe that this fund is a powerful weapon in the hands of the european union to support and help the member states, the economies, the societies and the european citizens. the european union has rightly responded with the historic sum of eur 675 billion for the recovery fund to support the economies of the member states. but i take the opportunity of your presence, commissioner, to say that in addition to strong economies and societies in the european union we want a strong culture, principles and values. i should like to mention that a television channel, euronews, decided overnight to discontinue its greek programme and its greek language, when, as you are well aware, this particular channel is funded by 20 million a year from the european union, from the european commission, and when the basic principle for its funding is the preservation and protection of the languages of the european union. we offer and contribute 40% of euronews' revenue from european union funds. if we are really declaring that the european union is based on european culture, which is greek and roman culture, then we are talking about cultural mutilation by this euronews decision. at this moment i am not only defending the greek language; i am defending multilingualism, which is a fundamental value for the european union, and at this time, when the european union offers so much to its 675 billion citizens, we need more than ever to add languages, to convey the image and voice of the european union to all countries, to all european citizens, and not to take away. i would ask you, commissioner, to react immediately and to have an immediate answer to this question, because it is really unfair that the greek language is being cut off from euronews at this moment.
madam president, the recovery fund is a revolutionary new and good tool, and i support it. as a social democrat representative who is particularly sensitive to the problems of hungarian society, i am very pleased about this, since hungarian society must have a vision of the future that the european union can help it with, and we need european resources. and we're also getting a benefit from this money, because our children and our grandchildren are part of this common system, and so they're also carrying the burden. we are happy to do so, but i wonder if it will achieve the objective that the european union is aiming at. and that's the problem, because it's coming, but it's not going where it should, because the pro-state orban system is sucking it up, stealing it, using it for its own purposes, to put it bluntly. dear committee, you are being made a fool of by the orbán government again, if after six months of negotiations you suddenly say that everything is fine, the orbán system can receive this money. while the government at home says, it lies, that the european commission wants to use lgbtq activists to promote non-transformative surgery in kindergartens, we know that this is about corruption, about the judiciary, about the dismantling of the state party. let me ask you a question very quickly: why do you not answer me when i ask the commission what exactly the negotiating points are with the hungarian government? we have a right to know. i sent you a letter about this three weeks ago. they didn't answer. put it on the table, exactly what the trial is all about, and we can decide.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard a lot of passionate speeches today about the rule of law, and i have to say: everything we have heard about it is correct. the european union has unfortunately become indebted for the first time since its foundation, so to speak. and yes, it is absolutely right that not a single euro of this debt, which is being incurred for the first time, is being paid out to member states which do not respect the rule of law without a doubt. mr gentiloni, what we also need here is a discussion on how the money is being invested. for the first time, the european union is running up debt, which is about 0.8 percent of the wealth that is distributed across the continent. 0.8 percent that means we have over 99 percent of the wealth in the european union that is not invested. and here's the mistake. what we need is a discussion about the wealth that is in the european union, on this continent. we need to discuss this. how can we ensure that this money, which is in households, is invested and does not lead the european union further into a spiral of debt? we need to discuss how to make tax breaks for people who want to digitize, for companies who want to digitize. and we need the discussion about how to make tax breaks or write-offs to stop man-made climate change. we should be discussing this as much as we are discussing the rule of law. it is just as important to do this in the future, rather than making life more difficult for people through debt, overloading.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament and the council. the aim is to help northern european savers save and repair failing banks throughout the euro zone. after brexit, germany already pays around 45 billion euros a year to the eu. in addition, some 100 billion target2 credits to the euro area and some 80 billion euro of expropriation of savers by negative ecb interest rates and rising inflation. and the so-called common asylum policy, whose rules are ignored by everyone, costs the germans another 40 to 60 billion euros every year. and then there's the insane cost of saving the climate. nowhere are the payroll taxes higher than in germany - except perhaps in belgium - nowhere is the native birth rate lower and the people older than in germany, italy and japan. and nowhere are electricity prices higher than in germany the trend is increasing. you're acting like we're in the land of the smart ones. because the german government believes that it is economically all-powerful, like the us after 1945, and is squandering money on grandiose monetary, financial, migration and climate projects that must fail because they are against the world order and reason. whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad. and you can be sure of this: once germany's credit rating is downgraded, your letters of pardon, social experiments, bank bailouts and your world-saving madness will be over!
mr president, i want to start with the words of the council itself. to quote the treaty, it says ‘determined to lay the foundation of an ever closer union among the peoples of europe, resolved to ensure the economic and social progress of their countries by common action to eliminate the barriers that divide europe.’ those barriers are still here in the form of useless regulation, unnecessary bureaucratic complication and common public frustration. the european cross—border mechanism solves these issues. it brings peoples across europe together and raises economic prosperity. regions that now are peripheric in regard to their member states can become a central part of europe with enhanced cooperation, with new jobs, with prosperity and an improvement of livelihood. for three years already, 15 member states have been blocking the ecbm. for what? it is because they think that the slightest reduction of their own competences is too much. because national politicians are afraid that they might lose power. the council is not acting in the interest of the european people. the ecbm is justified by the treaty to which the member states have committed. the ecbm is just because it is in line with the commission’s mandate and does not infringe competences. the ecbm is needed because it improves the situation for border regions and betters the lives of the people in those regions. the ecbm is appropriate because the benefit overwhelms the loss of competences. when will the council adopt a position and start negotiation with us? when will you finally take the treaty seriously and start working for the european people? i believe i speak for all my colleagues in the committee on regional development when i say that all our doors are open for you and for talks so that we can ease concerns, build trust and bring the european cross-border mechanism to a conclusion, because we are ready to work for the european people.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, today i woke up to the sad news in the media which we had all more or less been expecting: greece, croatia, and romania are pushing people back over european borders to stop them from applying for asylum. at the same time, today, we have the afghanistan resettlement forum, where we more or less expect that national ministers will agree not to resettle a single soul in europe. what a day this is already. why is all this happening? there’s a very simple truth. in the absence of an actual european asylum system, a system that could easily cope with the numbers that we are currently seeing and propose the stability of their asylum claims, we have reverted to a system of violence and terror. violence and terror as deterrence so that people don’t come. we try to match their suffering that they experienced at home with the suffering that they will experience here. pushing people back is just the most obvious symbol of the system. tents at the seaside where, yet again, families freeze with their children this winter is a second, and another 100 people dying in the mediterranean over the last two weeks is a third. in the absence of a system, we use suffering to keep control. what a shame for this continent and our enlightened society, but then, enlightenment hasn’t stopped us from committing the worst atrocities in history. now the weird thing is that there is a solution. building a functioning european asylum system does not mean that everyone who comes can stay. it just means that we adhere to our european values while we are processing the asylum claims. i’m happy that, with the european asylum agency, we are an ever—so—little step closer to such a system. while the agency cannot process claims itself yet, it can start organising solidarity between member states. while some changes would be linked to a dublin reform, it can already start to set minimum standards and ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are safeguarded in the different european systems. the agency, obviously, with the fundamental rights officer, will have a much stronger role in this as well. in november, i will go visit samos again. i am quite afraid to go there because i know that i will look people in the eye and have to say that, over the last two years since i last visited, i didn’t really achieve much. however, i am happy that, at least with the european asylum agency, we can go in the direction of trying to build a better system. let’s see this as a start to actually work with those who want to work constructively on a better european asylum system, so that we can give back decency to the people who are arriving and, by extension, to ourselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. today we're making progress, and we're showing that we can do this, that we can compromise on immigration policy, and that's a good sign. i think that we should not be impressed here in this house by the hate speech of the far right and ultraconservatives, but we should try to reach joint compromises that are in line with the values of this continent. and that's what we're doing today. with the decision on easo, the european asylum agency, we are going a step further and strengthening this asylum agency in its important task of supporting the fundamental rights of people in europe. and we have problems in europe, and we must not belittle them. we have problems with how people who come to europe, who seek refuge, who flee their country because there is war or because they are persecuted there, are treated in europe. the agency's task is to support the member states in their work. we are all aware that it is precisely in the member states which are on the outer borders of europe, which are in the south, which are on the mediterranean, that refugees are arriving and that they are taking on a task for us europeans. and that is why we must make it clear: we are supporting these member states in carrying out this task. that is why it is so important to revise this mandate. that is why it is so important that we expand, strengthen, support and better staff the european asylum agency so that the member states can receive this support from the european level. this is a sign of european solidarity with the member states to the south and with refugees alike.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am grateful once again for this debate. i learned that small national flags - whether austrian, german or italian - are unacceptable political banners, but t-shirts with left-wing union slogans are not. mr president, the interpretation of the rules of procedure which you have given is once again - how shall i say this - refreshing. the new agency: that's typical eu. here the second step is taken before the first. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to achieve their goals. that has not yet happened either. and above all, the danish social democrats have actually left the european asylum system entirely. they want zero immigration and they want to bring back people who have already migrated. this should sink in at some point. in other words, we have an agency which, for lack of a business basis, does not really know what to do. that is as refreshing as the interpretation of the rules of procedure. it's a bit like getting dressed and then getting in the shower. like i said, refreshing, but also a little idiotic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union agency for asylum can provide logistical assistance to member states in managing migration and coordinating with each other, but this is not the only and crucial problem. it is much more important to make good, long-term political decisions about who can come and live in the european union and under what conditions. and these decisions should be widely communicated publicly so that those migrants who will not be able to come to the european union do not even leave their homes. also, no member should be forced to take in a migrant it does not want to take in. the economic realities of the member states differ and this should be respected, as should the will of the citizens in a given country. in any case, we must not allow the seasonal migration. we need to strengthen cooperation with third countries and seek to manage migration processes at the point of origin. stihija only responds to organized crime and those in the political arena who use emotional blackmail to further their multi-cult globalist agenda.
mr president, the new pact on asylum and migration, the european asylum agency, is a step up in the european union's repression of persecuted people, while the european union shares responsibility with the united states and nato for the imperialist wars and, in particular, for the twenty-year intervention in afghanistan. the systematic curtailment of the rights of asylum seekers by the european union and governments is being planned, as in the case of new democracy in greece with its reactionary laws and the expulsions, as before, of syriza, with the moria misery and the european union-turkey agreement. the asylum application is becoming a forgery. the evidence: the eu guidelines on burying the geneva convention, alleged illegal immigrants, returns, deportations, prison superstructures and the subsidization of ngos. the people of the greek islands are demanding, in their vigorous demonstrations these days, no more confinement in superstructures-prisons for uprooted people; no more deportations; guaranteeing all the rights to asylum, decent housing, work, health and education; asylum procedures in the countries of actual destination. to strengthen the struggle against imperialist interventions, which lead the peoples to suffering and oppression.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. generally speaking, you become an adult at the age of 18, and you have new rights, but also new duties and responsibilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what we can welcome today. after almost three years of debate, a success in the area of asylum and migration, and thus a memorable moment in itself. the asylum support office has become one of our most important tools in the area of asylum and migration in recent years. over 400 experts are on our side, helping member states at the front line, providing practical assistance with asylum applications, training and coordination in the building of a common european asylum system. with the agreement on the new mandate, with the development of easo into eas, not just a support office will finally become a full-fledged agency. it is also a crucial step towards a functioning and resilient asylum system. we are thus drawing lessons from the challenges of recent years and putting european solidarity on a firm footing. experts can now move more quickly to provide their vital operational and technical support. the pool is a crucial step forward. the role of the early warning system for refugee movements and trends in asylum applications, the important contribution to country reporting for national authorities, can be expanded. coordination with other european agencies and member states is finally being improved. the signal effect of the agreement goes far beyond the agency. it's more than an aging of our agencies. it is and must be the impetus for work on the overall package. it shows that we can come together if there is a willingness to compromise, if pragmatic solutions are sought. this is what we owe to our citizens: a europe that protects, that helps each other in challenging situations - as we have seen recently in lithuania, but also in greece, cyprus, italy and other countries. let us continue to do just that and finally move forward with the joint asylum and migration package.
mr president, the whole world has been affected by the virus epidemic, which has given a new face to our migration policy. this pandemic has shown that the disease does not discriminate between borders, nationalities or social status. only a comprehensive response, which leaves no one behind, will eradicate it, but this also prompts us to really review our policy. the covid-19 health crisis has been used by some states as a pretext to suspend the fundamental rights of asylum seekers and their reception in europe. it is time to widen legal pathways to the european union by introducing humanitarian visas for people in need of international protection as well as for those seeking a better future. by creating a new asylum agency, europe must move towards sustainable solutions that guarantee the fundamental rights of asylum seekers, in line with the rights of refugees, but also with our values of solidarity here in europe. european border management must guarantee these rights in all circumstances. we regret that the gender dimension is not mentioned in the agency's initial report. it follows that there is no consideration of the specific needs and vulnerability of underage girls, unaccompanied adolescent girls, women, the lgbti community and girls with disabilities. this invisibility exacerbates their insecurity and precariousness. the new agency's response implies that any asylum seeker can be received with dignity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu wants to set up an asylum agency to 'assist member states in crisis situations'. the result is quite obvious. the aim is to distribute asylum seekers more quickly and to speed up their applications. let's not kid ourselves. the uncontrolled immigration which has led to numerous terrorist attacks in the eu, countless murders and rapes, is only being perpetuated. what we really need is a deportation agency. the case of the gambia is more telling than ever. the gambian government refuses to take back rejected asylum seekers. in such a case, an expulsion agency could enter into negotiations with that government and impose appropriate sanctions if the negotiations fail. that could be sanctions against members of the government, economic sanctions, cutting off development aid and so on. the removal agency could take over the logistics and organisation of returns. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation of asylum seekers in the member states. this is only part of the immigration policy designed to destroy europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not over 1,000 people have been killed, nearly 9,000 arrested, and over 200,000 displaced or fled in myanmar since the military coup in february. i am not going to go into detail. i find it intolerable that the military in myanmar should benefit from eu trade preferences. the military is deeply corrupt and finances its brutal rule through its extensive network of corporations. so i expect the commission, i expect you to ensure that no military company benefits in any way from preferential access to our single market. and if that were the case, the commission - and i expect you to do so - would have to suspend the trade advantages. and i expect the council, which i do not even see represented here today, and the member states, to tighten the sanctions screw further. all military personnel responsible for the coup, who commit outrageous human rights violations, must be sanctioned. at the same time, we must consistently support civil society, democracy activists and persecuted minorities. the eu is not yet the diplomatic power that we could be, but we can already meet our responsibilities as an economic power today and we must stand with the people of myanmar.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm surprised and confused. we're in the house discussing the texas heartbeat act. has texas been admitted to the eu by now? did i miss something? it is already an excess of competence if we interfere with the abortion law in poland. how much more when it comes to texas? what are we even doing here? solomon once said: he who meddles in other people's affairs grabs a dog by the ears. let's hear the wise preacher. or do we want to escalate it to the point where it's like california? they're now banning their officers from traveling to texas. will we one day also ban our officials from travelling to poland? i would like to point out, however, with a heavy heart, something else. you want to promote reproductive health. why then do you want to abolish the product of reproduction, which, according to the definition of the ecj, is a human being, living after the fusion of an egg and a sperm cell? do you really want to give preference to a culture of death? do you really want to put women's rights above the right to life of an unborn child? i ask you for everything you hold dear: say goodbye to this culture of death. let the heartbeat of a child touch you. open your heart and listen to the beating of these children's hearts. give them a future. give us all joy and fulfillment. god will reward you.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would ask you to convey to president sassoli my wishes for his recovery. we are worlds apart politically, but i wish him well. ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago - we just heard - the european youth event took place in this house. the event was also attended by prominent representatives of femyso, the youth organization of the islamist muslim brotherhood. the muslim brotherhood is categorized by several german constitutional offices as clearly unconstitutional: its aims are diametrically opposed to democracy and the rule of law. mrs barley and mr karas, you are responsible for these events, according to the division of labour. may i ask why you are inviting junior terrorists and enemies of the constitution to the european parliament? the whole thing is scandalous also because in recent weeks several people in europe have been the victims of islamist attacks. in addition, a similar case was made a few years ago when the femm committee invited the muslim brotherhood youth organization. this house has rightly emphasized the protection of women in many, many meetings and especially the istanbul convention. but then, of all people, representatives of an organization are invited, which is one of the most anti-women and anti-democratic organizations on the planet. can anyone explain how that fits together and what line this house is following?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, why are the sellers of chemicals and agricultural technologies standing up against the european strategy 'from the farm to the fork'? because they feel the wind is changing and they are afraid. a new paradigm, one that meets citizens' expectations, is emerging. they are therefore afraid of being deprived of a milk cow called the cap. they fear losing a significant part of the €55 billion annual cap budget, which enriches them while impoverishing farmers and the environment. so i applaud this text, even if it is imperfect, and call for its wide adoption for healthy food, for biodiversity and the climate and for farmers' incomes, but also to show our citizens that europe can act in their interests by responding to their demands, with more transparency and for more responsibility of food actors. i therefore look forward to seeing this text implemented in european policies, and particularly in the future cap.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. madam president, commissioner, if farmers are the 'guardians of the earth', then the fishermen of the union, the people of the sea, are the 'guardians of the sea'. they deserve the high quality protein they bring to the union's diet to be fully integrated into a strategy that should be called 'from the sea and farm to fork'. they provide proteins that are fished or farmed under environmentally and socially sustainable conditions and with a lower carbon footprint than those produced on land; they are produced under the most stringent regulatory framework in the world. we must distinguish this value, protect it in markets with labelling, traceability and control: it is good for consumers and good for combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. we must take care of professional groups such as fishermen's associations and give them access to community aid. forgetting about aquaculture and fisheries in this strategy is a slap in the face to the common fisheries policy and an insult to those who work at sea every day to make sure we eat better.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in the last few months, we in the committee on the environment and agriculture have been closely examining the proposal for the 'from the farm to the table' strategy and have drawn up a compromise package which gives a picture of how we envisage the future of the european food supply. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. i can say that we are facing a herculean task in achieving the objectives of the strategy 'from the court to the table'. we can only achieve these goals if we work together with consumers. they ultimately play a key role, because it is our buying and consuming behaviour that shapes our food production in europe. but we can only meet this responsibility if we know how to eat a healthy, balanced and sustainable diet. that is why we need consumer education and consumer training, starting in the nursery. they are essential to a healthy lifestyle. but we also need good information to help us judge whether we are eating healthy and safe food. this includes a set of mandatory information. i also proposed the introduction of a qr code, which will allow us to obtain additional voluntary information. the 'from the court to the table' strategy is an incentive strategy, not a prohibition strategy. we're sending a clear message to our consumers. they are the ones who ultimately decide the change of sustainability. it also offers a great opportunity for our agriculture. but it is imperative that we do this through impact assessments. they are a necessary confidence-building measure. commissioner, vice-president timmermans has betrayed all confidence in this house. the fact that the study was withheld and not published has destroyed the confidence of farmers and of many of us in this parliament. we need the information, and the withholding was an unding and destroyed a lot, a lot of things here in parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the explanatory statement of the committees responsible for this report, 'from the court to the table', calls for (literally) 'agriculture policy to be the most ambitious project of the current mandate of the eu commission', which is climate neutrality. so they plan to drive agriculture into the wall, like electricity, squadroned by morality, orientation and the fact that knives and forks are the most important weapons in the fight against climate change, and of course rightly resent modern crop protection and fertilizers, all of which would be dangerous to human health. don't worry, the farmers won't be able to afford the fertilizer anytime soon. and when you have done away with the technological agriculture that many here despise - agriculture that was once hailed as a green revolution, that was able and still is able to feed a rapidly growing world population - then, yes, then their climate-warming knives and forks will just hit an empty plate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what we eat and how we produce it has a direct impact on human health, the environment and animal health. the european commission has recognised the impact of intensive farming on these very issues with the 'from the farm to the table' strategy, and as the european parliament we must support these ambitions - the goals of reducing the use of pesticides, antibiotics and fertilisers, strengthening organic farming and animal husbandry, and also better informing consumers about the nutritional value and sustainability of products. the strategy thus turns a number of important screws to make the food system more sustainable, with concrete instruments to follow. but we must also be honest: without a change in the cap, this strategy will remain a very small screw in a shaky system that threatens our livelihoods. so let us continue to strengthen this important strategy, but let us not stop at that!
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report on the future of social policy and employment is before us today. this report is 13 times about the green deal, 13 times about gender equality - not to be confused with equality between men and women. it is also an important issue, of course, and of course women and ecology. i am not sure that this is a good idea. what is this really about? the green deal is deindustrialising europe, destroying millions of value-added jobs and creating poverty. and then to alleviate that poverty, trillions are pumped into the welfare system over the next few decades -- trillions that are not backed by anything, not wealth, not economic growth, money that is simply generated, money that comes out of nowhere. everyone seems to love it here, and no one's surprised. the majority of this house has moved on and it seems unstoppable. it wants eco-socialism - that's what it's all about. i would remind you that socialism has never brought wealth and freedom to any country in the world, but only poverty and lack of freedom.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. thank you to the rapporteur! the report really does contain everything we need for reconstruction and indeed for greater resilience in the economy and in society! this is in the pandemic -- many have said this -- more important than ever. we have a compass. our compass is the pillar of social rights, which must be applied more strongly here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we put the welfare of our citizens first. the welfare of the citizens is only possible with good work it must be the focus. and good work, ladies and gentlemen, can only be achieved with a strong role for the social partners, with more people covered by collective agreements guaranteeing good wages and good work. so it's important that we don't just keep this whole human welfare thing as a buzzword, but that we actually make sure that there's a corresponding progress pact that actually does that, instead of a technocratic semester. that's why the message is right: start here, and don't roll backwards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. asbestos is a disease. asbestos has caused an incredible amount of misery, and asbestos kills. thank god asbestos has been banned since 2005. and thank god, most of the public buildings have been renovated by now. but with the green deal and the coming wave of cleanup, this problem is now coming back into our consciousness. and how does the eu intend to respond? it's the limit again, and you just have to change it. the number has not been said by anyone today. that's quite interesting. the limit is now 100,000 fibres per cubic metre, and it's going to be reduced to 1,000 fibres per cubic metre -- nobody mentioned that today, interestingly -- from 100,000 to 1,000. and what does the european construction industry's lobby say about this? this limit is illusory. it's not even a rule! it cannot be controlled by man, that is, it cannot be implemented. the current limit is not applicable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you won't be able to help the master craftsman. you can't help the subcontractor like this. this is pure dream dancing. let's get back to the real world.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the culture and creative sector is still in the biggest crisis in its existence. thousands of european artists, creators and performers have lost their income. those people across europe have used up all their savings, they have sold their instruments and tools and they still are living from day to day without clarity what comes tomorrow, or if they can put food on the table for their families. and yet the political response throughout europe’s member states has been inadequate to deal with this tremendous crisis that culture currently faces. the freedom of expression, the freedom of the arts, the freedom of speech, the freedom of culture is at stake. we can have very nice laws, like article 13 of the charter of fundamental rights, that grant the freedom of arts and the expressions. but when artists, performers, authors, creatives are struggling to survive, those rules mean nothing. and yes, we do have governments in the eu that use the pandemic to defund the sector, to destroy the opposition and to silence their critics. when this is happening in the union, the eu must act to protect artists, performers and the whole sector. the eu must become the guardian of culture, of freedom. in this light, we, the european parliament, have worked collectively to present this report that draws the attention to the horrific situation of the cultural and creative sectors and industries ccs, as well as propose improvements. i am thankful for the cooperation that we have with the rapporteur, ms semedo, as well as the other colleagues and, of course, the ccft. this cooperation shows that we have crossed paths and shared an understanding of the risks that we are facing when culture is under distress. however, i believe we also need to go further and we need to go beyond what the treaty offers the eu to do. if we want the eu to be the guardian of culture, we need to extend the competences and weave a safety net that offers social security, health care and pensions to all creatives in the eu. we need to see more investments from the member states like the two per cent that we propose from the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) money, and we need to get the possibility to support artists and performers with funding, even if they are in a position in their country. only then, we will see a recovery from the situation, and only then, culture will truly be free again.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the eu is therefore looking to help the culture sector, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus, get back on its feet financially. it was not corona itself, but the hopelessly exaggerated measures against corona, and my conclusion is: i am not afraid of corona. i am afraid of governments that are becoming more and more intrusive and that are reducing basic rights to privileges. but as so often happens, this is not about the cultural sector. it is again about the eu's agenda. the eu wants to use the cultural sector as an expression of humanity and democracy, to create a common european identity, to pave the way for an ever closer european union, and even considers itself the creator of a european public - what a hubris! an eu which believes that it must educate its citizens like minors, and thus create a new human being, is inhuman. the european union is not democratic if it eliminates the principle of popular sovereignty by increasing the number of its members. the european union, which intends to dissolve the cultural identities of the peoples of europe in favour of a single european identity, is trampling on the right of the peoples to self-determination. do you know what word doesn't appear in the report at all? freedom for you! not once, not once. but who's surprised? freedom cannot exist under the brussels dictate of the brave new world. freedom would be the end of this eu. well, my choice is clear: i choose freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr prime minister, in a very fine legal lecture you explained where the limits of eu law and the sovereignty of the member states lie. no one disputes that eu law has primacy where the eu has competence. but the eu cannot decide for itself what its competences are. the national constitutional courts are responsible for this. that is what the german constitutional court says, mr weber, and that is why the polish constitutional court was able to say that the organisation of the judiciary is not part of eu law. the only way to dispute this is to say that the eu should decide for itself what its competences are. those who do not want the nation states to be sovereign, but who want the sovereign superstate, also want the ecj to be able to decide alone what is within the eu's competence and what is not. but this europe is not the europe of the treaties, and it is not the europe that the people want - neither in poland nor elsewhere. because you're a historian: poland saved europe from vienna in 1683. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union.
mr president, i wish to welcome the prime minister to the european people’s chamber, to the heart of european democracy that we fight hard for. the independence of the judiciary has to be an essential part of every member state. it’s the european court of justice who said that – not in a polish case, but in a portuguese case. why do i stress that? it’s because you keep keeping up this double—standard narrative. it’s just not true. the polish justice minister wants to sue germany now because of our election procedure for judges. just go ahead. you have a very good example of the independence of the judiciary in germany, with the german court ruling that you mentioned. the decision by the german court of justice, the constitutional court, is a good example. it ruled against the government, which fought heavily for a different outcome. in the polish case you see the opposite. you see the polish government asking for a decision and the constitutional court delivering it. we’ve seen that also with the us, when it came to the abortion law. the polish constitutional court was designed and organised to serve the government, not to control it, and that is the difference. in its judgment, the german constitutional court stressed the primacy of eu law explicitly. it has never declared parts of the european treaties unconstitutional. no constitutional court has ever done that. how can you say that others get away with it and poland doesn’t? germany is facing an infringement procedure for this constitutional court ruling, and rightfully so. if the commission takes action in the german case, of course it has to in the polish case, which is in so many ways more severe. it is not the eu applying double standards, it is the polish government acting like no other. you’re trying to redefine democratic values in a way that you get rid of any sort of control – of what democrats call the separation of powers – and that is against the treaties. so now you want to get rid of the treaties, too – and that is anti—democratic. the polish people deserve our greatest respect. they contributed so much to the fall of the iron curtain and are an important part of this european union. they want to be part of it by a vast majority. let’s make it clear: it is the polish government who is putting their european future at risk, and nobody else.
mr president, i am a huge fan of poland. just recently, i travelled in my constituency in brandenburg, the constituency of ska keller as well, along the polish border and looked at cross-border cooperation. i can’t wait until we in my hometown of berlin get a memorial for the victims of nazis who were polish. i work tirelessly with your colleagues here in the parliament to strengthen us, as the european union, in the face of the threat from eastern europe, those colleagues whom i respect as diplomats, but who today behaved as clowns. but the point is that we cannot project power internationally if we do not have power within ourselves, power of democracy, power of integrity and power of unity. and this is what it is about. it is not just about the primacy of eu law. it is about what you have been doing with your government for years. how can we confront global authoritarians if we don’t have independent courts and we don’t have a judiciary, and the judiciary has to complain to us here, coming to the european parliament?
mr president, poland’s top court decided it can set aside eu law when that law either exceeds the eu’s powers, as limited by the treaties, or violates the polish constitution. the judgment is clear, concise and correct. the eu is not sovereign and, according to article 5 of the eu treaty, eu law only has primacy where the member states delegated powers to the eu. where powers are unclear, however, the eu cannot be a judge in its own cause. the national higher courts therefore must needs enforce the limits of the eu treaties because the member states alone, as sovereign democratic entities, can define their conferred powers to ensure the eu does not judicially extend its own powers by competence creep. the polish judgment is almost identical with the lisbon judgment of the german verfassungsgericht, which too found, first, that the eu is neither sovereign, nor does it enjoy the same legitimacy as member states, and, second, asserted its own power to review eu acts if they are ultra vires or violate the german basic law. there’s one difference, however. whereas poland takes its own highest court seriously, the german verfassungsgericht was simply ignored when, last year, it held the european central bank had violated the eu treaties. it seems poland is defending the rule of law here, while germany is ignoring it.
mr president, madam president of the commission, mr prime minister! the european parliament has been used as a platform for a complicated debate on the legal hierarchy and for domestic political gains. but the question is quite simple: can we as poland's european partners be sure that the rules agreed upon jointly are being respected in poland and that the rule of law applies in poland or not? and the answer is no, we can't be sure. for years you've been grinding the law in poland, putting pressure on independent judges. you deliberately ignore the judgments of the european court of justice and now you want to decide at your own discretion when european law applies and when it does not. mr. morawiecki, stop with the lighting! this isn't a game. you are sleepwalking towards leaving the eu against the will of your european friends and above all against the will of the polish people. the eu is not a self-service shop. if you want to stick to eu law at your whim, you cannot remain a member of the eu. that would be a disaster for poland. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister that i think the defining line of his speech today was please do not disturb me. i think you, prime minister, have made it very clear how much your government, how much your party, has radicalised. you see it from the allies that you have here in the house, basically, the enemies of the european union, but you see it also by the refusal to engage in a real debate with what is the large majority of this house and the political families in the european union. democracy is not just that the majority can do whatever it wants, basically calling everyone that disagrees with you a communist. none of that is democracy. sehr geehrte frau kommissionspräsidentin, sie haben ja heute deutlich gesehen, wohin uns sechs jahre dialog mit dieser regierung, wohin uns dutzende vertragsverletzungsverfahren, wohin uns ein verschlepptes artikel-7-verfahren gebracht haben. sie sagen, sie sind sehr besorgt, und sie nennen optionen. aber ich bin besorgt, dass es, wenn wir nicht handeln, bald an rechtsstaat und an demokratie in der europäischen union nichts mehr zu verteidigen gibt.
mr president, i say to the prime minister: thanks for coming, but i really wonder, why did you come? did you come here to shift the narrative with the help of the claps from the far-right? is this really what you’re trying to do? first, your puppet chord attacks the basis of this house, the treaties. second, you write a letter saying that the eu is turning into an autocracy. and third, you come and talk here about legal order, while you’ve been trying to curtail the freedom of your judges for years. i really don’t understand why you came here today, and i think soon you will see that your advisers are wrong and that you have gone far too far with what you have been doing. the polish people do not want to leave the european union. we cannot, commission president, have money flow to a government that does not respect the treaties and therefore we cannot control where it is going. so i ask you to under no circumstance accept the polish recovery plan and make sure that this tribunal and the judgment are repealed.
mr president, the eu stands for constitutional rights, human rights, the rule of law and democracy, which it is built on. this is the basis for peace and prosperity. it is the task of the commission and parliament to safeguard this. prime minister, your actions are strengthening the rule of law in the eu and our understanding of why it is so important to safeguard these tasks at the eu level. you are making us all understand why we need a stronger procedure in the eu. we are going to stand with the polish people and rely on the commission to act on its duty, and nothing will change this. we are not blaming poland nor its citizens. we are defending them against the bullying violence that you, prime minister, are leading.
president, mr morawiecki, four years before you were born, it was already established that european law takes precedence over national law. that was in the 1964 costa v. e.n.e.l. case. the fact that the polish constitutional court, with the support of your government, is now putting national law above european law is a serious blow to the backbone of european law. your lineup is basically what we call two-bit-eating. on the one hand, you are naturally keen to benefit from european subsidies. on the other hand, you are using european law as you see fit. that is unacceptable. we're in the same club together. we agreed on the same rules, and if you want to stay in that club, you're gonna follow those rules.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister morawiecki for the explanations he tried to deliver today. but, unfortunately, prime minister, i have to say that your party and your government’s actions speak much louder than your words. you could not possibly expect us to stand by, applauding while you fill the courts with politically appointed judges, while you try to muzzle the press, and while you trample on our european values and question the rulings and the supremacy of the european court of justice. 88% of all poles want to stay in the eu, but you and your government seem to be determined to lead them towards an awful kind of polexit. today, i stand in solidarity with those 88% of the polish people that want to see poland thrive and take back the leading role they deserve in the european union, in solidarity with my polish friends that prefer to choose to thrive inside the european union rather than taking steps back into a darkness that we all regret. prime minister, you should not be happy when the far right applauds you. you should question yourself and listen to your people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now facing a round of talks with the speakers of the institutions. we have a speaker's schedule here. it is not customary for the representatives of the institutions to be interrupted. i've been briefed on what happened this morning. of course, we have set ourselves a certain amount of speaking time. i also understand that in a debate of this magnitude, many questions are raised that one would like to have answered. i would be very grateful if i did not have to interrupt speakers and if we were to follow the practice in this house of not extending the speaking time that is generally expected.
prime minister of poland. once again, mr president! madam president! there's been a lot of talk here about the importance of the rule of law. yes, i mean that the rule of law is a principle and a value that is as important for warsaw as it is for all other capitals. and that's not just a principle of the treaties, that's also a principle of our constitution. there's no difference of opinion between us here. it is a question of whether, under the pretext of the rule of law, member states may also be required to do things which are not provided for in the treaties. you've made very little reference to this in a lot of your speeches, and this, i think, is the clue, is the very core of what i'm saying. can you operate ultra vires? can we go beyond the powers that the founders of the treaties, the member states, have given to the european union? i don't think you can. another thing: i have heard from many people here and i have heard for some time that court decisions are written for political wishes. show me one such sentence, one that was written on political request! and i can tell you that your colleagues from the civic platform, that is, the ppe party, are responsible for such a sin, because there is a famous case from the time of mr tusk's government, when a call was made to a district court judge, who reacted in this way to that call, to write this verdict de facto on request. that's the truth about those days. the polish constitutional court has never held that the provisions of the treaties in the union are unconstitutional in their entirety. that's an important part of this debate. i want to emphasize that again. on the contrary, poland fully respects the treaties, which is why the polish constitutional tribunal has found that only a very specific interpretation of certain provisions of the treaty, which may be the result of recent case law of the cjeu, is unconstitutional. as a result of this case law, we could have two categories of judges, we could have millions of invalid verdicts in a moment! is that exactly what you want? i hope not. ladies and gentlemen! here, in the speeches of my polish colleagues, there was a note that is completely foreign to me, that they are ashamed of poland, that they have complexes associated with the fact that poland is ruled by law and justice. ladies and gentlemen, i am proud of poland, proud of what we have achieved, proud of what we have done together for poland, and we have no such complexes. one interesting thread, which i'll briefly comment on, was the thread of president putin. well, when the representative of germany, the representatives of the ppe party, who are working on nord stream 2 together with mr putin, which leads to very high gas prices (this nord stream 2, which the former foreign minister of the previous government, who is sitting here, said is the second molotov-ribbentrop pact, the same nord stream 2), in such a situation, at the same time accuses us that we are in any way leading poland to disassociate from the european union through our policy, this is profoundly untrue, because i would like to emphasize that among those 88% of supporters of the european union, who were mentioned here, half are our voters. these are our constituents. ladies and gentlemen! and here we have this interesting comparison: is there a law of force or a law of force? that's right. we, the poles, are in favor of the force of law, the force of the rule of law, not the law of force, not the law of blackmail, instruction and paternalism against poland. there was a question about the supreme court disciplinary chamber. yes, we are going to abolish it because the mechanisms that have been put in place - the mechanisms of judicial accountability - have not met our expectations. in fact, these decisions were not enforced against judges who had ruled contra legem, in the face of a clear breach of professional responsibility by judges. and i hope that the new procedures will also be acceptable to everyone, because i think we all care about judicial accountability, including judges. and the judges, i think they expect it. ladies and gentlemen! thank you so much for all the voices i've heard here. in conclusion, i'll just say that today is such a symbolic day, october 19th, very important for poland. in 1984, father jerzy popiełuszko was murdered in the village of złotka. solidarity and solidarity fighting, of which i was a member, were fighting for freedom and democracy at the time, and some of the speakers here were on the completely different side. i think it's also symbolic of where they sit today and where we sit.
president of the commission. – well, by coming with nordstrom 2 your arguments are not getting better, you’re just escaping the debate. for european democracy to function there must be respect for common rules and principles, common institutions and independent justice. don’t try to divert. that’s the debate right now here, about the rule of law and the primacy of european law. don’t try to run away and to escape that debate. and undermining any of these essential pillars puts our european democracy at risk. we cannot let this happen. we will not let this happen. this is a matter that affects us all as european institutions and as member states. diese debatte zeigt, wie ernst die situation ist. es ist, wenn wir auf den kern der debatte gehen und nicht versuchen, durch andere debatten abzulenken, ein einmaliger vorgang, dass ein verfassungsgericht eines mitgliedstaates artikel des europäischen vertrages infrage stellt. das trifft mitten ins mark der rechtsstaatlichkeit, das hat es so noch nie gegeben, und darüber diskutieren wir. hinzu kommt, dass dieses verfassungsgericht, das die axt an die europäischen verträge legt, selbst in seiner legitimität infrage steht. das zeigt die ganze tragweite! darum geht es hier heute bei dem, worüber wir diskutieren. (zwischenrufe) ich habe die handlungsempfehlungen und möglichkeiten bei diesem gerichtsurteil, das ja nur wenige tage alt ist, die der kommission und damit auch den mitgliedstaaten und dem parlament zur verfügung stehen, dargelegt. es ist hier – und darauf möchte ich auch eingehen – mehrfach die frage nach dem aufbaufonds gestellt worden. auch hier sind die regeln ganz klar. wir haben festgelegt, und zwar gesetzlich: es gibt investitionen, aber die sind gekoppelt an reformen. die reformen müssen die länderspezifischen empfehlungen erfüllen. und eine lang währende länderspezifische empfehlung für polen ist die wiederherstellung der unabhängigkeit der justiz. dazu zählen der abbau der disziplinarkammer, der abbau des disziplinarregimes, die wiedereinsetzung der unrechtmäßig entlassenen richterinnen und richter. das ist die grundvoraussetzung. ich habe eben gehört, dass sie das planen. tun sie es! hohes haus! wir werden die rechtsstaatlichkeit und die verträge der europäischen union verteidigen – mit allen mitteln. diese rechtsstaatlichkeit sieht aber klare prozessschritte vor, und wir werden sie einhalten: informationsgewinnung, rede und gegenrede, stellungnahme und gegenstellungnahme – all das verlangt der europäische gerichtshof. dann haben wir einen fall richtig aufgebaut, und dann sind wir auch erfolgreich, wie es gerade die jüngsten urteile des vertragsverletzungsverfahren gezeigt haben. wir haben noch nie ein verfahren zur rechtsstaatlichkeit verloren, und dabei wird es bleiben. deshalb die gründlichkeit, und ich bin sicher, dass dieses hohe haus mich dabei unterstützen wird. ja, die demokratie und die rechtsstaatlichkeit sind langsamer als die autokratien, weil sie alle anhören, bevor ein urteil gefällt wird oder eine lösung gefunden wird. aber genau das unterscheidet uns ja von den autokraten und den diktatoren dieser welt. die verfahren sind fair und begründet und legitim und kraftvoll. deshalb ist die europäische rechtsordnung auch so überzeugend, und wir werden sie verteidigen – mit den menschen in polen.
the chairman of the council. madam president, madam prime minister! ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! i have followed closely the heated debate today, expressed in the form of views. i can assure you that the presidency and the council attach the utmost importance to respect for the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. the institutions of the european union and the member states share the responsibility to respect, protect and promote our common values, as enshrined in the treaties. i would like to reaffirm that the principle of the primacy of european union law is the foundation of the union and a precondition for respecting the rule of law within the union. the presidency will do everything in its power to uphold these principles and will lead the debate on the rule of law at all levels, in line with the presidency's priorities presented here in the european parliament at the july european parliament session. thank you again for your attention.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not the debate has clearly shown how widespread the crisis of the rule of law and democracy has become in the member states and here in parliament, and how widespread the unculture of anti-democratic thinking and political action has become in the member states and here in parliament. the method is always the same: distraction from the subject, throwing of candles, evasion of the subject in order to conceal the political objectives. the objectives are to undermine the rules of the game for democracy and the rule of law, to undermine the independence of the judiciary, to restrict the freedom of the press and to restrict the exercise of fundamental rights for minorities, for refugees, for women. all this is the result of an authoritarian transformation which is taking place not only in poland but also in other member states. and we can argue about everything -- about social policy, about economic policy, about climate justice, about digitization, about foreign policy -- but we have to agree on issues of democracy and the rule of law.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i was really wondering what the prime minister was trying to achieve today in this plenary because he hasn’t really presented himself as a prime minister of one of the most important member states of the european union. prime minister, you’ve been coming here more like a leader of a small party in a heated election campaign and i’m not sure that’s the image you want to give here. where are your ideas of how to get out of this crisis? i haven’t heard any ideas about how you want to go forward, and that seems to be the road right into the abyss. and i’m very proud of all our colleagues here across the room from poland, who stood up today here for the rule of law in their own country, as well as the european union overall. i’m very proud of you, colleagues. and let’s never forget that poland is much more than peace. the polish people deserve our solidarity, so let’s keep on working for the rule of law, and i very much hope that the commission is going to be very strong, but also the council indeed, and we’re going to debate that tomorrow, because they also have to do their job. all of us together. but that also includes the polish government.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all, i think that many here should learn lessons. the first is parliamentarism. it is normal for members of the extreme right to applaud mr morawiecki, but for the prime minister to bring a crowd of officials to applaud him in an address to the house is disrespectful to this house. anyway, i'm going to the content. i'm going to the content. europe is rich. and europe is rich because it is diverse, because we are different, because we have different ideologies, because we have different beliefs, because we have different cultures, and that is what makes us rich. it makes us rich to be able to agree among so much difference, as we have shown here today. but let me ask you something. it is not patriotic to put your country on the edge of the abyss, as this government is doing. those are not the patriots. patriotism is defending your country so that it remains part of the european project, as we have heard from many comrades from different political groups in poland today. and that's what we're going to do. since the difference keep understanding each other. it's more than that. a red thread that binds us all. it looks invisible, but it's strong. it is respect for the fundamental values of the european union: solidarity, justice, tolerance, respect. that's what makes us strong. solidarity is born in the army.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 21 october 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. it is well established that the orbán government and the current polish government systematically undermine the rule of law and democracy, and that these steps not only disregard the democratic rights of decent polish and hungarian citizens, but also the fundamental norms and legislation of the union. the functioning of the european union, the cooperation of its member states and the rights of its citizens are guaranteed by standards, so the dismantling of the rule of law and democracy, whether it be the re-writing of hungarian electoral laws or the decision of the constitutional court illegally conspired by the polish ruling party, sooner or later endanger the existence of the entire union. when we fight for the rule of law, we fight for citizens to prevent the state power from acting contrary to the fundamental values of the european union, that is, abusing its power. but now we must not only fight for the hungarian and polish citizens, but for all european citizens. this is why the rule of law procedure must be accelerated and why the commission must immediately use all the means at its disposal!
in writing. on 7 october 2021, the polish constitutional court, declared illegitimate for its lack of impartiality and its direct subordination to the pis government, ruled that the provisions of the treaty on european union are incompatible with the polish constitution and that the court of justice of the european union interferes with the polish judicial system and violates the principle of the rule of law, the primacy of the polish constitution and the principle of respect for national sovereignty in the process of european integration. the commission has also proposed that the polish authorities should be given the possibility to impose a fine on the applicant for breach of the obligation to provide information. this decision has serious consequences for the legal order of the union and the protection of the rule of law in poland and has therefore been rejected by the european commission, the european parliament and the member states. i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission and the council to take strict measures against poland in order to restore the primacy of european law and to ensure the separation of powers and the rule of law in poland.
in writing. the debate we are constantly having about poland should be approached, in this house and in the institutions, with less hypocrisy. the european union, having failed to convince the states and its citizens through the goodness of the results, has continually tried to achieve integration by forcing the treaties, a strategy which in my opinion is inadequate. to refuse to acknowledge the continuing forcing and the mistakes made over the past thirty years in pursuing the process of integration is to refuse to understand and to refuse to accept that the situation of tension between the eu and poland in which we find ourselves today is precisely the direct consequence of this wrong attitude. i am convinced that if in the future we are able to accept that it is the member states and national constitutions that give legitimacy to the eu institutions, and not the other way around, european integration will benefit from this.
i would like to inform the honourable members that, for this debate, a single round of speakers of the political groups is foreseen.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it’s a pleasure to present to you today the 2022 commission work programme. let me begin by thanking you for a very fruitful cooperation in the preparation of this important document. in line with well-established practice, president von der leyen met the conference of presidents to exchange views on the priorities for the next year, and i had the pleasure of exchanging views, which are further discussed in dedicated meetings with the conference of committee chairs and the conference of presidents. in addition, my fellow commission vice—presidents, commissioner hahn, and i discussed these priorities, based on the letter of intent and the state of the union speech with the conference of committee chairs just two weeks ago. the past 12 months have been eventful, to say the least, and we have had to learn, adapt and deploy our collective resources, but we have produced tangible results. over 70% of europe’s adult population is now fully vaccinated, thanks to our common approach to vaccine purchases. with the help of the digital certificate, we have regained many of our freedoms within the union. thanks in no small part to our joint effort in getting next generation eu off the ground, economic recovery in europe is stronger than initially predicted. yet the covid—19 pandemic has demanded great sacrifices from our citizens – and young people in particular. to acknowledge these sacrifices, we will declare 2022 the european year of youth. to finally overcome this pandemic, we also need greater efforts on vaccines – in the eu as vaccination campaigns have stalled in some member states, but also further afield where the entire global community must pull its weight. the other great challenge of our time has also had an impact in the past year, reconfirming the importance of our long—term priorities. i’m talking about the devastating effects of climate change, which were visible across the union and the entire world. recent events in afghanistan underlined the need for the eu to develop its joint defence capacity, and we have seen how quickly our democratic principles can come under pressure and how we can never stop fighting for them. it is in this context that we have drawn up the 2022 work programme. we plan to adopt to the outstanding key initiatives to deliver the six headline ambitions of president von der leyen’s political guidelines. this will enable us to emerge stronger from the crisis, to accelerate the twin green and digital transitions and build a fairer and more resilient society, in short to make europe stronger together. as the coming year will mark the mid-term of this mandate, we need to leave sufficient time for co-legislators to finalise the negotiations well in time for the european elections in 2024. let me give you a few examples of key initiatives planned for 2022. the green deal continues to be our growth strategy, and further action is needed to meet our ambitious target of carbon neutrality by 2050. we will therefore propose a certification framework for carbon removals to boost their sustainable deployment and create a new business model to reward land managers. to deliver on our zero-pollution action plan, we will tackle surface and groundwater pollutants, as well as ambient air quality. we are determined to continue making europe fit for the digital age. while the pandemic has accelerated digitalisation around the globe, notably the use of digital solutions for work and for education, it has also exposed shortcomings and dependencies in the eu. a european chips act will help foster an innovative and state—of—the—art european ecosystem for semi—conductors to develop new markets and prevent current supply shortages from recurring in the future. all citizens need to benefit from successful digital transition. therefore, we will propose a package of recommendations on digital in school and higher education, and new measures on multimodal digital mobility services. a workforce with strong digital skills will be key for our small and medium—sized enterprises and, in addition, we want to find ways to facilitate access to capital. we should also ensure that citizens and businesses benefit fully from the advantages of the single market, even in times of crisis. that is why we will propose a new single market emergency instrument. for a socially fair european economy, firmly based on the european pillar of social rights, we need concrete actions to support and protect workers. we will propose an initiative to protect workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we share the parliament’s sense of urgency on this issue and will examine the legislative own-initiative report in great detail. we will also adopt a recommendation on a minimum income. to support a stronger europe in the world, we will continue our efforts to support the rules—based multilateral global order. along with our global gateway initiative, fostering transport, energy and telecommunication links with partners across the globe, we will work towards developing a strategic partnership with the gulf. this is a region of great importance for our union on a number of regional and global issues. we will therefore present an action plan on international ocean governance that will confirm the eu’s ambition to lead the quest to deliver the 2030 agenda on sustainable development goals. we also propose a new strategy on international energy engagement with the goal of moving away from fossil fuel imports and towards green energy solutions. alongside initiatives on education and security policy under the headline ambition promoting our european way of life, we will propose a comprehensive care strategy, from early childhood care and education to long-term care. we will also focus on citizens’ health by updating the recommendation on cancer screening, reflecting the latest available scientific evidence. under the new push for european democracy, we will continue to support the crucial role played by a free and vibrant media landscape in our democratic society and adopt the european media freedom act. we will also further strengthen the rights of all children by proposing an initiative on the recognition of parenthood between member states and continue our work on equality by strengthening the role and independence of equality bodies. the 2022 work programme will not only be about the new initiatives listed in annex i. with the full implementation of the ‘one in, one out’ approach, we will ensure that, when we introduce new, unavoidable burdens, we systematically and proactively would seek to reduce existing ones. this gives additional importance to the initiatives identified for evaluation and revisions in annex ii. better regulation will also continue to support sustainability and the digital transformation, by focusing on the ‘do no significant harm’ and ‘digital-by-default’ principles. in total, we are announcing 42 flagship initiatives this year, grouped under 32 policy objectives or packages. under the regulatory fitness and performance programme, refit, we identified 26 significant pieces of legislation proposed for evaluation or revision. we have examined all proposals currently awaiting decision by the parliament and the council, and we are proposing to withdraw six of them. some of them do not match this commission’s political ambition. for others, we will reflect on more efficient ways to fulfil their objectives, in consultation with this house and the council. in closing, let me underline that good policy making is a team effort between all institutions, member states and key partners throughout the policy cycle. particularly as we will enter the second half of this mandate next year, constructive negotiations on important pieces of legislation will be paramount if we want to deliver for our citizens, businesses and stakeholders during these years marked by deep transformation. i thank you for your hard work and spirit of cooperation, and i very much look forward to your interventions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner for the very good cooperation we have and remind all of us that 2022 is the year when we have all the necessary instruments we need to realise the european policies. i mean we have the mff, next generation eu, all the policies linked to the budget, and all of them based on european solidarity and dedicated to more resilience in europe. let me express on behalf of the epp group what we expect in 2022. we expect, especially in the commission’s programme, more resilience regarding foreign interference and the attacks on democratic values and our way of life. we expect also reinforcement of our fight against corruption, money laundering, the fight in favour of the rule of law, which is the cornerstone of european democracy. and we cannot forget that in this year, 2022, we will still be fighting the consequences of the covid crisis, so especially we have to think about the citizens and how to improve their daily lives. the citizens need to be confident and we need to show the citizens that we care about their real fears and their concerns. i think that we can just list some of the elements which are really important for us. all of them are in fact linked to the eu recovery strategy. first, the question of the recovery strategy is mainly about people, and this is mainly about the added jobs, so that’s why we need to reinforce employment, to keep existing jobs, to create new jobs. we cannot also forget the question of the brain drain, which i think is also of interest to the european commission and this is one of the processes which we can face in europe and which is reinforced by covid. we have to take care of the people who lost their jobs, who are losing their normal way of life, who are concerned about their children and their future, and of course the people concerned with their pension and the eldest members of the family. so this is also about the green deal and we cannot forget that farmers especially cannot be victims of the green deal, and the people living in the big cities. we have to remember digitalisation, which is also about recovery – digitalisation as a part of recovery – so that’s why we have to think about the whole society. we are ready to cooperate with the commission and to cooperate successfully, and we will support the commission in all these fields but we will be very active in working with you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we think of the results of the vaccination strategy, which are allowing us to put european citizens in health safety, or the progress of the european green deal, with the presentation of the "fit for 55" package for carbon neutrality, up to the action plan of the social pillar and the work on the digital transition. not to mention the next generation eu, an extraordinary tool for the recovery of our economies. these first years of the commission's mandate have put our progressive agenda into practice and now we must also proceed with the programme which the commission is presenting to us today for 2022. we believe that the post-pandemic future cannot be based on business as usual but rather requires a radical rethinking of our society and economy, putting sustainable development, health, social progress and gender equality at the centre of what we want to see more of in the commission's initiatives. i would like to reiterate the main points on which we will be characterizing our political initiative. i shall start with social policy, which is not on the 2022 agenda. commitments appropriate to the context created by the pandemic; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. these are the measures needed to ensure decent working conditions and to keep pace with the changes taking place. i now turn to fiscal policy and economic governance. the covid crisis has called for the suspension of budgetary rules and highlighted the need for their reform. the public consultation on the stability pact, which we have opened today, is therefore a good thing, with the aim of ending the season of austerity. for the same principle, it is also time to introduce a permanent fiscal capacity of the eurozone, building on the successful experiences of next generation eu and the sure instrument. on the rule of law, we will never tire of stressing that words must now be matched by concrete actions, starting with the full application of the rule of law conditionality regulation, which this parliament strongly wants. i hope, in conclusion, that the commission will not lose the momentum it has shown so far. the socialist and democratic group intends to do its part by continuing to press constructively for the improvement of the commission's work programme for next year and the years to come, in the interests of the european citizens and the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, addressing vice-president šefčovič i wish to start by saying, commissioner, that you haven’t talked all too much about climate and biodiversity, which is still the most pressing issue for our mid-term and long-term societal problematics, and i know this was part of the work programme last year but the work is still not done. science clearly tells us that we should even be more ambitious or look even deeper into the root causes and change even faster. the commission was proposing the green deal, was relatively ambitious, especially compared to what we’ve seen from national governments and other regions of the world. and please be assured that you will have our backing in staying straight and staying firm on pushing through the proposed legislation against a lot of resistance, which i see coming very strongly from all kinds of stakeholders. i sign up to what my colleague from the conservatives, mr aubry, said on dependency on fossil fuels. we see very clearly our weaknesses and our vulnerability that we have in depending on fossil fuel imports, especially from russia at the moment, as we see the skyrocketing energy prices that are linked to some geopolitical games played by that side. so becoming energy autonomous or as autonomous as possible, please put that at the forefront of your political proposals. and then you tackled health. well, health is an issue that is related to global warming, but health is also related to many other topics towards environmental protection. and i really want to say a word against what mr aubry said, that farmers are endangered by or victims of the farm to fork strategy or environmental policies. it’s exactly the opposite. if we go environmental, then this is helping the farmers. and i also sign up to the proposal to put in the forefront the question of foreign interference, of fake news, that is actually contradicting our democratic processes, which are at the heart of our decision-making and of the european union. and just last but not least, we need to find legal ways of tackling migration and adopting our trade policies so less people have to flee from their homes. this is a key issue for the next working programme, i think.
madam president, mr vice-president šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change, social exclusion and unemployment: these are the priorities our citizens highlighted in the latest eurobarometer survey. the commission's programme for next year certainly includes initiatives which, however, require a fundamental change to be put into practice: the commission has already made a number of proposals to reform the budgetary rules, which have long been regarded as inadequate by almost everyone in europe. the commission is presenting a communication today to launch this review. as the five star movement we have always called for a rethink of the entire system of economic governance in the union and this is an objective which now, thanks also to our efforts, can and must finally be achieved. the 2023 deadline does not give us much time to reach a consensus, we need to move quickly to define a european golden rule for green, digital and social investment and to radically reform the indicators that are currently used in the european semester to complement the sustainable development goals. if we are not able to design policies that help people to preserve their dignity - as the nobel prize winners banerjee and duflo remind us - the confidence of citizens is at risk of being permanently undermined. so it's not just numbers, we have to give back the economy and the dignity to our fellow citizens.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would also like to thank all honourable members for their interventions, for their comments, and i can say also for their support as i was feeling it in most of the remarks which we just concluded. if you allow me, i will just try to briefly respond to the honourable members. indeed, as mr olbrycht has said, currently we are in a much better situation than we were a year or two years ago because now we have the necessary instrument like the multiannual financial perspective and next generation eu at our disposal. if i look back in retrospect how difficult the discussion just before the covid crisis struck was on our common budget, i think the fact that now we have at our disposal more than two trillion, more than eur 2 000 billion, to tackle the challenges which lie ahead for the european union, is very good news. but, of course, i understand that we need to spend this money well. we have to target the attainment of proper priorities. we have to increase the resilience of the european union and the priorities which you mentioned, in particular the importance of the rule of law. we had a very important debate on this this morning. continuation of tackling the consequences of the covid crisis, tackling corruption, and of course, thinking first and foremost about our citizens and how we can deliver for them, are the priorities which we very much share with you, with the members who are directly representing the people in our member states. we are going to make sure that we will be working very closely with you on some of the concrete proposals you mentioned. when it comes to issues like the brain drain, this is a new but very important phenomenon, and therefore we also decided in the commission that we would tackle this issue because if somebody is gaining, somebody else is losing brain power, and therefore we want to make sure that we develop proper proposals and proper initiatives to tackle this issue. mr olbrycht, but i think also ms rafalska, have been making very important references to the issue of security, cyber security, but also to the importance of the migration policy. i would also like to tell you that, with regards to the reform of schengen, we still plan to deliver this year. we are continuing under the leadership of my colleague margaritis schinas to build the genuine security union developed with aspects which this initiative is covering. we want to make sure that the security union would indeed be future-proof, that we would not only be tackling the threats of the past, but the threats of the present also those in the future. ms bonafè was making strong reference, together with ms aubry, to how important it is, despite the fact that we are hopefully now in a post-pandemic stage and are experiencing economic recovery, not to forget about our commitment to fighting poverty and to making sure that no one in europe is left behind. i would just really like to reassure you that the action plan to make sure that we fulfil the european pillar of social rights, adopted in march of this year, is something that we are going to be working on because it’s not only an issue for this year. it has to be our, i would say, longer term ambition, otherwise we would not fulfil what the commission wants to deliver with regard to reducing the risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 15 million people by 2030. we want to use the mff, the next generation eu, also for these very important goals and therefore we are proposing a very important number of initiatives to achieve these goals, including a proposal of minimum wages, a child guarantee, affordable housing initiative, and to make sure that we will not forget about the regions which are going through very difficult social or environmental or industrial transitions. therefore we will see that this will be properly reflected in a lot of proposals, which will find their way to the european parliament during the course of next year. mr azmani was making a very important point about taxation. here i am very glad to say that the support that the european union was clearly demonstrating to international efforts in this field actually was successful and that we see that now we have 136 jurisdictions worldwide, including all eu members and the g20 members and oecd members to reach an historic agreement of global tax reform, establishing a global minimum level of effective taxation and the reallocation of taxation rights. therefore, the proposal which we wanted to make in this regard next year can be accelerated and we still want to present it to you this year, most probably in the fourth quarter and i think that’s good news for everyone because this is one of the issues which were on our desks for many, many years, and i think that european taxpayers especially would very much welcome the outcome of this solution. i also would like to assure you, mr azmani, that ‘one in, one out’ is the concept which we have been working very hard on and now all our services across the commission have a proper toolbox. we are introducing really novel techniques how to measure administrative burden and we will be informing you continuously. you will see the first administrative burden report about the pilot phase of this in the spring of the next year, but the first full year where we are going to make sure that any new administrative burdens will be offset, preferably in the same area. we will come to you a year later because next year will be the first year of the full implementation and we discussed it at length with my fellow commissioners just to make sure that there are not only services but also political oversight and that we have to deliver also on this very important goal. issues of migration are always very, very sensitive and therefore i can tell you that we are in permanent contact with the council to make sure that we have more progress and faster negotiations and possibly better results in the discussion on the migration pact. i agree with you, it’s an issue which has been with us for too long. it’s extremely sensitive, it’s dangerous and it’s endangering people’s lives and therefore we need to act here, the eu, as a united actor. to mr waitz i would like to say that indeed, despite the fact that this year, there are very important initiatives linked to the green deal, what i think would be very important – and there was total agreement in the college – that what we need to do, and i would really very much hope for your close cooperation, we need to deliver on the proposals we made this year. this was the most ambitious political and legal package probably for the whole legislature of the von der leyen commission. it’s an enormous amount of work we had to do, and therefore i think that close cooperation on delivering this on time would be very, very important because indeed, these proposals have the transformational potential which would clearly put europe on a safer and better path, and we again would continue to be a pioneers in tackling climate change. mr campomenosi was referring to the importance of competitiveness and i would add also the issue of open strategic autonomy which we want to guarantee not only through the technologies which we are missing right now in europe. i’m now making a point about the european chips act, which we need to have, we need to be strong in that regard because we see how many industries are depending on that. we also are making sure that when we make the proposals, we also measure the impact of these proposals from the point of view of making sure that they have these very important social and green, but also competitiveness elements in them. if you allow me to close on ms aubry’s very important point on energy prices. this is indeed a very important issue and you have seen that what we proposed last week was very much focused on how to help the most vulnerable, how to protect the most vulnerable businesses, how to use the new windfall profit, i would say, from the ets which is now with the member states and where compared to last year, more than an additional eur 10 billion was generated and how we propose to the member states how we can deal with this money. we propose more flexibility on taxation, more flexibility on tariff setting and i’m sure that after the very important discussions the leaders will have on this topic this thursday and friday, we will again look at what we, as a united eu as a concerted action, can do. i agree with you that in the long run we need to be autonomous, we have to be more green and we have to be less dependent on energy imports from outside the union. madam president, i really would like to thank you for being so patient with me, for giving me the time to not only present the programme but also to respond to the honourable members, to their questions, because we’ve been working with all of them very closely to make sure that our programme for next year is ambitious and to the liking of the european parliament, because without your support we will not be able to make it a reality and i really would like to thank you for this once again.
thank you very much, vice—president, for that very comprehensive reply. that concludes the item. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – it is necessary to debate the commission work programme in the european parliament. however, we know that citizens feel disconnected from the eu decision-making process. in the context of the conference on the future of europe, i did a tour of my country to discuss with citizens about their expectations from the eu. one of the takeaways from this tour is the fact that citizens want to be listened to; they want to be a part of the decision-making process. it is not enough to call them to vote every five years. we need to find ways to take this energy from the citizens and insert it into the political process every year. i believe that involving citizens in the mechanism that produces the commission work programme could be a way to achieve this. this is why i have proposed the implementation of an annual european agora that will take input from citizens regarding the main priorities of the eu and include it in the decision-making process that builds the work programme. hopefully, through the conference, we will also have input from the citizens present in the programme of 2023.
in writing. the worldwide typhoon is hitting automobile manufacturing and electronics hardest. the european industry is currently almost entirely dependent on technology factories outside the union. the european economy is at a competitive disadvantage due to the stagnation in the supply of semiconductors. at european level, in the first quarter of 2021, global passenger car production decreased by almost 1,3 million vehicles, representing a decrease of 11,3% compared to the last quarter of 2020. the union should ensure the security of supply of essential technological assets such as semiconductors used in the automotive industry. the inclusion of the new european legislation on semiconductors in the european commission's work programme for 2022 is an important step forward. the global economy is increasingly relying on digital solutions. while global demand has exploded, europe's share of the entire value chain from design to production capacity has declined and we are now relying on technological raw materials from third countries. it is time for europe to protect itself and build on its own innovative capacity. the aim is to strengthen the eu's digital sovereignty, to increase the competitiveness of eu companies and to ensure the security of european jobs, especially in hungary.
in writing. the european commission has adopted its work programme for 2022, which sets out the steps for post-pandemic transformation towards a greener, fairer and digitalised society. it thus established a list of measures for the following year, comprising 42 policy initiatives in six areas. it includes, for example, the european green deal, in which it intends to introduce carbon offset certification, and the zero pollution action plan. as the need for a digital europe has only been highlighted during the pandemic, the commission will therefore focus on the european chip and cyber resilience act or digital education of citizens. other initiatives include building the resilience of the social market economy, immediate payments, a european defence union, or the creation of a new eu interinstitutional ethics body. the year 2022 is to be the european year of youth, balancing the loads and strengthening democratic principles.
in writing. the eu commission work programme for 2022 continues the work towards the green and digital transition. that's the way it should be. both transitions are key to safeguarding the prosperity and competitiveness of the union as a whole. the programme includes 42 new initiatives, of which i am particularly interested in the circular economy openings for microplastics and bio-based plastics. they open up opportunities for bio-based innovations that can replace plastics and other fossil raw materials. it is good that next year the commission will finally start to implement the 'one in, one out' principle of good regulation, which my epp group has long advocated. in future, whenever necessary new regulation is introduced, the old one will be systematically and proactively reduced. this is necessary to keep the administrative burden on companies reasonable. the principle has already been piloted this autumn, but unfortunately its operation has not yet convinced. i hope that the commission will now really start to reduce unnecessary regulation. i am pleased that the work programme takes account of young people who have been disproportionately affected by the corona crisis. the european year of youth 2022 will include a new strategy for higher education and the alma initiative to provide disadvantaged young people with work opportunities abroad. the crucial initiatives of international study and work opportunities for young people must be further increased if europe is to continue to be a source of talent, of top-level research and of new innovations.
the next item on the agenda is the honourable's report. ressler and honor. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft budget for the financial year 2018 by adding the following new items to the budget:
rapporteur. – madam president, i am still in shock from this morning’s attack on our rule of law, and also on our institutions by extension, so excuse me if i’m still grappling with this, especially also because good institutions are really the solid rock on which we stand. they are extremely important and a source of – and the first line of defence for – the prosperity and progress of our continent. good institutions allow us all to negotiate our different ideas, our different interests and preferences, and decide a common political direction. they provide judgments, solve conflicts, discover fraud and fight villains who selfishly seek to profit off the community. whereas bad institutions, on the other hand, allow a small number of foul apples to put their own power and money above the progress of the many. bad institutions turn a blind eye to fraud and corruption and bad institutions open the door to state capture, inaction and inequality of citizens in front of the law. bad institutions allow politicians like prime minister morawiecki to act against the interest of his own people. so what is a good institution then? it’s, quite simply, one that is up to the task, that has the legal means, the people and the political backing to do its job, one that is independent and that can’t be corrupted. do i think that our current institutions are up to the task? to be honest – and this is quite sad – i don’t think they fully are. we ourselves are completely to blame for this. despite massive changes in the world and great new challenges for the eu, national governments have not reformed the eu since the treaty change in 2007, and the council continues to block better decision-making. the eu institutions are not given the means to do their jobs well. we have had the stable staffing policy and cuts of staff for the last years, and somehow this golden calf of austerity really is hurting our institutions and endangering the progress and prosperity that i have been talking about. so we can’t really continue as we currently are. there are many reasons why this has become more of a problem today. first, let’s look at the recovery plan. we have an unprecedented amount of money that is flowing through the different budgets to the member states. hundreds of people are needed to really look in the various institutions, to supervise the planning, to monitor the spending of money and to organise the flow of it. corona has also seen a vast increase in capacities to try to basically grapple with the situation, we have brexit and other difficult procedures at our borders, and we obviously need to fight climate change, where more resources are needed. so mr ressler and i have been tasked to defend the commission’s budget, but also the other institutions’ budgets, against indiscriminate and horizontal cuts. i wanted to use the opportunity here to thank the fellow shadows for the great cooperation that we had in coming up with parliament’s position on these matters. despite all these challenges that i have been outlining, the council did not come up with a better and more, let’s say, detailed view on where we stand, but really tried to just go for stable staffing, austerity and always the same old narrative. but today, madam minister, when we also formally start our discussions about the budget, i would ask you to potentially take into account all these factors that i’ve been mentioning and not just see these numbers, but also the tasks that stand behind them because they are quite important and we need to save our institutions. to say it with slightly more fun words: to stop villains getting fatter, let’s make our institutions matter, to rebut the polish letter, let’s make our institutions better.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, let us mention four important points for the 2022 budget in terms of development. first, the total public support of the states, which is about four times that of the european commission. the commission therefore has a strong leverage, as provided for in the treaty, to persuade the member states to act in the same way. second, the commission's strategic role should focus on the best approaches to achieving the sustainable development goals. in this context, reducing inequalities through better taxation policies in developing countries and access to social security in these countries should be a major objective. thirdly, threats to security and health and major political upheavals make it necessary to use the budget reserve. this reserve should be used to deal with unforeseen events rather than to supplement budgetary items for which expenditure estimates were lower than they actually were. fourth, the eu will have to step up its efforts to combat climate change, an area in which it already plays a leading role. this leverage is mentioned because other countries will have to be convinced, since the challenge we face is a global one.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, just four quick points. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, let me express great appreciation of the work of the rapporteurs. thanks for taking all points on board, but let me just add three more, focused rather into the future, that are not reflected. first of all, we should pay attention to proper financing of the european supervisory authority. as they are getting more assignments they must be properly staffed and be ready to fulfil the goals. second, i guess there is a general understanding that pilot projects represent a very good way how to improve the functionality of the european union. i would just call for more transparency and possible flexibility on the side of the commission to better utilise this tool. last but not least, in the budget we are often dealing with the millions while we are losing billions. i am talking about tax evasion, tax avoidance, that is the problem across the eu. we will get great support from the oecd agreement, but we should do also our homework and we can do much more to protect the money of the member states and the european union.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our farmers and food producers have shown extraordinary resilience and self-sacrifice in the face of the health and economic crisis that has hit us. however, some of the most emblematic sectors of our food tradition continue to suffer from the consequences of market demand that is still far from pre-pandemic levels. the committee on agriculture therefore insists on the need for additional financial resources for the year 2022 to support the recovery of our farmers. on this point, commissioner, there is an urgent need to reflect on the usefulness and effectiveness of the cap crisis reserve, especially in view of the significant improvements in its functioning which parliament has incorporated into the process of reform of the common agricultural policy. we cannot allow rural areas to be left behind, jeopardizing the sense of european belonging of some of our citizens. we therefore hope that the long-term vision presented by the commission will be followed by concrete and adequately funded initiatives as early as 2022.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the items relevant to the culture committee have been included in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2022, in substance. this is a real signal to our citizens. this budget responds to the need to invest in education and culture, especially in view of the impact of the covid-19 health crisis. there is no doubt that the cultural and creative sectors and all the people who work in these sectors have been hit the hardest by the pandemic. nor is it the fact that children and young people have suffered the most from the consequences of this crisis. it is therefore important to invest in these policies, as they make an important contribution to strengthening democracy. however, it is regrettable that the 'citizens, equality, rights and values' programme's 'citizens and participation' action area has not received a corresponding increase in resources. i therefore very much hope that the amendment tabled by the committee on culture will find a majority.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – madam president, indeed, i’m speaking on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs. we contributed to this resolution and i would really like to reiterate the need for allocation of proper financial means for the committee on constitutional affairs’ to be able to respond to its priorities in the next budget. i would like to reiterate that communication with citizens is essential here. the roll out of the conference on the future of europe, the existing participatory instruments like the european citizens’ initiative, the citizens equality rights and values programme all play a crucial role in strengthening european citizenship and democracy, as we heard this morning. and last but not least, activities aimed at raising awareness and countering disinformation. i am also very much looking forward to seeing the continuation of the implementation of two pilot projects; one of them, in particular, namely building europe with local entities, which is very important with a view to implementing pilot projects and the temporary citizens assembly.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner, dear members of the european parliament, i am again honoured to be here today at the debate on the budget for 2022. we already had the opportunity to talk about this in mid—september, when i presented to you the council position. the core priorities for the union – and i think we share the same view – are the recovery of the european economy, the fight against climate change and the eu green and digital transition. on this, i think, we are of a common view. in this respect, the events that we have confronted recently with the pandemic, with natural and other disasters, as well as the dramatic developments at the international level, are the confirmation that we need to foresee sufficient margins in the eu budget to face challenges that could occur in many areas, including security, humanitarian aid and migration. if these margins do not exist, the eu will not be able to act on these occasions. parliament, with these margins, proposes to increase the expenditures above the council’s positions of 4.1 billion in commitment appropriations and 2.5 billion in payment appropriations. we are just at the beginning of the current multiannual financial framework (mff). the council cannot accept the full use of the margins in almost all headings, as well as the substantial use of special instruments requested by parliament. what the union needs is a budget for 2022 that creates trust for the future, avoids unnecessary expenditure and foresees sufficient margins to face any unexpected circumstance or challenge that may arise in the next years. allow me to touch upon a few more detailed points. regarding the financing of research and innovation: the council recognises that horizon europe is an essential instrument to support the recovery of our economies from the pandemic and to contribute to the green deal, to a climate—neutral economy and to a successful digital transition. however, parliament’s proposal to increase the allocation foreseen by the council by more than 1.51 billion goes against the attempt to make a stable evolution for the future. the council also considers that the opportunity offered in article 15.3 of the financial regulation needs to be employed in a responsible manner and back—loaded for the second part of the mff period. this would bring a more appropriate and stable financing of horizon once the top—ups from next generation eu stop. moreover, the council is surprised by the proposal to make use of the more than 400 million resulting from the remaining 2020 research decommitments as they were neither forecasted nor included in the mff agreement. with regard to the investment in people and social cohesion and values, parliament proposes an additional eur 700 million for the european social fund plus (esf+) to foster the implementation of the european child guarantee. i would like to note here that parliament and the council have agreed on a provision to finance the measures necessary to deal with this important topic for the years 2021—2027 in the framework of the esf+ regulation, which entered into force from july this year. it is difficult to understand why a few months later parliament wants to change the agreed approach. moreover, here there is also the implementation aspect. the esf+ is mainly implemented under shared management, and member states’ programmes are already underway. as regards the financing of the recovery and resilience, while the council fully acknowledges the importance of programmes such as eu4health and erasmus+, these programmes have already been reinforced in the draft budget. therefore, a further increase of eur 300 million does not seem reasonable. the council reaffirms its strong commitment to ensuring sufficient funding for the important areas of migration, border security and defence. however, parliament’s proposed increases in these areas do not seem well funded, and what is more would leave us without any room for manoeuvre in case of unexpected events. regarding the external action of the union, the council takes note of the proposed increase of over one billion as compared to the council’s position. the council acknowledges that the situation in external policy, and humanitarian aid in particular, can fluctuate quickly, as shown by the evolution in afghanistan this year, and the council agrees that there is a need to be able to react swiftly to possible oncoming challenges. however, we also note that when the situation in a country deteriorates, development aid is often substituted by humanitarian aid. they are not systematically complementary. this will, in all likelihood, be the case for afghanistan as eu development assistance is based on clear conditions and principles. a partial shift on the ndici cushion for the margin would allow for a quick, controlled mobilisation of resources when they are most needed, including humanitarian aid. also, in particular, the council finds it difficult to understand the increases proposed for staff, notably in the case of the european parliament. in the case of the budget of this house, especially, we regret that there is at the moment no explanation for such a significant increase in staff. under these circumstances, our citizens might find it difficult to understand that the eu administration bears no part of the effort and even more difficult to understand that this increases its ranks, notably in the case of the european parliament itself. i have listened today to all your arguments and debates during this meeting, and i will inform my colleagues in the council accordingly of what you have said. the council will do its utmost to engage in a constructive dialogue, allowing us to come to an agreement on the budget for 2022 within the deadlines foreseen in the treaty.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i would like to thank the european parliament, especially the committee on budgets and all specialised committees, for the intensive work on the commission’s proposal for the draft budget 2022, which apparently resulted in more than 1 400 proposed amendments. i welcome the timely achievement of the two rapporteurs, mr ressler and mr boeselager, in reaching a broad support among political groups and committees. i further appreciate that the amendments proposed by the parliament reinstate most of the expenditure at the level proposed by the commission in the draft budget. third, the parliament proposes reinforcements for a number of programmes for 2022, for example in research and innovation, including the use of article 15(3) of the financial regulation, climate action, employment opportunities for youth, including the child guarantee, actions related to asylum and migration and health. both the european parliament and the council have now set the framework of their respective negotiation mandates, and i could only reiterate my great regret at the council cuts, which are not in line with the mff agreement and don’t follow the council’s own priorities. the overall cut amounts to eur 1.4 billion in commitments and eur 724 million in payments. at the same time, the parliament requests substantial increases of eur 2.7 billion in commitments and eur 1.8 billion in payments. this request exceeds the available margins in nearly all headings, as well as the availabilities under the special instruments. the positions of the parliament and the council diverge substantially, which is, in a way, surprising, given the still fresh agreement on the mff reached less than one year ago, but i would say that this is obviously the provisional start of negotiations and now we have to see how to converge. today’s debate and the exchange of views should increase our mutual understanding, facilitate progress towards a common approach and indeed find a common denominator. the commission services are examining thoroughly all amendments proposed by the parliament, together with those proposed by the council. to facilitate the upcoming negotiations, the commission will present a detailed assessment of amendments proposed by the council and parliament in the so-called letter of executability. we will send this letter prior to the opening of the conciliation, shortly after the plenary vote on the parliament’s position. i am confident that the negotiations will continue in the positive spirit we have had until now, and inevitably a clear prioritisation of tabled amendments from both institutions, as well as concessions on both sides, will be necessary. as regards the next steps, we already presented the amending letter in last week’s trilogue to update agricultural expenditure and to introduce some new elements which have been proposed or updated since the adoption of the statement of estimates in june. this concerns, in particular, the 2022 instalment of the pre-financing of the brexit adjustment reserve, as well as continued support to refugees in turkey and beyond. i would like to ask the european parliament and the council to consider this amending letter as an additional element in the negotiating process. i trust that the agreement on the 2022 budget will respect the recent political agreement on the 2021—2027 multiannual financial framework, and that it will fairly reflect both the position of the parliament and the council. as you know, we are still in a crisis situation. the vaccination campaigns have provided – and also proved – a relief, but many people still don’t have access to vaccines. climate change makes the natural world less predictable, both within the union and abroad, so let me stress that a timely agreement on a solid eu budget is the best way to support our society and our economy, and respond to the expectations of our citizens. we will all need to work constructively if we want to find a compromise in time and have the budget adopted. thank you so much for all your collaboration. i am looking forward to a good result in the interests of everybody.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, a lot of wise words have already been spoken during this debate so i would like to seize the opportunity and draw your attention to some examples which might bring us to more general points. these are, for us as budgetary politicians, especially clarity and control. we can see that significant funds from financing programmes are transferred, for example, to decentralised agencies. i can give you two examples. the eu4health programme, which we fought for quite strongly in this parliament, goes to the organisation for economic co—operation and development (oecd) agency and the european medicines agency (ema). i support these fields of policy because they are very important. the pandemic has shown this very clearly. another example is border management and the visa instrument, money transferred to europol. i strongly support this strengthening of europol, but the way it is done contradicts the need for clarity that we, as parliamentarians, should fight for. the real questions that we should ask ourselves are: is it necessary not only to understand the movements, but the underlying reasons, and are agencies taking over tasks that would otherwise have been financed under the programme? it is important to have control as well. in the fields of other sections, we talk about supporting the european court of auditors, and let me say that, if we, as a parliament, have literally no control over nextgenerationeu and the vast amounts that go along with this programme, we should at least strengthen the european court of auditors. bearing this in mind, i think we should agree that we, as a parliament, should talk more about clarity and more about control. we will strengthen the whole parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the draft eu budget for 2022 and especially my wonderful colleagues from s&d, renew and left. we have not only made this budget greener, but we have also made it more forward-looking. the 2022 eu budget is the second budget of the multiannual financial framework, and it is clear that we want to achieve the paris climate targets by 2030 at the latest. we need more momentum, more ambition and clear decisions on how to invest taxpayers' money in the right places, because we know that where money goes, that's where policy is really made. we greens have three priorities for the 2022 eu budget: climate, biodiversity and research and development. because it is clear: we need strong research and innovation for green technology, for decarbonising the economy and for an ecological-social transformation for a strong economic location in europe. we have now launched an eu budget for 2022 with major increases for key programmes, totalling more than €1.64 billion in addition to the draft budget. in concrete terms, this means that over €450 million is going to climate and biodiversity programmes - my personal highlight is the €171 million increase for life - and over €430 million is now going to research and development. we also have 760 million euros for other priorities such as humanitarian aid, eu4health, rights and values and erasmus+, and that is also a wonderful thing. we can therefore enter the trilogue on the 2022 eu budget with a strong parliament that understands what the future means.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. congratulations, you made it again! they shall present a budget which formally meets most of the criteria and requirements of the treaty and the financial regulation. you know very well that we have an elephant in the room and that this budget is only part of the overall nextgenerationeu package and that it is largely financed by loans. this is a taboo for the eu budget. you can't wipe this stain off. and this illicit debt financing will continue to weigh on all households. how are you going to explain this to your children? my grandchildren often ask me: 'what are you doing in brussels? other i assure you, i am fighting for your future. then 14-year-old rahel, who is currently designing a business plan for her class, asks me in disbelief: "but grandpa, why are you in so much debt? other what do you say to your grandchildren? how do you explain to them the gigantic cost of the green deal, which is currently burning in the flames of russian coal and gas? how do you explain to them that we spend more money every year on meaningless projects that our children have to pay back without being able to benefit? please think of your children and let's finally stop this drift towards a debt-financed eu budget. let us be honest and secure the future of our children!
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues, the minister and the commissioner for these exchanges. i think we can see this as a start of our formal negotiation to really try to come to the best outcome for our institutions. i just wanted to quickly react to some of the comments that have been made, so i didn’t really fully get the translation of what you were saying, but i’m very thankful for the cooperation we have had so far, and also for you mentioning the potential differences or implications that the polish situation might have on the budget, because i think that’s actually also relevant if you think about it. how can we transfer money to a country that does not accept the treaties? how can we actually believe that the judges will follow up with due diligence if they’re not bound by our common order? and i think that’s a question that we had discussed this morning, and that the commission also is currently looking into. mr kuhs asked what he should tell his grandchildren and i actually quite enjoyed this question because i think the first answer would be to tell them that, you know, a europe of segregated nations with closed borders to each other is not a europe that they want to live in. the second thing, though, which has more to do with the budget, is the question of how we should invest in the future. my colleagues have mentioned many of the points that we believe are relevant for future investment: climate youth programmes, digitisation, ensuring the future competitiveness. i think to get out of this crisis well, the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) is a good tool, but the whole budget is very important to actually build back better. in terms of institutional changes that we can also consider to have in the future better working mode, i think it’s important that when we talk about the budget, we also see the context of the overall architecture of our financial and fiscal framework. and here i’m very happy that we are starting this process of understanding that the rrf was a one time tool, but we have an ongoing understanding or issue with the fact that we have a currency union, but not yet a fiscal union, and that is something that we also need to get to. to end, let me close with what i started with. i think it’s important that we come to a good conclusion for our institutions, for our european union, to strengthen them, to strengthen the ombudsman, the court of justice, the court of auditors, all these institutions that make up our european union, and i also very much look forward to then, at some point, coming to a conclusion on this budget.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. president von der leyen will not tire of stressing that she wants to lead a geopolitical commission. open strategic autonomy is the word of the hour. and yet, i think taiwan shows that it's just a long way from sunday speeches to reality. parliament has repeatedly called for the preparation of an investment agreement with taiwan. what happened? what happened? i don't know. on the contrary, the commission even makes an agreement with china a condition for an agreement with taiwan. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the democratic and rule of law developments in taiwan are the counter-proposal to the authoritarian system of rule in the people's republic of china. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the european parliament and to the council for adoption.
in writing. taiwan has been a democracy for 30 years; and for 50 years, we have been forbidden by the people's republic of china to recognize taiwan as the independent country that it is in fact, simply because the people's republic is bigger and its 1.3 billion people can earn more money than 23 million taiwanese. china's development into a confident, aggressively acting hegemonic power was foreseeable. hong kong's development into a dictatorial vassal state was foreseeable. taiwan faces a similar fate, especially acute after the indignitous withdrawal of the americans from afghanistan. in fact, this eu-taiwan resolution should have been adopted by parliament decades ago. instead, it has stuck its head in the sand and acted as if china had no geostrategic interests of its own, because it is not in a position to develop its own geostrategic interests, let alone formulate them. i voted for the eu-taiwan resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are debating today guidelines which are fundamental to the green deal. but unlike the many bills we are currently debating in parliament which are supposed to bring us to climate neutrality, these directives are not being decided democratically. instead, the commission alone decides which technologies member states may support and how. the commission's aim in these directives is to ensure competition in the internal market. but competition must not undermine our climate goals or the democratically adopted energy market legislation from the clean energy package. so it must be clear: there can be no subsidies for fossil fuels. there must be a strong support for renewable energy. it is not possible to put them in competition with efficiency measures, because we need both. regional differentiation must be possible, so that wind energy in southern germany, for example, can also be promoted. and there must be substantial exceptions to the tendering rules for citizen energy. because otherwise we have the problem that the rights of citizen energy from the clean energy package are not worth the paper they are written on. people want to be part of the energy transition, people want to be part of the path to climate neutrality. but we must not prevent them by overburdening them with red tape, as is the case with tenders. that is why i am very pleased, mrs vestager, that you have just announced that there will be improvements.
mr president, i fully subscribe to what my colleagues, mr ferber, mr pieper and mr arimont, have been saying regarding the effects of the revised state aid rules on smes. but, as the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on the eu’s hydrogen strategy, i would like to comment on your proposal from a different, much more positive, angle. the draft guidelines are a big step forward because they support the uptake of renewable and low—carbon hydrogen in all types of activities and across the whole value chain, which is key to keep eu leadership and achieve scale—up in a synchronised manner. as additional food for thought, i would like to propose three ideas. first, it would be good to even better reflect the needed operational programme innovation and competitiveness (opic) support, which can go up to 90%. second, it would be good to increase the percentages of aid intensities applicable outside of bidding processes to better take into account the different development of hydrogen infrastructures in member states, and, third, facilitate cross-border renewable energy and hydrogen projects to bring down costs. i have more ideas, but my time is over. please feel free to contact me.
mr president, madam vice-president, mr logar, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today's discussion is timely. we have been discussing in this house, just two weeks ago, the issue of rising energy prices. it is true that the commission is resisting calls from the member states for market intervention. the continuing rise in prices shows: the long-term course must be right. i cannot understand why the commission now intends to remove three quarters of the eligible sectors from the list of aid in its draft guidelines. what does that mean for practice? an example from my constituency: a medium-sized company that specialises in the production of sustainable fuels such as wood pellets. wood pellets will play an important role in the implementation of the green deal. but the production process is very energy-intensive. the commission notes that the price of wood pellets is higher than the price of wood pellets produced by the union industry. that is why we need the urgently needed support if the green transition is to succeed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also thank the rapporteur and my shadow rapporteurs very warmly for their good cooperation. as always, the outcome of the negotiations is a compromise and therefore not perfect, but i am very satisfied with what has been achieved. a single basic act and horizontal provisions applicable to all partnerships were a step in the right direction, and in many places we have succeeded in making relevant improvements, also thanks to some green proposals, for example on climate objectives, civil society involvement, transparency, accountability and reporting obligations, scientific expertise in governance structures, composition of stakeholder groups, to name just a few keywords. i also regard the explicit involvement of young women scientists, doctoral students and postdocs as a great success. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. i want to explicitly call this too clean hydrogen. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. overall, i regret that it has not been possible to establish separate scientific advisory boards in all partnerships to ensure that scientific expertise is effectively integrated into decision-making processes free of economic conflicts of interest. i also regret that participation in the partnerships is becoming less attractive for public institutions such as research institutes and universities because it no longer seems to be affordable. i am afraid that this legislation will not reverse the trend, but rather the opposite. overall, however, it will provide important impetus for innovation, and it is good that the first calls can be launched this year.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union's funding programmes are sometimes bad, sometimes good. but we all have a problem with you, that you think we are making life in europe and economic attractiveness more attractive by taking money, redistributing it through a bureaucracy - following certain abstract rules - and then giving it back. i'm afraid that's not the way to create innovation and growth. it is not for nothing that the european union is the major economic area with the lowest levels of innovation and growth. this does not change the fact that we too believe that the changes that are now taking place under horizon europe are pointing in the right direction. there are always things we don't like. there are always developments which we disagree with for specific or very general reasons. but the common thread is that we are trying to achieve, through more and more regulation and more and more europeanisation, what, according to all experience and also to all empirical findings, is best done where economic action and innovation take place: in companies, in research institutions. less regulation, less taxation, less bureaucracy, less eu, more freedom are therefore the order of the day. in such a situation, the member faces the difficult question: how to decide? are we honoring the changes that are coming? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. in this case, we have decided to abstain, which may not be the most convincing solution, but it does express this dilemma. in general, we wish that whenever we consider whether we can improve a grant programme by more rules, more boards, more extensive exceptions or extensions, we would not think it would be better to delete one for every rule that comes along. i wonder if worsening is not worse than improving. that didn't happen here. that's the job. then europe will be back to growth and innovation.
i have to say, madam president, since yesterday i have received over 600 emails from concerned polish citizens and have read many of them carefully. the message is unanimous: we in poland stand by our government and our constitution. we do not want a european union which dictates our way of life and which goes beyond its powers. we do not want an eu that condemns us morally and accuses our government of anti-semitic stereotypes, as we have heard today. mr president, you have a lot of important issues and a long agenda for the next few days. i don't know if poland will go for it. but you should talk about it first, because your house is on fire. you must put out this fire or you want to push the poles out of the union? do you want to be the gravedigger of this ever-growing union? strengthen the true values of europe and its predominantly christian identity. stop the coronavirus measures and end the division of society into vaccinated and unvaccinated. give me the freedom, sire!
madam president, we often say in the eu that the future is green and digital, but we cannot take these transformations for granted. therefore, i was pleased to see both issues high on the agenda of the council once again. the recent rise in energy prices is, of course, of huge concern. this is a global problem, but europe has been particularly exposed due to a combination of factors. we must reach the eu’s 2030 goal of cutting emissions by 55%. that is without question. but, in the meantime, the lights must stay on. that means diversifying our gas supply immediately, something my country, ireland, may need to revisit, and something rightly articulated by president ursula von der leyen here this morning. in delivering our climate targets, we must ensure the transition to clean energy is as smooth as possible in terms of energy costs and security. increased energy efficiency and accelerated deployment of renewables will be key in this regard. while the vital role the digital world has to play in communications, education and business is clear, with other areas it is less obviously relevant. it has been very positive, therefore, to see the wide—ranging impact of the digital transformation being recognised in the work of parliament through the mainstreaming of digitalisation across our policy work.
president. - the debate is closed. the european summit will be dominated by the polish court's ruling. and let me be clear: kaczyński and his friends must be hit where it hurts them most. the pvda therefore calls on the commission - which the dutch government will also bring to the council - to: look at whether the european funds can be withheld, but continue to support human rights organisations in poland, for example. mr president, if you have to make ends meet every month, you may find climate change worrying, but you are mainly concerned with paying the increased rent, the healthcare premium and the energy bill. so make sure that the low and middle income groups in europe can join the transition. and let's not let ourselves in europe be held hostage by putin or people who take advantage of high energy bills to do nothing about climate change.
madam president of the european parliament, mr commissioner, mr president of the european council, i am here today to hear clear answers on the actions and measures which the european commission and the european council intend to take to finally put a stop to turkish aggression, provocation and lawlessness, and to the daily criminal acts against cyprus and greece, two member states of the european union which are patiently waiting for european solidarity to be shown. what is happening between the european union and turkey is highly unacceptable, offensive, provocative and humiliating for the european union, because turkey continues to write in its own shoes and to disregard the decisions of the european council and the european commission, while the european union itself continues to finance and reward it, instead of taking punitive measures. i would like to know, mr commissioner, mr president of the european council, whether you feel that you are doing your duty to the fullest with regard to two member states of the european union, greece and cyprus, whether you feel that the real role of the european union, as a force which wants to play a leading role in humanity, is to remain a mere spectator and observer of turkey's criminal actions. and do not tell me the familiar platitude that the european union does not have the means and the weapons to confront turkey. the european union has the most irresistible and powerful weapon and instrument in the economy and can, even today, take measures against turkey, by freezing the customs union and freezing budgetary funds. dare to do it, and be assured that turkey will comply and take different decisions regarding provocative behaviour ... (the president withdraws the speaker from the floor) )
madam president, solving the people's problem has to be our priority. lessons learned from the pandemic response, in particular the lessons learned from the vaccination strategy, demonstrate that collaborative and solidarity-based work is more effective and better responds to what citizens expect of us. i hope that this spirit of solidarity and cooperation will inspire the important decisions that the european council will face, in the digital transformation, including the cyclical and structural response to rising energy prices, in the definition of a new generation of sustainable trade policies and in the use of all the instruments at our disposal to ensure mass and global vaccination. portugal, my country, has 87% of its population vaccinated. haiti, whose humanitarian situation we are discussing today in this house, has 0.7%. not leaving anyone behind in vaccination is a challenge of civilization, it's a challenge of survival. we have to live up to it.
madam president, this is a very important european council in the context of the fact that we have not yet definitively defeated the coronavirus pandemic, and the increase in energy prices worries european citizens in all countries. a firm response and coordination of action at european level against covid-19 is still needed as there is a possibility of future mutations and unfortunately there are countries that have not yet reached the vaccination target. since the beginning of the year the market price of natural gas and electricity have risen extremely worryingly. the commission presented last week the set of tools and actions that i think are very appropriate and i had a debate in the itre committee that i chair, where it was called for active support to the member states at the level of the european commission, but also to ensure that these measures are implemented. i believe that member states should be able to use not only the money from the increase in the price of emission allowances, but also other european funds not spent in the financial year 2014-2020, to mitigate the impact of the price increase through capping, partial bill compensation or through state aid schemes for smes and industry. i think we need to adopt the taxonomy for natural gas and nuclear energy as soon as possible and we need to find those mechanisms in the eu ets that will protect us as much as possible from speculative increases in the price of co2 certificates. we must act now and i am confident that the european council will send a very strong message.
madam president, colleagues, the pandemic is not over. many more member states are having problems managing the health crisis. this is why this subject must be at the top of the agenda of the european council. in romania, because of the incompetence of the right-wing parties, we have today over 500 deaths a day. every two minutes, a person dies, and this risks putting all of europe back in the red. the european union must intervene, it cannot leave things to chance, especially since the romanian executive has missed both the vaccination campaign and the purchase of tests with european money. the negative effects of the pandemic on the economy and society are just beginning. the council must be more proactive in reacting and this is true, including for the energy price crisis. profits are rising, europe's population is cooling down and, beyond the cynicism of some political leaders, active measures and european action are needed to provide solutions to the challenges and hardships faced by citizens. i expect the next european council to come up with clear solutions and decisions, because indecision costs lives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that the construction of europe began with energy, with a project for the joint management of coal and steel, and today, in the face of the terrible price crisis affecting households and businesses, we must have the same courage, the same vision, we must make a leap forward in european integration. new powers and new roles are needed for the union, even beyond the legal bases. if there is the political will of the member states, it can be done, because the challenges we are facing together, the transition on the one hand and the emergency on the other, require it. the toolbox is not enough. the council has only half-hearted proposals on its table. in addition to the bills, we must also tackle the structural problems of the energy market, which is too fragmented and not sufficiently interconnected, that is to say, it is too little european. the president's proposals lack a number of important points, in the view of my group: a common purchasing mechanism, so that europe is more powerful in the negotiations and also in the geopolitical game; a renewable energy development plan with africa; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the financial speculation that exists in the ets mechanism. the lesson of covid has taught us that we are stronger together and i hope the council will remember that.
madam president, europe is on the verge of an energy crisis. electricity, fuel, oil, natural gas are all going up in price. it is urgent to act quickly to help the poorest during the heating season. the increase in energy prices is also a consequence of past speculation. industry and households did not create the conditions, and the pandemic situation has severely reduced or even stopped the income of many. it is unacceptable that the capital gains pursued by distributors are financially harmful to consumers. the rising energy prices will push many to the edge of survival. in slovenia, about 40 000 households are threatened with poverty due to rising energy prices. people shouldn't be forced to choose between heating or food. i call on the union's leaders to act together, as they did in the case of covid. governments have the power and the responsibility to help their people and their countries. we need a european energy marshall plan and we must not allow the transition to a green and zero-carbon society to leave anyone behind.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i really would like to thank all honourable members for indeed a very rich debate on tomorrow’s european council. as ms de lange, mr séjourné and many others reminded us already at the beginning of this debate, i think it was clearly once again confirmed how rule of law, how respect for our common european values is important for this house. yesterday, we had a profound debate on these issues and the situation in poland, and i can only reconfirm that the position of the european commission on this issue is very clear and that president von der leyen will present and defend this position in tomorrow’s debate. several honourable members also raised the issues of migration, and rightly so, because recent events have reminded us that migration demands our continued attention and action. as you know, last month we presented a renewed eu action plan against migrant smuggling, and for the first time we are placing a special focus on state-sponsored smuggling of migrants. and i also would like to underline that in our forthcoming package on schengen, we will also give particular emphasis to the phenomenon of instrumentalisation of migrants. honourable members have been also referring to the vaccines, and i think it’s good to look at this in the wider perspective. and indeed, i think this is one area where we as europeans can be proud about this success story. not only did we secure enough doses for our citizens, but we’ve been very fair also to the global community because we exported the same amount of doses to more than 150 southern countries. to export one billion doses is no mean feat, it is a huge achievement for europe and for our industry. but i heard your calls, from ms garcía pérez, that we have to continue to play our leading role in covax and to make sure that distribution of the doses and the vaccines, especially in the lower income countries, is significantly accelerated. but the topic which dominated today’s discussion, and all parliamentary leaders intervened in that respect, was energy, energy prices. and these clearly would be also the crucial topics for debate by the european council members, european leaders, tomorrow. i would like to reassure you that we in the commission recognise the urgency of the situation, and we must, as mr schieder just referred to, prevent energy poverty and negative spillover effects to the wider economy. i was listening very carefully to mr macmanus, mr kelly, mr mureşan, mr zorrinho, ms jongerius, mr buşoi, who have been making very important points in this regard. and i think that the urgency of this matter has to be translated to the steps for immediate relief to the most vulnerable families and businesses, which we can do now. under current rules, especially if you are talking about these categories of smes and vulnerable families, we can do a lot through state aid, through targeted support to consumers, to use these new windfall profits of the ets, which were much higher, i think, by more than eur 10 billion this year compared to last year. and we can work together with member states on cutting energy taxes and levies, and i am glad that 20 member states are already proceeding in that regard. on top of this, i also want to tell you that we hear you loud and clear, and we will clamp down on speculation in energy, gas and carbon markets as was proposed by mr moreno sánchez. as you probably know, we have already asked the european securities and markets authority to proceed with an examination of the trading with all emission allowances. several of you called for assessment of the functioning electricity market design. indeed, our market design never performed under such volatility of the prices. therefore, we asked acer, the agency of the european energy regulators, to proceed quickly to prepare preliminary findings, which i hope we will be able to share with you definitely before the end of the year, and then it would be up to us to decide how to proceed further. on top of this, we know that a big issue in our energy markets is supply of gas. therefore, we are reaching out to foreign suppliers. we are helping member states to coordinate their global outreach. and as mr niedermayer said, and i think it’s a very valid point, we have to do better in how we manage our strategic reserves, how we manage our global storages, because this time this crisis is not caused by the lack of infrastructure, as it was five, six, seven years ago. we have enough interconnectors. we have good pipelines. we have solid gas storages. we just need to manage them better, more responsibly, to make sure that europe is more resilient, and for that, i think we can find inspiration in how we manage oil reserves with a three-month reserve, and i think we should proceed in the same way in the case of gas, and therefore the commission will prepare a european framework for this type of approach in the future and for more regular stress testing of our energy systems before each winter. having said all this, i think it just underlines what is very important, and thank you very much to the honourable members for highlighting how dependent we are on the imports of fossil energy and how important it is to focus more on development of truly indigenous european energy sources. sun and wind are not only clean, but they are truly european and therefore also this crisis must just reinforce our ambition for cop26 in glasgow, where i am absolutely convinced europe will prepare the most ambitious approach on how to solve not only current energy prices, but how to tackle the challenge of our lifetime, and this is climate change.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me tackle some issues that were put forward during today’s debate. there was a statement that the council has not given any direction regarding the debate on the rule of law. let me inform you that the priority of the slovenian presidency is a discussion on the rule of law. yesterday’s general affairs council discussed the rule of law – a horizontal view. next month, in november, there will be a country—specific discussion on the rule of law, and as well in december there will be a discussion on the rule of law. this topic has been discussed among leaders before, even if it was not on the formal agenda of the council, and, in addition, if any of the leaders wish to raise this important issue at the european council, they can always do so. as we heard from several of your interventions, we can expect that they will do so and will raise the issue. therefore, we expect a discussion on this topic will take place during the european council as well. there was a question regarding the eastern partnership and belarus. the belarusian decision to suspend its participation in the summit, which will be the first in a physical format since 2017, is not unexpected, but is regrettable, especially for all that strive for democratic procedure and dialogue. hence, there will be no invitation, but we need to continue reaching out to civil society and keep pressuring the authorities in minsk. i think all institutions are doing so, including the presidency. right now, we are drafting the final declaration that will be issued at the end of the summit. there was a question regarding broadening sanctions. there is also a discussion regarding that in many rounds of discussion in the foreign affairs council, especially as we see the instrumentalisation of migration for the purposes of politicisation of the issue. especially the use of migratory pressure on the border of european states shows that the sanctions have their effect. coming to migration, there are several concerning developments. we are witnessing, in the vicinity of the european union, the number of irregular migrants arriving via the mediterranean sea or via the west african route increase by 39%, in comparison to 2020, and arrivals via the central mediterranean route have increased by 76%. the council will discuss the migration situation on the various routes with a focus on developments on the routes that give rise to serious concern and require instant and immediate reaction. the european council will as well call on the commission and the high representative, in close cooperation with member states, to immediately enforce concrete action for priority countries of origin and transit. the european council will also condemn and reject any attempt by third countries to instrumentalise migrants for a political purpose. on energy prices, the presidency is active in this field. on 22 september, the informal meeting of energy ministers took place, where several delegations started to voice concern about increasing energy prices, and a couple of delegations also made concrete suggestions, mostly aimed at renewing the functioning of the eu emissions trading system. in the last two weeks, energy prices were further discussed at the competitiveness council, at the eurogroup, at the eu—western balkans summit, and at the environment council. following these meetings, five member states put forward the idea to reform the wholesale electricity market. we discussed this in the plenary during the first october session. on 13 october, the commission released its toolbox to help member states to curb the rise of energy prices, and member states already have a chance to react to this commission communication. after the discussion at the summit, the presidency has also scheduled an informal ministerial meeting of energy ministers on 26 october. so this topic is high on the agenda and discussed in many council meetings. spoštovane poslanke in poslanci, najlepša hvala za vaše pripombe in komentarje. predsedstvo bo z njimi podrobno seznanilo predsednika evropskega sveta. v veliki meri teme evropskega sveta pokrivajo vprašanja, ki ste jih sami izpostavili v današnji razpravi. gre za ključna vprašanja, s katerimi se danes sooča evropska unija ter njeni državljani in državljanke, predvsem pandemija covid-19, porast cen energije, vprašanje migracij pa tudi dolgoročna strateška vprašanja, na primer trgovina in digitalna preobrazba evrope. za izpostavljene izzive ste tudi sami ugotovili, ni preprostih odgovorov tudi ni preprostih rešitev, vendar pa se je med krizo covid-19 izkazalo, da smo skupaj močnejši in ko so pred nami globalni izzivi, kot so podnebne spremembe, migracije, krepitev demokratičnih standardov, hitro spreminjajoči svet, moramo delovati z združenimi močmi in verjamem, da bodo sklepi evropskega sveta pravi odgovor za izzive, ki so pred nami. hvala za našo razpravo.
thank you very much, mr logar, for closing the debate. i remind all the colleagues that mr comín i oliveres has asked under rule 173 to make a personal statement. you can now do it for one minute.
madam president, mr garicano, i thank you for waiting until the end of the debate to listen to this speech and allowing me to speak with all due respect, but with all force. i know that some of you don't like history at all, but history says that nazism was defeated in germany, fascism was defeated in italy, salazarism in portugal, stalinism in the eastern countries... but francoism was not defeated in spain, and spain is the exception of the european union, and who violated the principles and european values in the year 2017 was not the catalan government putting ballot boxes and allowing people to go to vote, it was the spanish state beating voters who were going to vote peacefully, imprisoning an innocent government and now persecuting us against what the council of europe demands. i would like to end by asking you: do you think that the spanish supreme court and the spanish constitutional court should be subject to the decisions of the court of justice of the european union? - yes or no? because you're not, and you think it's okay.
thank you very much, your time is up. mr garicano, would you like also to express a personal statement in this regard? you can make it from your own place.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the european council meets again tomorrow, and an important issue affecting more than one million hungarians is unlikely to be on the table. not because viktor orbán, the current hungarian prime minister, doesn't think it's important, doesn't fit into the war agenda pre-written by his campaign gurus, but because he may simply be too cowardly or too weak in his motives to bring it up in the debate. that's his job, his duty. more than one million hungarians are facing significant financial burdens or other restrictions on their travel within the union simply because they have been vaccinated with chinese or russian vaccines not authorised by the eu and not accepted automatically by member states. the hungarian government has so far been unable to reach a bilateral agreement with most eu member states on the acceptance of vaccines, so this would be an opportunity for orbán to ask his colleagues, the prime minister and the head of state, to do so. they'll all be sitting at the table. the hungarian prime minister should also make the issue of the third vaccination a formal or informal topic of the european council meeting: ensuring that at least one third of the eu vaccines received are sufficient for unrestricted travel by hungarians vaccinated against the virus. i'm lobbying the eu institutions on this issue, but it's useless if the current hungarian government doesn't take any action.
- the question for oral answer to the council on the un climate change conference in glasgow, united kingdom (cop26) by pascal canfin, lídia pereira, javi lópez, nils torvalds, catherine griset, pär holmgren, anna zalewska, petros kokkalis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000065/0000 - b9-0039/21) (2021/2667(rsp), and the question for oral answer to the commission on the un climate change conference in glasgow, united kingdom (cop26) by mr j.p. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments on the draft legislative proposal to the council.
deputising for the author. – madam president, we now turn to a very important discussion on climate change and the climate conference that we’re going to have in glasgow in two weeks’ time, which is very clearly going to be one of the most important climate conferences we’ve seen in the last couple of years, where member states of the world need to be stepping up their climate ambition. if you look at climate science and the latest ipcc report that was launched in august this summer, it is becoming more and more clear that the climate impacts are more severe and there are clearer reasons to limit global warming well below two degrees, as we said in the paris agreement. we have now very clearly said that we want to keep it below 1.5 degrees. if you look at the current pledges on the table, we are not on track. what’s even worse is that, at this stage, if we look at all the national pledges around the world, emissions are still expected to rise by 2030. however, the ipcc and climate science is making very clear that by 2030, in order to keep 1.5 degrees within reach, we need a reduction of 45% by 2030 globally. yet we are not on track if we look at the current pledges. this is also why the glasgow moment is so important for raising the ambition of all the different countries in the world. we are very much aware – and this is also described in the resolution – of the achievements and the changes that we have seen in the united states. however, we are, of course, also concerned about the developments in the united states in translating their promises into legislation, and there we see some issues as well, which are sure to be debated in glasgow. but we are also very concerned about the other big player: china. their pledges to reach carbon neutrality by 2060 and the peak of emissions by 2030 are insufficient if we look at what needs to happen. we will make that message also very clear. we also expect stronger commitments from some of our partner countries. a country like australia is certainly worth mentioning, because they have not yet come forward with climate neutrality targets despite all the other developed countries doing so. looking at europe – and this is clearly in the resolution – we comment on the ‘fit for 55’ and the package that is there upfront. however, we do realise that steps need to be taken within europe to translate that into law. the proposals have been made by the commission, but we as a house, and also the member states, need to develop on that. very importantly – and this is probably also an assignment for the european commission – there is still a lack of mainstreaming of the green deal and climate policies into all the areas and fields. i would certainly also like to mention climate finance here. in this regard, maybe it would sometimes be good to refer to the paris agreement, because quite often people talk about the paris agreement, but you sometimes wonder whether people have really read the paris agreement. article 2, the backbone of the paris agreement, makes very clear that things need to happen on mitigation and adaptation, but the third element of article 2 very clearly also obliges all the signatories of the paris agreement to make their financial flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development. so the third pillar of the paris agreement, besides mitigation, adaptation, is making the financial flows consistent with our low carbon pathways. here is another assignment for europe where action is still to be taken. looking at all the issues that are on the table, at the rulebook, we are happy that europe is finally taking steps on the common five years’ timeframe. indeed, it was probably about time to take steps there. but we also just want to stress once again that action need to be expected from aviation and maritime. here too, it is very important to state that aviation and maritime do fall under the paris agreement. there was a decision that maybe two other un bodies could handle this, but maritime and aviation do fall under the paris commitments. sometimes some people say that they’re not part of the paris commitments. i think we need to make that point very clear. for the rest of the resolution, i think it’s very clear on innovation, on competitiveness. it also very much welcomes the carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) as part of the ‘fit for 55’ package, so that this entire package makes very clear that europe can deliver on the promises it makes, so that we will ensure that in glasgow we have a leading role. that’s probably our final point. let this leading role also be seen on some of the sectoral agreements on coal phase-out, the end of the combustion engine. these are the kinds of discussions that are being done in glasgow as well, and we expect europe to be at the forefront of that debate.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it is a great pleasure to address you today to discuss the preparation ahead of cop26, which will take place in glasgow very soon. after the postponement of cop last year and a stark reminder in the last ipcc report of the dangers of climate change, it is more urgent than ever to strengthen global climate action and to finalise without delay the implementation of the paris agreement. it is important that the world comes out of glasgow with bold climate targets and an ambitious and effective rulebook to guide global mitigation and adaptation measures for the years to come. as you noted in your question, cop26 has four major objectives. first, is to substantively raise global emission reduction and commit to achieve net zero emissions in line with the latest scientific findings, in order to keep 1.5 degrees within reach. second, to finalize the rulebook on the issue of carbon markets, as well as to agree on a common time frame, aligning the timelines of the climate pledges of all parties and ensure that global climate action is conducted in a transparent and accountable manner. third, to strengthen global adaptation measures and building resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change. and fourth, to increase the global efforts to meet the climate finance pledge of usd 100 billion a year to developing countries. for each of these objectives, the eu negotiation position is clear. as you know, the council adopted earlier this month its conclusions on the eu position at cop26. the conclusion emphasised the extreme urgency of stepping up the global response to address the climate emergency and underlined the need for a just and fair climate position across the world. regarding the rulebook on article 6, the agreement to be reached at cop26 should ensure a robust accounting for the use of international carbon markets, avoid double counting and also guarantee environmental integrity and ambition. in glasgow, the eu will also express its preference for a common time frame of five years for all parties, with a view to reaching consensus during the negotiation. moreover, the eu will insist on transparency and accountability to be delivered through the enhanced transparency framework, which will be essential to build and maintain trust among parties as we implement our commitments. finally, as regards climate finance, the eu and its member states will continue scaling up their contribution to international climate finance as part of the goal of developed countries to collectively mobilise usd 100 billion per year through 2025 and will continue to urge other developed countries to do the same. the eu and its member states are the largest contributor of international public climate finance and since 2013 have more than doubled their contribution. i understand that the commission and some member states have further strengthened their pledges ahead of the meeting in glasgow. in any event, the eu will engage constructively with the other parties to ensure a stronger climate finance goal for the post—2025 period. president, honourable members, a number of parties, ngos, young people gathered last month in milan and the public at large have called on the cop to do more to address the climate emergency. they are right. the world is currently not on the path to keep global warming well below 2 degrees and keep 1.5 degrees within reach. many more collective efforts are needed to keep our planet’s temperature within safe limits. in this context, at cop26, the eu wants to negotiate an ambitious and effective implementation of the paris agreement, and we call on all parties to come forward with strengthened national emissions reduction targets and international climate finance pledges.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for the opportunity to have this important debate as we look ahead to preparations for the upcoming 26th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in glasgow. science demonstrates that global average temperatures will exceed 1.5 degrees within the next 20 years in all scenarios. the united nations report on the parties’ nationally determined contributions revealed that we are well off the paris consistent pathways necessary to respond. however, limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees by the end of the century, with the temperature overshoot, is still possible. it is still possible if parties achieve drastic cuts in emissions in the coming decade and net zero emissions around 2050. significantly increased global mitigation efforts will reduce the risks and impacts of climate change, but we will also need to collectively and urgently scale up our efforts to adapt to the many unprecedented and irreversible changes in the climate systems in all regions of the world. as if all this was not enough, the latest report from the oecd shows that the donor community is off track from reaching the goal of mobilising usd 100 billion annually from 2020 to 2025. against this background, the cop26 council conclusions, adopted two weeks ago, set out the eu’s main political objectives for glasgow: raising global ambition, enhancing resilience and scaling up climate finance. we have a strong responsibility to those societies most vulnerable and existentially threatened by climate change. these are exactly the messages executive vice-president timmermans is bringing to the many countries he is visiting and to the many meetings he is holding, also this week and today, to prepare for cop26. the eu has been consistently calling upon all parties, particularly the world’s largest economies and biggest emitters, to step up their game before glasgow. the nationally determined contributions and net zero strategies of all parties should set each of us on a path to net zero emissions, in line with the principles of progression and the highest possible ambitions, as set out in the paris agreement. in particular, parties in g20 countries that haven’t enhanced their nationally determined contributions (ndcs) or have not submitted net zero strategies need to come forward as soon as possible. furthermore, we can only ensure the effective implementation of the paris agreement by all parties if we have a robust and ambitious framework of rules. therefore, cop26 should address the single element of the rule book left outstanding from the previous two conferences – the guidance on voluntary cooperation and market-based mechanisms under article 6 of the paris agreement – as well as conclude arrangements under the enhanced transparency framework, which is the backbone of a well—functioning paris agreement. securing a meaningful outcome for market measures under article 6 of the paris agreement is a key priority for the eu. compromises that put environmental integrity at risk are not acceptable to us. fostering global ambition, ensuring environmental integrity and avoiding double counting are at the core of the paris agreement and of the eu position on market mechanisms. ambition is not only mitigation action. cop26 should deliver a signal that priority must be given to adaptation. the eu will contribute fully to achieving the paris agreement global goal on adaptation by enhancing resilience both at home and in vulnerable communities around the world. this is why we adopted an adaptation strategy for the eu, which was submitted to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) ahead of glasgow and calls for the other parties also to communicate how they are stepping up their respective adaptation actions. the cop outcome should also provide a sense of balance in the treatment of mitigation and adaptation, which is a key concern for our developing country partners. the eu remains fully committed to a sustained and increased investment in enhancing resilience and adaptation in the most disaster—prone countries and regions. international cooperation on adaptation is a highlight of the new strategy, with a priority for africa, least developed countries and small island developing states. furthermore, the eu and its member states support many activities to avert, minimise and address loss and damage through development cooperation, disaster risk reduction and humanitarian aid, as well as dedicated climate funds, organisations and initiatives inside and outside the climate process. however, we must be mindful that all actors must step up their efforts to face the challenges of climate change. we need to advocate for mainstreaming the climate issue in other relevant policy areas so that we can better consider the risks and needs of the most vulnerable in all our support efforts and in international processes. we have to do this in the same way that the eu supports mainstreaming of climate action across all financial flows, including development institutions. action demands resources and we should continue showing our solidarity to the most vulnerable countries. the eu and its 27 member states remain the largest contributor of public climate finance to developing countries, including to the multilateral climate funds, and contributed eur 21.9 billion in climate finance for 2019. this is double the level in 2013. as you know, president von der leyen, just last month, committed an additional eur 4 billion until 2027. as part of a global effort, the eu will continue to take the lead in mobilising climate finance from a wide variety of sources, instruments and channels. these include instruments to unlock the huge potential of private finance through the targeted use of public climate finance. therefore, it is crucial to make swift and ambitious progress on making all finance flows consistent with the paris agreement. to this end, following the commission’s action plan on financing sustainable growth and the follow—up strategy for financing the transition to a sustainable economy, progress is being made on various fronts: on an eu taxonomy for environmentally sustainable economic activities, on sustainability—related disclosures for issuers and for financial market participants, on the european green bond standard, and on corporate sustainability reporting. that is encouraging, but we must continue to catalyse and accelerate action from all economic actors to reach the objectives of the paris agreement. we see leaders from the private sector, civil society, youth and other stakeholders coming together to show determination to accelerate transformative change on a scale that has not been seen before. all this demonstrates increasing awareness of the need for global climate action. finally, climate change, the biodiversity crisis and desertification, as well as land, water and ocean degradation, are strongly interconnected and reinforce each other. climate change and the nature crisis can only be successfully addressed in a coherent approach that comprises mutually beneficial strategies, including nature—based solutions with safeguards. we cannot solve one crisis without solving the other. this was very clearly highlighted by the recent joint report by the un, the ipcc and the intergovernmental science-policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services, and this must also be reflected in the upcoming two cops. we saw a positive first part of the biodiversity cop15 in kunming last week, and we will pursue our efforts in this regard, also in view of the second part of cop15, which will reconvene in face—to—face mode in kunming next spring. therefore, the eu will continue pursuing closer cooperation and synergies between the un, the unfccc and the un convention on biological diversity, including the alignment with the post—2020 global biodiversity framework, and we will further advance measures for mutually reinforcing co-benefits for climate mitigation and adaptation and halting biodiversity loss. we should all offer our strong support to the uk cop26 presidency with a view to a successful outcome in glasgow.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr commissioner, in the face of the climate emergency we cannot compete with each other, we cannot confront each other in fact, it is this zero-sum logic that the world has entered in many of its dimensions ; in the face of the climate emergency we can only do one thing, which is to cooperate: cooperate with each other, cooperate so that the international community complies with the agreements already established such as the paris agreement , cooperate for a rapid and deep reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and cooperate so that the global emergency that climate change has become becomes collective global action. and the biggest instrument for cooperation that we have is the cop, the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, and, at the important cop meeting that we are now going to hold in glasgow, what the european parliament wants to express, hopefully, but also with demand, is that we need immediate, ambitious and concrete progress to combat climate change, progress so that the g20 as a whole commits to being climate neutral by the year 2050. we've had some good news, haven't we? some relevant developments in this area from europe, from the united states, from japan, from china... but we need more, we need to determine national contributions and progress on this: we need progress on meeting climate finance commitments - it should be 100 billion for developing countries; we need progress on regulating carbon markets. the pandemic has taught us what humanity is capable of with collective will and with the ability to mobilise resources and funding; now should be the time to set up a green global recovery that europe is able to lead in the world, accelerate the abandonment of our dependence on fossil fuels and push for a climate agenda that goes hand in hand with a just and social transition, because the planet and our lives, our way of life, are at stake.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, to not repeat what my colleagues have already said, i have a map with me. you probably can’t see all the details of the map, but it’s actually very interesting. on this side, you see what china has been building and is planning in terms of coal power production. this is india. this is the united states. this map could easily be used to pinpoint and point fingers at developing countries. but this is not actually what i’m trying to convey in this speech. there is a more interesting part when you look at the technological side of the factories, because all of a sudden you see a lot of western companies actually doing a lot of work in these parts of the world, where they are earning dirty money by building power stations fired by coal. so i think what we have to do in glasgow is to find the leadership and show that this is not the way forward. we need to show that there are other technologies and we need to be generous with these technologies, because those who are in need of them won’t have the money to use them unless we give it to them. therefore, as my friend commissioner sinkevičius said on developing countries, doing something to get the money on the table is very important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. at the last cop in madrid, the european council - later than the european parliament, but at least - voted for climate neutrality by 2050, and now it is law in europe. we have spoken to many members of parliament and representatives of other nations in madrid and encouraged them to follow this path. japan, south africa, the united states and canada and many others have done so. i agree with the resolution that we need to do more with china, because carbon neutrality in 2060 is certainly not enough. but i think it is particularly shameful that australia, as a rich industrial country, has not yet made such a commitment, and we have to work hard on that. international climate policy must be a priority at all levels. and we also need to do more - the vice-chairman was right - in shipping and aviation. we should not argue that we have a national or european air column and that if we decarbonise it, everything will be fine, but we need to work much more internationally and together. but i strongly disagree with all those who say that we should make some cuts in the package of 55 pounds because we have high energy prices. renewable energy and energy efficiency can be like the coronavirus vaccine: if we invest, we become immune to high fossil fuel prices. and if the disease gets worse, then the same thing happens with corona, as with the high energy prices: then you can't stop producing the vaccine, but then you have to speed up the vaccination. therefore, it is too fit for 55 precisely because of the high energy prices.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the un recently calculated that even if all countries' current climate pledges were met, global emissions would still rise, equivalent to temperatures rising by as much as 2.7 degrees by the year 2100. and that is absolutely disastrous. no less than that. reducing global emissions to zero by 2050 is the only way forward. but it's too slow. we simply have to raise our climate ambitions. renewable energy, energy efficiency, it's absolutely critical in the green transition. we need to roll out all available, clean and efficient technologies as quickly as possible. and here in the european parliament, we have a huge task ahead of us to implement the european green deal. it can only go too slowly, and climate must and must be taken into account in all eu policies. ladies and gentlemen, the climate summit in glasgow is the most important climate summit in recent times. this is where we can and should hopefully raise our ambitions. and this is where the eu really needs to lead.
mr president, commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the planet is burning with mega-heaters, it is sinking with floods and every european woman, every european woman is feeling the effects of climate change in her own flesh today. but we too often forget the famine in madagascar or the floods in india. and yet, we're only 1.2 degrees from global warming. at the current rate, 1.5 degrees is not for the end of the century, but for the end of the decade. if all the commitments, all the promises are kept, it will be 2.5 degrees and catastrophe. if we don't act, it's going to be 3.5 degrees and chaos. the ipcc tells us all about the responsibilities and the origin of this climate disorder. but what we care about here is political responsibility, and today what prevents us from having a future that is good for us and our children is political conformity, complacency or, too often, alienation from powerful lobbies, those lobbies of the old world, those lobbies of dirty energy or intensive agriculture. we see it every day from a political point of view: the common agricultural policy is not compatible, trade policy is not compatible with our climate agenda. and what we have today are victims of climate change, victims of the energy crisis. so we have to invest in energy saving, in renewable energy. and if there is to be a takeover in glasgow, it will be the end of fossil fuel subsidies. at the global level, at the european level, 50 billion or 100 billion of public subsidies for fossil fuels is unacceptable! for us, for our children, let's end the subsidies to fossil fuels.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. important decisions need to be taken in glasgow on binding co2 reduction targets, funding and adaptation to climate change. the epp would also like to see the eu appoint a climate commissioner with cabinet rank to work with government representatives from the other 160 countries to advance climate action. because only if we get the world to phase out coal, and build renewable energy, and energy efficiency, and hydrogen, and do disaster preparedness together, will we be able to stop global warming. the united states has understood. yes, we need a john kerry too, and no, a vice-president timmermans for climate policy is not enough, because as we see, he has his hands full to push the green deal forward properly within the eu. the new budget sets a target of 30% of our expenditure, for example in development policy and agricultural policy, on climate action. the taxonomy is also intended to channel financial flows in a sustainable way. we need someone who's going to be consistent and efficient. otherwise, all our efforts will be wasted. otherwise, we may not be the model for the world, and we may not learn enough from our partners. so please: let's take a good example and put the eu in a better position on international climate policy with a high-level climate commissioner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in a few days, the climate conference in glasgow will begin, and many scientists say this is the last chance to put the world on a 1.5 degree path. because right now we're heading for a catastrophic 2.7 degrees. today, the production gap report was released, and it shows that, under current plans, 240% more coal, 57% more oil and 71% more gas would be produced by 2030 than would be acceptable for 1.5 degrees. we would be sleepwalking into climate catastrophe, and our children and grandchildren would still find the debates being held here today about subsidies for fossil gas or energy-intensive plastic production absurd. i hear from colleagues in this house again and again that the eu must not go too far and that other countries should do something too. yes, of course, all states must abide by the paris agreement. but the convention also makes it crystal clear that the industrial nations, with their historically high emissions, have an obligation to do more and be climate neutral by 2050. let's get to it. the solutions are there, the renewables have become cheap, the efficiency measures are ultimately self-financing. we just have to do it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in two weeks, politicians and a steadily growing number of self-appointed climate elites will meet again to fight the self-inflicted disasters with words and a lot of money. in an incomparable, crazy travel spectacle, you come together from all over the world with the help of the evil co2 which you would naturally like to ban the citizens are being disciplined, whether it be in their movement, their housing, and more recently even in their eating habits and - not to forget - in their new green thinking. but have you ever wondered what right you have to think that your cause and your supposedly unremitting travel is more important than the commute of a father or a mother who, by the way, finances your cause and your travel? in glasgow, you'll have 240-ton electric super-suvs at your disposal to make you feel better. unfortunately, the charging stations are missing, so generators are being brought in to run on hydrogenated frying fat - or so the plan goes. two years ago in madrid, behind huge exhibition halls, container-like piles of trash that had previously wrapped your woke climate food. your pippi longstocking climate world is simply failing to meet the harsh realities of the day, but it's giving the taxpayer record prices that you don't care about. the service will do the filling. it's time you tasted your own poison. stay indoors, turn off the heat, and eat a vegan diet of locally grown crops, harvested under the moonlight. this would be a start instead of glasgow, we would continue to distribute taxpayers' money in the billions throughout the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. six years after paris, we're going to the climate conference with climate targets and measures that don't even meet the 2 degree climate target. this is just disappointing. it is not helpful to point fingers at other countries and say: they are not making any more either. let's go back to our own front door! if we really want to be a global leader, that means no new fossil fuel subsidies; then that means an end date for natural gas, and it means joining the initiative of other countries that are committing to a zero-carbon by 2030. the question to the commission is: will we be part of this initiative? our yardstick must be whether future generations can still live on this planet, still enjoy the same freedoms as we do. that's what it's all about: the 1.5 degree target. we greens argue that the european union is doing just that and is therefore truly leading the way in climate protection.
madam president, the rise of the far right is a serious threat to our societies. the far right used the crisis at a demonstration in rome to spread its racist, fascist and misinformation ideas. some have brandished the health passport as a check on their freedom. throughout the european union, far-right groups are using the passport and vaccination and targeting the most vulnerable layers of society with their conspiracy theories. they find in these communities fertile ground for their false information and even compare themselves to victims of the holocaust and slavery. this is unacceptable. it is time to tackle the rise of racism that is gangrenous in society across europe. at the european youth meetings, eye 2021, here in strasbourg, in the heart of democracy, we had similar facts. young people from the far right have harassed young muslim girls. they massively disrupted the workshops with hateful rhetoric and racist remarks. let's not close our eyes. let's fight against racism. this growing phenomenon is damaging to social cohesion in our states.
madam president, mr minister, commissioner, what are we talking about here? right-wing violence? - you mean it? last week in stuttgart two members of antifa were sentenced to long prison terms for beating three members of a conservative trade union half to death. the eu parliament and mrs dalli's reaction: no. in leipzig, recently, 1,300 police officers were not enough to keep the antifa in check. heavy stone slabs were thrown from the houses at police officers these are clear attempted murders. the eu parliament and mrs dalli's reaction: no. in berlin last week, 3,500 police officers were not enough to clear a far-left camp. there were serious riots again, and several policemen were injured. the eu parliament and mrs dalli's reaction: no. the afd in particular has been subject to repeated attacks by the extreme left. in berlin alone, about 30 cars were torched by afd members, including mine. our homes are being attacked, our offices, our homes, our families, our mps. the reaction in any case is zero. and so, mrs dalli, i'm going to give you a clear job order: wake up! do something about the murderous left-wing extremism! that would be a sensible job for you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i really want to thank especially maria spyraki for her great leadership on this file and to all colleagues who have contributed so much to making this own-initiative report a really strong call for action. maria has already pointed out that we need to tackle all sectors. we must not focus only on the energy sector, as the commission proposed in its methane strategy last year, but we need to focus on agriculture too, since this is the biggest contributor in the european union, and the waste sector. we have heard of the global methane pledge. of course, this is a fantastic document of international cooperation but, unfortunately, it falls short of what is actually needed. a 45% reduction by 2030 is possible, and it is necessary if we want to stand a chance to get onto the 1.5 degree path, which is really important because our survival may hang on this number. so we need binding targets for all sectors. i want to reiterate that measurement, reporting and verification (mrv) and the leak detection and repair programme (ldar) should therefore be tackled in the legislation and not limited to the energy sector. and they have to be implemented as quickly as possible, for example by 2023. the same goes for venting and flaring. and, of course, we must extend our legislation to the imports, so give the suppliers a clear timeline for their right to export to the eu. they have to adhere to this legislation. but, of course, this must not be used as an excuse to prolong the use of fossil fuels. the phase-out of fossil fuels is the most valid instrument for reducing methane emissions in the energy sector.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the report therefore addresses methane emissions, which, according to the present report, are the second most important greenhouse gas after co2. the sources are clearly identified as agriculture (40%), fossil fuels (35%) and waste (20%). since the green notion of an end to fossil fuels due to co2 emissions is a consensus that was probably decided yesterday, two things remain: agriculture specifically livestock and fertilisers are the main sources. the solutions remain vague: vegan diets, the use of any residues in biogas plants fertilizer would no longer exist in the ideal vegan world and that in a bioeconomy new skills and new knowledge somehow fell from the climate sky. and by the way, the nitrogen fertilizer is needed more than ever in a vegan world. it may be true that 53% of methane emissions in the eu come from agriculture. but only 5% of global emissions come from the eu, so the eu's share of agricultural methane emissions is only 2.6% globally. even if you completely stop eating right now, you're not going to save the world. that's the bad news. the good news is - at least for me - that over 6.5 billion people on earth are not affected by their ridiculous eu ban policy.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. poland, poland, poland, poland again and again! the left in this parliament has repeatedly put poland on the agenda. and if you don't find anything up-to-date, you're talking about an anniversary, about an alleged abortion ban that doesn't actually exist. but i like this concept. i also have a few anniversaries that i'd like to discuss with you here, like the anniversary of the attack on the bataclan theater by muslim migrants, the anniversary of the attack in berlin by a muslim migrant, the anniversary of new year's eve in cologne in 2015 with over 1,000 sexual assaults on women by - you'll guess it - muslim migrants, the anniversaries of the attacks on charlie hebdo and the murder of samuel paty, and then the anniversaries of the attacks in london, amsterdam, brussels, hamburg, dresden, vienna, nice, barcelona, stockholm, and so on and so forth. do you see anything? warsaw, krakow, katowice, gdansk and wroclaw are not on this list, and neither is budapest. perhaps the polish government - and the hungarian government too - is doing much more right than many in the chamber suspect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to express my opposition to the ruling of the polish constitutional court which significantly restricts a woman's right to choose an abortion. on the one hand, abortion is indeed a matter of national policy in the individual member states, but on the other hand, it must be said that the freedom of a woman to choose is a universal right of women who are not only poles but also citizens of the european union. and that is why we should address this, why i welcome this debate and why the european commission should discuss this with the polish government. the universality of human rights, the protection of human rights is the agenda of the european union. it is one of the values on which european integration is based, so i ask you, commissioner, to pay attention to it. let's put pressure on the polish government, let's deal with the polish government. it is necessary to find legislation that is defensible in today's european context. it is not possible for women nationals of one member state to have such restricted rights compared with women nationals of other member states. this is unacceptable in the long term, also because there is hypocrisy and women who want to have an abortion have to travel from poland to other member states. that means that this solution is completely unprofitable, inappropriate and, in my view, indefensible.
madam president, member states and the extreme right do not own their citzens, not even women. women’s rights are human rights, because women are human beings. that’s why sexual and reproductive rights and the right to an abortion are human rights, and human rights are part of the rule of law. this gross and aggravated offence to women’s rights that is happening in poland, caused by this arbitrary and extrajudicial government, is exactly the reason why we need stronger tools in the rule of law and in non—discrimination in the eu. we also need to keep a very close eye on what is happening in other member states, for example in slovakia. indeed, i hope that, if my rights were threatened in finland by this kind of arbitrary extreme-rightist government, someone in the eu would step up and fight for my rights. so it is my duty to fight for the rights of polish citizens and polish women.
madam president, the de facto abortion ban of the polish pis government is a fundamental breach of fundamental human rights, and i can repeat again: we will not accept it here in this house in the european parliament. democracy and women’s rights are intrinsically linked. if you attack the one, you also violate the other. the european union will take action. i call for freezing the funds of the pis government. let me also remind you it is part of the responsibility as government to support human rights activists and ngos and not to have them arrested, brutalised and chased in court cases, as is happening right now. it is utter disrespect of the european parliament to sue an expert we invited to hear on the many issues women are facing in poland and why. therefore, full solidarity with all those fantastic women’s rights defenders in poland on the streets. full support for all of you.
madam president! i wanted to ask you, do you know what hypocrisy is? i can show you this with a very simple example. hypocrisy is pretending to protect human life from conception to natural death. instead of giving women in desperate situations a hand, nurturing them, and supporting them, they are ruthlessly pushed into the illegal underground, where their health and lives are at risk, or sent abroad. respect for life? the hypocrisy of this government, of the members of the ruling party, and of those in this room, is simply intolerable. on our eastern border, by the decisions of this very government that pretends to protect life, adults and children behind barbed wire are dying of hunger, thirst and cold. let me just say that they are also conceived children, but they are grown up now, and it's really not their fault. i'm not appealing to the polish government for anything anymore because i have no illusions and i'm very sorry.
member of the commission. – madam president, strong women’s rights are an asset and an achievement that the whole of europe must be proud of. we should not take them for granted, though. we can only achieve a union of equality if all women in europe have access to good quality health care and their fundamental rights are guaranteed and respected. the eu4health regulation intends to address health inequalities. this is, of course, also valid for access to sexual and reproductive healthcare. in fact, the eu4health programme can be used to support member states’ actions to promote access to sexual and reproductive healthcare, and support integrated and intersectional approaches to prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care. the commission will continue to support member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals related and relevant to women’s health, such as on universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education. the commission calls on member states to ensure the respect of their obligations in line with international human rights law. we stand in solidarity with the women in poland who have shown resistance and resilience. strong women’s rights are an asset for the whole of the european union.
the chairman of the council. madam president, commissioner, members of the european parliament and the european parliament. i listened carefully to the debate today. as i mentioned in the introduction, abortion and reproductive rights are highly sensitive and complex issues, including legal and ethical aspects, which also trigger a number of responses. i would like to reiterate that the law of the european union on abortion is, in principle, without prejudice to the constitutional decisions or provisions and other national legislation of the member states. at the same time, i can assure you that the presidency will do everything in its power to protect women, as this issue is of great importance to it. thank you so much.
we're going to change the subject. i'm waiting for commissioner mcguinness to arrive. maybe we'll wait for the commissioner for a few minutes. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. this debate is a show of solidarity with the thousands of polish citizens who took to the streets in poland last year. we also support the thousands of poles who demonstrated for poland to remain in the eu and protested against the government on 10 october 2021. the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and respect for civil liberties are essential to a democratic country. we cannot stand by and watch as the rights of women, girls or lgbt people are called into question. i therefore support the call on the polish government to implement the judgments of the european court of justice and the european commission's recommendation on the rule of law, including the composition of the constitutional tribunal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu commission is calling for the creation of another eu supervisory agency, stricter cash controls and an eu asset register. under the guise of combating money laundering, what all citizens own, buy, sell and do is recorded and monitored. this isn't about money laundering. hungary's law regulating the funding of lgbt and migration ngos, foreign universities and media was overturned by the ecj as an interference with the freedom of capital. but if the eu itself restricts the freedom of capital, then that is legal. even the eu's court of auditors complains that the eu is doing nothing to combat money laundering in the smuggling of migrants - after all, it is a €6 billion industry. this is about citizen surveillance, invasion of privacy and the gradual abolition of cash, not money laundering and tax evasion.
president, commissioner, the european money laundering rules are as leaky as a bucket. the european court of auditors knows it, parliament knows it and since the pandora papers the whole world knows it. but i am here with hope, because the requirements for a strong approach are clear: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve transparency about the owners of letterbox companies, including those outside the eu, more resources for financial intelligence units, a strong european authority with resources and a clear mandate to close the loopholes. the european parliament will be giving its opinion on this tomorrow. and in the coming months, we can help to make those demands and wishes come true. the new commission proposals on money laundering are a good step and with the current momentum, which i believe we are seeing in this house, a much more stringent approach is within reach. and that's what's needed to close all the leaks. because financial crime should not pay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the results of the fight against money laundering are unfortunately quite clear. although the damage to public coffers has amounted to several billion euros, the eu has not yet adopted a unified strategy to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. the directive has been revised five times. there have been regular infringement proceedings, unfortunately also, as mr ferber has already indicated, against our beautiful country germany. that is why it is so important that the commission has now put forward a proposal for a regulation. this regulation will then finally have the binding character that we very, very badly need. we also need strict and well-coordinated supervision. the newly created authority can be an important building block. but that's not all. the member states' specialised agencies must also work more effectively and thoroughly. the new eu authority must therefore not only support the national authorities but also coordinate their cooperation. we must be careful, however, that this does not end up making the work of the national authorities more bureaucratic and complicated.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for what has been a very lively debate. as many of you have said, this political agreement which we have reached is truly historic, and the commission will work at full speed to implement it. in parallel, the commission will continue working on its business tax agenda. firstly, by cracking down on tax avoidance and evasion. here, the commission is already preparing new legislative initiatives that will enhance tax transparency and bring new elements under the umbrella of automatic exchanges of information to reinforce further the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. this includes a proposal before the end of this year to tackle the misuse of shell companies for tax purposes in the eu. commissioner gentiloni already touched on this when he spoke here two weeks ago. secondly, safeguarding revenues needed for our recovery and growth, while making us more competitive. the commission will launch a broader reflection on the right tax mix for the future, and this reflection should conclude in 2022 in a tax symposium on the ‘eu tax mix on the road to 2050’, in which i would invite you all to actively participate. the commission counts on the support of the european parliament to make progress on this agenda quickly and with the highest level of ambition.
the chairman of the council. mr president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a global community of citizens. i listened carefully to today's debate and i can say that it was united in its desire to recognise together the successes achieved in harmonising tax legislation at global level. in this respect, i think we can all be optimistic that the reform of the rules on international corporate taxation will be successfully implemented. not during the slovenian presidency during future presidencies, in a year or two. in this case, therefore, we expect the commission to make a concrete proposal as soon as possible on the proposal for a directive to implement the second pillar and, of course, to consider the need for a directive to implement the first pillar. in any event, the slovenian presidency will do everything in its power to speed up this agreement or to coordinate the member states' positions in order to reach this agreement as soon as possible. - thank you. - thank you.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.34 p.m.)
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 to 9.15 p.m. i'm asking you to participate fully. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 9.15 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. the debate will resume at 8.30 p.m. with the debate on the council and commission statements on the forcible return of migrants to the eu's external borders (2021/2932(rsp)). (the sitting was suspended at 8.01 p.m.)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, in recent months, we have been witnessing a change in the geopolitical situation in the neighbouring regions and attempts to instrumentalise migration. for this reason, effective management of our external borders is crucial. the schengen borders code must be applied in compliance with relevant eu and international law on human rights, including obligations related to access to international protection and the principle of non-refoulement, the cornerstone of both international refugee law and international human rights law. we are aware of several reports on alleged pushbacks and mistreatment at the external borders. i can guarantee that the presidency, the member states and the eu institutions are taking these allegations very seriously. violent pushbacks cannot be allowed to take place on eu soil. member states that have allegedly been involved in migrant pushbacks are investigating the published report in depth and taking all necessary corrective actions. as you are aware, flights and internal transport are being organised to facilitate the transit of migrants through belarus to lithuania, latvia and poland. irregular arrivals in lithuania in 2021 are more than 50 times higher than those in 2020, and poland and latvia have also faced increased irregular border crossings from belarus. it is not only the countries along the external eu border that are exposed and under severe pressure due to these hybrid attacks from the belarusian regime. we are already witnessing secondary movement further into the eu. we need to adequately address attempts to instrumentalise for political purposes and other hybrid threats. in order to achieve this, we need a swift concrete and common solution at eu level and, as we know, the eu council will discuss this issue. effective control of our external borders is crucial for the prevention of security risks, illegal border-crossing and possible migration pressure. we must take advantage of all existing tools in order to have a better overview of who is entering the eu. one of those tools is the european asylum dactyloscopy database (eurodac). a swift adoption of the proposal to revise the system is one of our priorities in the field of home affairs. the presidency believes that the revised eurodac could play an essential role in preventing abuse of the asylum system and secondary movements of migrants.
member of the commission. – madam president, two weeks ago, investigative journalists from lighthouse reports published allegations of violent pushbacks at our eu borders. you called for this debate in response to those reports, and i thank you for that. this is not the first time we get such reports. the commission has received numerous allegations of pushbacks, including from the unhcr. violence at our borders is never acceptable, especially if it is structured and organised. we must protect our eu external borders while upholding fundamental rights, and it’s possible to do both. the very next day, after the media published these reports, i raised them at the justice and home affairs council on 7 october, and i raised these reports in personal meetings with the croatian minister of the interior, davor božinović, and with the greek minister of migration, notis mitarachi. the croatian minister announced an investigation, and since then, the croatian national chief of police said that three policemen involved in violent pushbacks will face disciplinary proceedings. and i received assurances that any necessary follow up action will be taken. my services have been in touch with the romanian authorities, and the romanian minister is taking these allegations very seriously and has ordered an investigation. he is ready to take disciplinary measures or initiate criminal proceedings if the investigation concludes that there have been wrongdoings. i expect greece now to also investigate these allegations swiftly and thoroughly. it is the duty of national authorities to investigate allegations and follow up any wrongdoing. lighthouse reports also published claims of abuse of eu funding. i have asked national authorities in croatia, greece and romania to investigate any confirmed reports of misuse of funds, and the commission will not hesitate to ask its competent authority, olaf, to conduct investigations. the commission will take action if such allegations are confirmed and will recover the funds unduly used. european taxpayers expect us to protect our borders and to uphold our rules. as a union, we must move beyond investigations to effective border management that links border protection, to protection of fundamental rights, and in our new pact on migration and asylum, we have this approach. the commission proposes to set up an independent monitoring mechanism at the border as part of a new screening procedure. it’s high time to implement the pact and especially the independent monitoring mechanism. these words were spoken last week by gillian triggs, assistant high-commissioner of the unhcr, at a conference in malta. i couldn’t agree more. independent observers can help to establish what is really going on and bring transparency and trust. croatia has already set up a monitoring mechanism. it now needs to be fully implemented. greece also needs an independent monitoring mechanism and should now turn bilateral assurances into action. i encourage greece to make progress, but this is not only about croatia or greece. i call on all member states not to wait for the pact and already now set up independent monitoring mechanism under their respective national law provisions. pushbacks should never be normalised, pushbacks should never be legalised. at least seven people have died so far at our external borders with belarus. these deaths are unacceptable. the situation is unprecedented. on the other side of the border is a violent, aggressive, illegitimate regime. a desperate regime under sanctions by the european union, sending people to the border and into harm’s way. the belarusian regime doesn’t care about people’s lives. people pay a lot of money to state-owned companies to be brought to minsk, and they’re facilitated to the border with the eu. once there, the belarusian border guards change their attitude from helping migrants to reach the border to violently preventing them from going back. our priority is to save lives and to save lives we must stop the regime. during the last plenary session, i outlined our eu action against the regime in belarus. it’s time to discuss further sanctions. on our own side of the border, transparency is now paramount. full transparency to avoid rumours and unsubstantiated reports allows us to concentrate on supporting poland and the people at risk. we are not the belarusian regime. we are the european union. we hold ourselves to the rule of law. as the president said here this week, yesterday in fact, the rule of law protects the values on which our union is founded: freedom, democracy, equality and respect for human rights. as a commission, we do not usually comment on draft laws, but reports suggest that the proposal in the amended polish aliens law, to give border guards autonomy to grant access to an asylum procedure or not, is already in practice on the ground. my services are in discussion with the polish authorities on its compliance with the eu acquis. the weather is getting worse. eu obligations must be applied immediately to protect vulnerable people, especially children. we must protect people’s lives, their rights and their dignity, as well as our borders. member states must conduct investigations to establish the facts and take actions, set up independent monitoring systems and ensure transparency. and all of us must now work together to get an agreement on the pact.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, to begin with the obvious, the european union, each member state, everyone acting on their behalf need to comply with fundamental rights obligation. at the same time, they are also by national, european and international law obliged to protect borders and to fight criminal networks, smuggling and exploiting the most vulnerable ones. even more so when these networks are state sponsored – an instrument like migratory flows – like done by erdogan or lukashenko. in this sense, this obligation is even more crucial when we speak about european borders, because then schengen and our four freedoms rely on that. no doubt it is a sensitive balance, and we witnessed just yesterday in plenary a government that does not live up to our expectations. but there are other member states working together smoothly with european support, answering hybrid attacks together, cooperating with the commission on alleged cases. and because it is a sensitive balance, we need to make a few things clear. let’s not expect from our officers, european or national, land or sea border, to first open up a legal review of complex questions when acting on our behalf. the principle of non—refoulement is, of course, to be respected, but neither does it mean that access to a procedure can be practically applied at every inch of the border, nor does it mean that everyone asking for protection is eligible for that. and see, and this is the key. it is on us finding the right balance politically, legally and enforceable under difficult circumstances. half-way to that is a pact screening border procedure, the crisis mechanism which prepares us better. the second part is the upcoming revision of the schengen border code. but the need for better coordination – measures to prevent manipulated crossings – instruments to trigger in critical situations. we are the ones that need to be in the driving seat of any orderly management, not dictators threatening the stability of the union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, people are being abused, brought to the european external border to destabilize europe by lukashenko with the help of who knows who. but even if these people are being abused, it must be clear that we cannot allow member states in europe to act in breach of international law and that people who come to a border and ask to be able to apply for asylum are denied access and that they are denied access to the european union by push-backs. this is a violation of international law, and we must make that clear. and the clear signal from the european parliament must be that we will not allow this and we will tell the member states that are doing this that it is illegal. we must see that some member states have institutionalised this. if you look at the figures - you mentioned croatia, commissioner - this is a situation which is now the norm in croatia. i think we have to be very careful to get a mechanism that allows for independent observation: okay, what's really happening at our external borders? that people can go there, regardless of time and place, to decide where i control... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, after two years of absence, i will be going back to the greek islands in a couple of weeks, and i’m a bit afraid to go because i’ve just promised myself two years ago that i would improve the situation. but fortress europe is still a reality. we build wires and walls and a few of our guards hunt and beat people up, take away their phones and throw them back over the borders. over the last year, 300 illegal explosions have been recorded in greece. two weeks ago, we learned how croatia is using shadow armies to push people back. and just today, as sophia has also said, lawyers are suing frontex – an eu agency – for its role in human rights violations. commissioner johansson do not waiver in your defence of asylum law. help europe to live up to its values of compassion, law and human rights and let us turn fortress europe again into a shelter. for that, let’s set up independent mechanisms to monitor our border guards, make eu funds for migration conditional on safeguarding human rights and trigger infringement procedures against all countries that don’t follow european laws. and please, by all means, never, never, ever legalise pushbacks.
the commission has already done so. reports of the push-backs have shown us graphic images of women and crying children. but the reality is different. young, strong migrants are crossing the polish border with naked force. what about us? we are engaged in a hypocritical debate which distracts from the central core of the problem: the utter failure of the eu to protect its external borders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mrs johansson, while you are protected here in parliament by fences and heavily armed police, you are denying european citizens that very same protection. the citizens of europe are suffering the consequences: murder, rape, drug trafficking, parallel societies and billions in costs. and we're debating the moral aspects of push-backs here. - you mean it? we should rather ask ourselves: why does the eu not finally secure its external borders? why are criminal traffickers called lifeguards, and why don't we put these people out of business? it's time to change that. let us protect europe!
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the assassination of president jovenel moïse was a great shock and added to the already very difficult situation. let’s put the crisis into perspective. nearly 5 million people in haiti are in need of humanitarian aid; in the capital of port-au-prince alone, close to a quarter of a million people are in urgent need of emergency assistance, and 19 000 people have been displaced in their own capital from gang violence that has significantly worsened in the last year. in addition to all this, haiti has been hit by the worst earthquake since 2010. international actors have shown a great amount of solidarity on the ground, doing what it takes to make sure that humanitarian aid reaches its target. but haiti has been struck by more than one crisis, and it becomes increasingly clear that aid alone is not enough. gangs are dominating the streets of port-au-prince, killing dozens by day, staging kidnappings and, not least, blocking aid and stealing critical humanitarian aid. and now there’s no clear leadership in the country, so we all ask: who can secure the situation for aid workers, as the police is not seen as somebody who helps? we, as the european union – and i go along with maria arena’s view, have to do the utmost possible in order to help the people of haiti, to show solidarity and to do everything possible from our side in order to help to meet the needs of the people.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the european promise made to the western balkans in 2003 never seemed more distant. it relied on the premise that the eu was a club of best democracy standards, where the rule of law is upheld and fundamental rights are protected, and that such a club has a place for them once they meet the criteria. neither we are that club anymore, nor does the western balkans have incentives to undergo painful reforms. on the contrary, the situation is gloomy, with almost no light at the end of the enlargement tunnel. what we witnessed before and during the last western balkans summit was a parade of hypocrisy, empty words, autocratic appeasement and, above all, pretence. the eu pretends that it wants to enlarge to the western balkans, while those countries pretend that they are conducting reforms to join the club. the current approach not only undermines our efforts to democratise these countries, but also endangers peace – as we have recently seen in the north of kosovo and in bosnia with a succession threat. it has to stop, and we need a fundamentally different balkan policy. albania and north macedonia deserve to start accession negotiations immediately as the eu cannot afford to lose its overall credibility due to the bulgarian veto. kosovo met all the criteria for visa liberalisation years ago, and the commission in return reiterates that. but young kosovans are still prevented from travelling freely like their peers from lisbon to the tbilisi. furthermore, we will prove our credibility by being fair and strict to the countries that have democratic backsliding, like in serbia. if we continue the appeasement approach towards autocratic and corrupted leaders such as aleksandar vučić and milo đukanović, we risk losing again a chance to democratise the region and bring it closer to the union. the membership promise must become credible again. that is our task. robust engagement and reinforcing ifor (international fellowship of reconciliation) in bosnia. opening accession talks with albania, north macedonia, visa liberalisation for kosovo and strict conditionality for serbia and montenegro is the way to become credible in the western balkans. the western balkans is not our neighbourhood. it is in our yard. this region means so much for european security, migration and border management, but also for culture and education as we share so much together. if the eu cannot play a pivotal role there, then our dream of becoming a geopolitical union is indeed just a dream.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. two weeks ago a spaniard spoke here with a similar slogan and, by the way, someone who is always in favour of catalan independence. i thought it was a good idea. of course, every people has a right to protect its traditions, its language, its culture and its livelihoods. and above all, it has a right to protection against the clearly racist project of mass migration to europe. we are also talking about the western balkans, because people not only have a right to protection against mass migration, but they also have a right to protection against crime, against corruption. and these are the main problems in the western balkans, apart from the fact that we have no political solution at all to the tensions that prevail there, as has just been demonstrated between serbia and kosovo. but above all, the western balkans is a group of countries that is riven by corruption. none of these countries are above cuba and saudi arabia on the transparency index. i don't know how that's possible. you have to do a lot to get below their corrupt status. but above all, the mafia is also extremely active in these countries. albania is now considered one of the centres of the european drug trade, and many people are already calling albania a narco-state, a state in which mafia money controls all state structures, including the press and the judiciary. these are the countries you are actually trying to bring into europe. this is also a breach of the promise we made after brexit. the commission said: yes, we understand, no further enlargement. now they've forgotten all about it. the western balkans are also completely uninteresting from an economic point of view. so it's a foolish project. and if i hear now, once again, 3.3 billion, mr mcallister, i can only say that 3.3 billion is wasted here too. and that's mostly 3.3 billion german taxpayers' money.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that we are even discussing the possibility of eu enlargement in the balkans is simply absurd. the balkans are and will remain a hotbed of corruption and the economic situation there is catastrophic. since 2007, the eu has invested some €8 billion in the region, also to boost the economy. studies have shown no progress at all. the eu has as always only burned money and failed miserably. but the eu would not be the eu if it did not repeat over and over again the famous quote of einstein: 'the definition of insanity is to keep doing the same thing and expecting different results.' that is why we are now investing another 30 billion over the next seven years. the taxpayer obviously has it. how many of those billions will end up in dark channels? but you, my dear colleagues, seem to be indifferent to that. it's only taxpayers' money. let 's not kid ourselves . the balkan countries would be net beneficiaries if the eu were to be absorbed for decades. who's gonna pay for this? mostly the german taxpayer. he'll realize he's the milk cow of the eu. he himself continues to impoverish. the german - as we know, he is very rich - now has one of the lowest median wealth in the eu, due to redistribution. the digital transformation the eu wants to promote in the balkans is almost amusing. germany is a digital developing country, which is lagging behind the rest of the world in this sector. internet and telephone connections are hardly available in many areas. the eu would be well advised to solve its own problems at home first, rather than adding to them. it was also decided to increase the vaccination rate in the balkans. that's outrageous and cheeky. now you want to sell your fascist methods, which ultimately lead to the exclusion of millions of healthy people, to other countries as a value model? the rules that have been introduced are simply a crime against our people, and we want to introduce them in the balkans too! this cannot go on and it must stop, and it must stop now.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have the impression that the experience of discharge, which has a budgetary focus, is being misused to achieve political objectives, and that is not the right way to handle the matter. if we are dealing with the frontex agency, we are first of all talking about 2019, and we are bringing current issues to the table. and the second is that ultimately, we have to empower frontex to do its job. they must be trained to really enforce their mandate there. if we do not want them to protect the borders, the external borders - yes, of course, then we have a problem. then we don't want to report it to frontex. we don't want to strengthen it. then we'll leave them standing in the rain and we'll throw more whips between their legs. and i don't think that's going to happen. we in the committee on budgetary control believe - and i thank the chairman, mrs hohlmeier, specifically - that in discharge procedures we always confine ourselves to a retrospective examination of budgetary matters, to budgetary control in the strict sense, and leave political matters out of it. it is not worth it if we bring political discussions into this. i'm not sure that's the right place to do it. but ultimately we have to stop attacking frontex all the time. and we need to get frontex back to its original role. i would also like to point out something which i consider to be a major problem, and which has nothing to do with frontex: we must also bring back the dublin rules. it is not possible that at the moment in germany, out of 4 000 requests for repatriation, only 128 people are being returned. the situation is even worse in greece, where only one in 7 000 applications is returned. how can that be? there are things wrong, and we would rather strike at the poles or the hungarians or others than deal with the actual arrangements for complying with the rules.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, it’s a great pleasure to talk to you on this topic. i am, as some of you know, rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs on european associations and non—profits, and it’s of special urgency and special importance for me to address this topic. why? – and i think that the chairing president also shares this view and shares this concern and perspective – because if we talk about european civil society, we have to talk about european associations but, yes, we also have to talk about european cross—border philanthropic organisations. they are participants and they are enablers of european cross—border civil societies. some of them are themselves civil society actors and ngos, there are many small and large foundations that dedicate their work to combating hate, supporting people in need or fighting climate change, as ngos being foundations themselves. in fact, this sector has been growing – and the preceding speakers mentioned this – it’s been especially growing in the post—covid world where we need sources of finance to support civil society after the crisis. yet a legal, fiscal and administrative environment for cross—border philanthropy is not there yet, at least not in the form that would enable us to support this sector. instead, cross—border philanthropy capital is used by some governments of member states to discriminate against ngos, which is unacceptable, and therefore we should talk about what needs to be done. i am grateful to the representative of the commission, but also to the colleagues from the parliament that they talked about specific things that then they and we can do. for example, we should emphasise and strengthen the non—discrimination principle based on the free flow of capital principle in our european union, as the european court of justice has strengthened and proposed. we need to lower or to mitigate financial burdens for cross—border finances. only by doing so will we be able to strengthen cooperation across borders in the european union. and, yes, we should also create special, supranational legal forms and regulatory regimes. it is of utmost importance not just to have a european company as a special status and regulatory regime, but also a regime which would help civil society, not just the economy, to be a real european and, yes, real european market player. so, dear colleagues, let’s start the work. i’m looking forward to continuing our conversation and cooperation.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i'm afraid i'll have to put some water in the wine. and i'd like to briefly explain why. i have great reservations for several reasons. the first is, we're creating a new bureaucratic monster if we're going to regulate philanthropy as well. just a quick story: a few weeks ago, a party colleague of mine was burned to death in the family car. his whole car is burnt to the ground. as is customary, he's a young family man with three children. he doesn't have car insurance. the perpetrators are unlikely to be caught. you know where it's coming from, but you're not gonna catch it. what can be done? we immediately started a fundraising campaign, and within a few days, we had raised over 10,000 euros. he can buy a new car, and that's good. imagine, would this have been possible with such rules, where all donations are regulated? if i had to fill out a five-page form, do you think i would have made a donation? i sat down that night and made a wire transfer, of course. what about the other things? when the ahr valley and many places here in central europe were flooded in july, what happened? within a few days, a billion, over a billion euros of donations came together, and they can be used for reconstruction. when the notre-dame cathedral burned down over a year and a half ago, donations of over 200 million from the big ones and 250 million from the others came in a short time. then there were, i think, over two billion euro in total commitments. would that have been possible if we had regulated all of this? it was said: cross-border all good. but what about the money laundering we want to fight? how's that supposed to work? it might protect the big donations. they get donation certificates, they can work tax-free, and then at the end? money is being laundered somewhere in all this work. the main reason i am opposed to this new proposal you have put forward is something quite different. it is a violation of our judeo-christian heritage. we all know that. jesus talks a lot about money. you know the story of the camel and the needle. it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of god. maybe that's why so many rich people give so much? i don't know, maybe. but giving is in the dna of christianity. god himself gives, and we celebrate that at christmas. god gives his son to us humans so that we can be redeemed. but this giving is not forced. it's not regulated, it's voluntary, and it's also happy. there is a beautiful verse in the letter that paul writes to the corinthians, where he says, "god loves a cheerful giver". so god loves a cheerful giver. do you really think if we regulate all this, that someone will still be willing to give? no, because in the end, we have to give something. i have no confidence in the commission on this. i'm sorry, mrs. mcguinness, but if you regulate something like this, it becomes an overgrown monster. and then, in the end, it's all gonna be on the track. and what today is the mortar, what holds us together, namely this christian, this giving, yes, this willingness to give, it's wonderful that it exists. it's broken, it's destroyed, and in the end, there's nothing left. giving also brings happiness. i am glad to recall, mr wieland, perhaps you will also recall: we used to have these poetry books, and we were allowed to write some for the girls at school. and there was a verse that stuck with me, which says, "if you want to be happy in life, contribute to the happiness of others, because the joy we give goes back into our own heart". giving also brings happiness. do we want to ruin it? do we want to destroy it? let's trust people to know what they're doing when they give, and let's bury our desire to regulate the things that we end up destroying when we regulate them.
madam president, lukashenko has reached another low of inhumanity: after beating, torturing and murdering his own people, lukashenko has now started using the desperate hope for a better life of people from outside, feeding them with false promises, to trap people on the belarus—polish border. it is naive to think that lukashenko is acting alone in his despicable campaign. without backing from the kremlin, this would be impossible. our challenge will be to act united, and we should not outsource these questions to our neighbours, like ukraine or moldova. it is our task in the european union to solve this. firstly, european instruments, in particular, also need to be present at the polish border. we all have to uphold european values, including the safety of migrants and their dignity. oversight and transparency at the external borders must work everywhere in the european union, also in poland. secondly, the fifth package of sanctions should be swift, tough and decisive. we need to target all industries assisting lukashenko’s regime. any member state that waters down the sanctions is complicit in the avoidable suffering of thousands of migrants. lastly, we need to engage actively in the countries of migrants’ origin. there is already a cooperative approach with iraq, but others have to follow.
mr president, one day after the anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, i hear today: walls, walls, walls, fences, barriers, border guards, police, hybrid threat and weapons. it feels like no one cares about the people, the individual stories on the ground anymore. compassion, colleagues, is not something that we should lose once we become politicians. let us make sure, first and foremost, that we care for the lives of those in need, and then we can care, secondly, about everything else. but first, we need to care about the lives of the people in need. once people are safe, we should stop being naive. the weakness that lukashenko is trying to exploit is not compassion. the weakness he is trying to exploit is that we do not have a european asylum system. none of this would happen if we had a good and decent procedure for people to go through, across europe, while we find ways to stop lukashenko from engaging in human trafficking. high representative, i have two questions. first, will you ensure that there is access for the unhcr to the european side of the border with belarus? second, do you believe that the right to seek asylum in europe is still intact for the people at the border?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. one thing must be clear: if the dam breaks down on the eastern border of poland, then there will no longer be 50 flights a week landing in minsk with migrants then 500 will arrive. either poland keeps its border and lets no one through no way or we're back in 2015 with hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants and over a million by the end of the year. and that is precisely why poland deserves all the support it can get, and that is why i cannot understand the calls for frontex to be set up here so that there can be no pushbacks. there must be pushbacks so that lukashenko does not win and so that europe remains safe. because the game is two-sided: if poland persists, then lukashenko will not win either, because then he has the problems in his own country and must take care of the repatriation in turn. he speculates that we in brussels are too weak to fight. and that's why it has to be said: we are strong, we are united and we will not let anyone pass. there is no right to illegal immigration.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i was a journalist myself and i had a slapp case against me by the fascist-compromiser max mosley. this procedure was successfully defended. it would have cost the publisher about two million. i mean, i know what i'm talking about. that is why i am very sympathetic to this initiative. but while the proposal is well-intentioned, it is unfortunately poorly made, because there are too many definitions of content and references to ideological rubber-stamps such as lgbti, climate change or hate speech. we know exactly what's going to happen. lawsuits against journalists defending excessive minority rights, climate hysteria or left-wing identity politics are supported. those who criticize this will not. they're trying to protect free speech. that's worth a lot of credit. but i'm afraid you'll find the opposite.
in writing. following the brutal murder of journalist daphne caruana galizia by the maltese mafia in 2017, it was clear that member states need to strengthen their measures to protect journalists. the protection of journalists should be of the utmost importance in europe. however, we regret that this report misuses these tragic deaths to shield cultural marxist 'activists' and ngos from legitimate prosecution. it is clear that the european parliament only wants to protect left-wing activists. our amendment, which would also protect journalists who report on criminal acts by migrants, mismanagement of covid policy and, in general, on the budgetary and social impact of non-european immigration, was rejected by a large majority, as was our proposal that politically controversial opinions of public interest do not constitute hate speech. the parliament's objective is clear: left-wing activists and journalists will be given a privileged legal status, while conservative or migration-critical journalists can continue to be prosecuted for defamation and possibly for spreading fake news. that's not why daphne galizia died. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. of course, the protection of journalists is of paramount importance. in a genuine democracy, journalists should be able to criticize and publish abuses and misjudgments by political leaders freely and with complete independence. freedom of expression and freedom of the press have grown historically and are the cornerstones of any democracy. the brutal murder of a journalist by the maltese mafia is being used for other purposes. according to this parliament, the rights and freedoms mentioned only apply to journalists defending climate hysteria, left-wing identity politics or mass immigration. journalists who report on criminal acts by migrants, mismanagement of covid policies, and the consequences of non-european immigration do not deserve protection. the european parliament considers that politically controversial opinions of public interest constitute hate speech. so there are journalists who are worthy of protection and journalists who are not. this has nothing to do with strengthening media freedom and pluralism. the opposite is being achieved.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu is not a state but an international organisation, which means that it cannot arbitrarily determine its tasks but must act only on the principle of limited individual power. tax legislation is not a contractual task of the community but remains the prerogative of the national states. article 115 of the eu treaties provides that the eu may only act if the member states so decide unanimously. this is why the eu is now adopting legislation on the exchange of tax data, which can be welcomed as a measure to allegedly protect the freedom of establishment under article 50 (1) of the treaties but which has nothing to do with taxation. that's how tax laws are decided here by majority vote. this circumvention of unanimity is an abuse of rights and a breach of contract. but the eu calls it the rule of law.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the european education area: a common, holistic approach, is the headline. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but what's interesting is that it's designed to improve critical thinking in the citizen. i think that we should use critical thinking in this house before we teach it to others. yesterday we in germany celebrated the 32nd anniversary of the fall of a state which wanted to control its citizens completely, educate and shape its citizens by constant indoctrination, which forced unconditional obedience from its citizens. a state whose very existence depended on its citizens being blindly loyal to their government and submitting to ideological bullshit. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not forced to take part in the elections. in a liberal democracy, the media would report in a neutral manner, free of ideological and manipulative coloring. in a liberal democracy, everyone could form his own opinion freely. in a liberal democracy, the political opposition would not be suppressed and would not be denied parliamentary participation. in a free state, everyone would be heard and there would be free speech. well, in a liberal democracy, that would be the case. but we're in the eu.
mr president, commissioner, i usually criticise the commission's statements and actions which seem to me to be outside the treaties on european union, but that is not the case here. this is one area where the european union can do something useful for the citizens of the member states. of course, this was not without propaganda and progressive ideology and it was not without demands for imposing equality quotas. and let's be clear about one thing: when it comes to science, especially exact science like the one we're talking about, a person can or knows or understands or can't or doesn't know or doesn't understand. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota system is not used to the detriment of the community's citizens. so, putting aside that ideology, i can only wish you success.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank you for this fruitful discussion. i have noted your remarks and i see that we are on the same page. so i am pleased to see both the interest and the active participation of all the political groups in our discussion today on the partnership in metrology. yes, this partnership builds on previous successful initiatives in the field of metrology and will allow us to consolidate europe's position in this field and create a european-level network for new areas of metrology. and through the creation of common european capacities, we can be more competitive and we can be ready to meet new global challenges, while contributing to the ecological and digital transformation. the partners are ready and we in the commission are doing everything possible to facilitate the swift launch of the partnership, once again this year, as soon as the decision is adopted. so again, thank you to everyone who worked on this issue. let us make this partnership in metrology a success to solve the fragmentation in europe and face global competition in this sector.
rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that despite the rather technical nature of this dossier, we all understand the importance of metrology, along with other horizon europe partnerships, for the success of our policy objectives. i think that close cooperation between the institutions is an important way forward. only then will we be able to identify and develop the technologies that will enable us to make an inclusive and financially sustainable transformation of our societies. i want to take this final moment to say a few words of thanks. first of all, to my colleagues who have spoken today in this debate and to all those who have supported my work. a very special word to the shadow rapporteurs, their teams and the advisers to the political groups, with whom i have had a very good collaboration. i would like to thank commissioner mariya gabriel. commissioner, you can continue to count on my full support in defending science and innovation in europe. i also thank the portuguese and slovenian presidencies, which have been able to prepare the work on this dossier in a very efficient way. last but not least, i thank mr bușoi, our chairman of the itre commission, for his constant support, and the entire itre commission secretariat for the efforts made to ensure the effectiveness of our work, even in these very difficult months of working in virtual and hybrid mode.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 11 november 2021.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by marion walsmann, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on an action plan on intellectual property to promote eu recovery and resilience (2021/2007 ((ini)) (a9-0284/2021). i would like to point out that you can use your voting machine to request spontaneous word messages and blue cards after you have inserted your voting card into the machine. you should therefore always carry your voting card. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you wish to register for a spontaneous debate, you can do so without waiting for the debate to end. i would also like to point out that the plenary sessions will continue to be held at the central podium. this does not apply to spontaneous speeches, blue cards and statements on the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium when your speech is due.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. without innovative solutions, we cannot meet our upcoming goals of the green deal, digitisation and industry 4.0. it is therefore necessary to strengthen and improve the enforcement of intellectual property rights such as patents, designs and trademarks. this report identifies existing problem situations and proposes solutions. for example, the efficient use of intellectual property rights can help corona-stricken businesses get back on their feet, can make them more competitive and resilient. but only 9% of smes in europe have used such rights so far. we therefore need to support smes to better protect their intellectual property through advice, funding and user-friendly application procedures. the single patent will bring enormous administrative relief and also cost savings. this makes it possible to obtain patent protection in 25 member states with one application. the single patent court will prevent costly parallel actions and at the same time increase legal certainty. for these reasons, all the member states involved should make greater efforts to ratify the unified patent court convention so that the unified patent package can finally enter into force. the enforcement of intellectual property rights also needs to be significantly improved. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. counterfeit products can not only have a significant impact on the health of citizens, for example in the case of fake masks. they are also often associated with organised crime. what's worse is that brand and product piracy is rarely detected. on the one hand, this requires increased cooperation between national enforcement authorities, euipo, europol, eurojust and olaf, in order to make detection and prosecution more efficient. on the other hand, member states should provide for effective and dissuasive sanctions for the production and distribution of counterfeits. and last but not least, technologies like artificial intelligence or blockchain can be used much more for detection. another important point is the protection of geographical indications. the product with its regional characteristics, its manufacture and its know-how are protected. there is already a european system of protection for agricultural products, which - you will forgive me if i am wrong - allows regional reference, for example, to thuringian roasted sausage. this protection system not only benefits consumers, who can recognise authentic products throughout europe, but also contributes to the preservation of cultural and regional heritage. we are calling for the existing system of protection for agricultural products to be made more precise and effective, with less administrative burden. we also believe that such a sui generis protection system should be created for non-agricultural products, so that regional smes producing handicrafts and similar products should also benefit from such protection throughout europe. finally, a very warm thank you to all the shadow reporters and your staff. we have worked together on what i think is an excellent text.
mr president, i was looking forward to welcoming us all back to parliament, but i can’t do that now because the access of meps to the eu parliament has been restricted. in western democracies this is an unprecedented attempt to discriminate against and harass elected representatives of the people. president sassoli, you are violating the european people’s rights by denying them their parliamentary representation. with all due respect, sir, you are an anti-democrat – a tyrant, no less – who does not seem to understand how democracy works. well, let me explain. it is not you who grants me access to the eu parliament. i was granted access to the eu parliament by the german people. if you are indeed the democrat you are so desperately trying to pass yourself off as, i strongly recommend you either respect that or otherwise step the heck down.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since 2015, at least five million so-called refugees have responded to angela merkel's invitation to come to germany and the eu. a danish study just published shows that this german policy of world rescue costs the citizens over 100 billion euros every year. now german politicians renew their invitation to the world, and immediately thousands are gathering in belarus to travel illegally through poland to germany. polish troops are refusing them this illegal border crossing rightly so: none of the migrants have a basis for asylum, because according to article 31 of the geneva refugee convention, the most that can be claimed is temporary shelter coming directly from an insecure third country. belarus is not such a state. poland is therefore acting in accordance with international law. the appeals of the german federal government, on the other hand, threaten the future of europe as a whole.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we're all still trapped by covid. we're fighting this pandemic. in my home country of saxony, and certainly not only there, the practice is to exclude all unvaccinated people from everyday life. it's called 2g. that's over 40% of the population with a vaccination rate of less than 60%. even if they prove through a pcr test that they are not infected and that they pose no risk. i do not think that is acceptable. we all need to realize that we're not getting rid of this new disease. we have to live with it. and we have to live with it in a way that doesn't give up our fundamental rights, freedoms and values. it's time to let go of the panic and deal with it casually and normally. not negligently, but based on our values. that is why i am asking for support so that wherever there is overreaction, moderation will prevail again.
mr president, i think it is really good that we are debating today the trade and technology council because this important body needs parliamentary oversight – a lot of colleagues have mentioned this already. as the whistleblower frances haugen told us this week in the european parliament, we cannot face the huge power of facebook, google and co. on our own, so cooperation with the us is crucial. i think the eu is really on the right track in fighting the harmful business models of big platforms that always choose profit over safety of effects. and of course, i think some things still need to be strengthened, for example, in the usa, when it comes to transparency of algorithms and tackling problems caused by targeted advertisement or strengthening the consumer angle – some of the things frances haugen also mentioned, and i hope this parliament will do so. but we are going in the right direction and this is good. and i want this positive tech agenda based on privacy, fundamental rights, consumer protections and values, to be the guiding principles when discussing and dialoguing with the us while keeping our regulatory autonomy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ttc the trade and technology council is a building block to a transatlantic alliance for climate neutrality. the us and the eu are looking in the same direction on climate change. we had a very good discussion with the industry committee in washington, d.c. last week and we saw that, but we need much more concrete targets on both sides for decarbonization. in energy justice, in just transition and in the inclusion of people affected by the transformation, we also need to think globally and work well together. and the ttc is supposed to be a forum for the supply of raw materials, for sustainable and resilient supply chains, for market creation, for secondary raw materials and for the exchange of know-how on green technology. semiconductors are important for digitisation and climate protection. we want to build european capacity to do this as partners and fair competition, where we have to take into account skills and markets. and for global data flows that are consistent with fundamental rights, we need trusted partners - including the united states. there's a lot to do. we're better together than apart.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am pleased to stand here as shadow rapporteur and to note that we as the european parliament have very clear ideas about how we want to strengthen political parties and foundations in europe, that this is important in order to really create a european public, that european political parties can also play a greater role, also in the member states, and that they can be visible - and not just on a specific occasion when another european election is coming up. that is why it is important for us to be able to participate in this. commissioner jourová said: 'it is also particularly important for us that european parties and foundations respect the values we have as the european union and carry them forward in their work. it is therefore impossible for european parties or foundations receiving european funds to organise events or campaign, for example, which undermine and undermine these values and do not respect them. we need mechanisms for this. it is also important for us to limit the amount of donations to reduce the influence and to ensure that we are truly independent. i can say on behalf of my political group that we do not accept any donations to ensure that. but the limit of eur 3 000 is an important step. i want to thank the two co-authors. mr wieland has mentioned it: we have not agreed on all points. but that's normal. but in the broad sense, to strengthen european political parties and foundations, to ensure that they can be more present - that is where we agree. and i also want to thank my shadow reporters for their good work and cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have heard it before: we talk about something for too long, but it is not actually done. that's our problem here: we've been talking about this since 2014, and no one will deny that we live in a digital age and we have completely different options now. the only exception is the world of social security coordination, where this has not yet been the case. we've been after that for years. we could already technically access data in real time. we wouldn't have to have a complicated procedure. it would also help to break through some of the gordian knots that we have at the moment in certain negotiations. but there is not enough courage to really go ahead and not just keep coming up with new technical things, new proposals, but to really act together. that's why i've been listening very closely to the 2023 that we can move forward and succeed. i like the message, but i lack the faith, i must say at this point. that's why we have to keep pushing here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, since 2014 there has been a call from the parliament for the introduction of an eu social security number, and in fact - i do not want to deny this - such a social security number would have various advantages. but it must also be noted that the european commission itself eventually buried the project as intrusive and expensive. and let us follow what mrs nicholsonová has suggested: let us first see what the reasons were for this! the european commission has been working on this for a long time, and there will probably be reasons for this. the main reason is probably the unresolved question of data security. it's not just the german bundestag that's been hacked, but also major social security institutions in italy and greece. and the fact that the social security data of all european citizens are now made freely available in other countries, so to speak, is perhaps not the wisest of conclusions. so we wait for the european commission's reports or considerations and then we should decide, but not before.
for the left. mr president, commissioner, year after year, we are in the same situation. the fault lies not only in the low vaccination coverage in some member states, but also in the reluctance of member states to cooperate more in the fight against the pandemic. in fact, the only two successful projects in almost two years are the joint procurement of vaccines and the introduction of covid passports. and to call them successful, we have to close both eyes. and i ask: what is our vision for the future? even if we, at this point, and i am only for voluntary vaccination, because i just believe that radicalization and coercion of people will only cause them to stop wanting to be vaccinated, the more these people will fight for their rights and freedoms, we will not stop this wave of pandemics. i ask you, commissioner, to speed up the selection procedures for treatment so that new medicines for the treatment of covid-19 can be brought to the european market as soon as possible and can be purchased in the required quantity. because that's the only thing that can help us save lives at this point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks, we have seen a significant increase in the number of new cases of coronavirus across europe. in croatia, the country i come from, you can get a covid certificate if you're over it, if you're vaccinated or you've been tested. in many member states, the record is being broken, and growth trends are not promising. we see the hospital system being ripped apart, and the fact is that the people who are dying, more than 80 percent of them, are people who are not vaccinated. we cannot allow our doctors, who work so hard, and all medical professionals, to be faced with the dilemma of choosing whose life to save, because every life is equally valuable. likewise, under the constitution of the country i come from, everyone has the right to health care. however, no one has the right to deprive another of health care or to endanger his life. so i ask you once again, all of you who are skeptical of vaccination and who doubt the greatest achievements of medicine, think about the people who are dying. in my country, over 60 people die every day.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we already knew a year and a half ago, when the whole of europe came to a standstill, that we were dealing with a very insidious virus. two years later, we are not in the same emergency situation as when the pandemic began, but the rapid increase in infections and hospitalizations in our countries in recent weeks is worrying and must be addressed effectively and with greater coordination also at european level. today, unlike two years ago, we have ample access to medical devices and, most importantly, we have vaccines. the commission's decision to centralise the purchase has enabled all member states to have the vaccine on the same terms. however, we are facing a two-speed europe, with countries that have reached immunization levels of about 90% of the adult population and others with much lower rates, and this is not good. numbers aside, the vaccine is the main tool to prevent further deaths and to prevent further closures that would undermine social and economic recovery. the regions that are most critical today are those that have been vaccinated the least, and until we have high vaccination rates across europe, we will not get out of this pandemic. today we also have a european tool like the covid pass, to facilitate the freedom of movement in safety between states. the commission should ensure a coordinated application of the validity of the covid pass in travel between member states, in particular as regards the duration of vaccination and the third dose. one thing we should all have learned: if we move together, keeping our eyes on the data and listening to the science, our action to make europe's citizens safer in healthcare will surely be more effective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in vienna over 50,000 people demonstrated over the weekend to demand an end to the state of emergency. this is the case throughout europe. we do not need a coordinated response to the rightful actions of the people in the streets. we need a coordinated response to get this country out of the emergency. we had an emergency situation when the disease was new. we know more about it now, and we have lower hospitalization rates. an emergency is by definition something that is limited in time. we can't stay in the er forever. and so this is not about more and better coordination of restrictive measures, but about a controlled, responsible but clear path back to christmas markets being open, people being able to travel and visit each other again.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank you again for this discussion. now, first of all, i would like to assure you that we are listening. we are listening to all the concerns. we’re listening to all the insights. we’re listening to your suggestions and we are listening to the perspectives. i am fully aware of the urgency and i am also fully aware of where we could be – as some of you have already said – if there is a lack of coordination, if we have fragmentation in the present state of this pandemic. now, let me address some crucial points. first of all, we need to look at what we have now, because i have heard some of the issues to do with questioning the vaccines, if they’re working, if they’re making a positive impact. vaccinations are saving thousands of lives. there’s no doubt that they’re effective against severe disease – including hospitalisations and deaths, and this protection remains very high. there is some evidence of decreasing protection in older individuals and those with other diseases but vaccines are achieving what they were supposed to do. they’re protecting people from getting severely ill and from losing their lives. and according to the ecdc (european centre for disease prevention and control), the current increase in covid-19 cases, even in countries that have successfully reached a high vaccination rate, is largely but not exclusively, driven by those who are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated. and this is both in the eu as well as globally. so the message needs to be clear: let’s get vaccinated. wearing masks and maintaining physical distances are important to protect each other. but vaccination is what is saving thousands of lives, and we need to continue to work towards this. vaccination is necessary, but indeed, as has been said, not enough. and i have heard a plea for us to do something to do with right therapeutics. so let me just share with you. we know that we need to work, and we have known this for several months, in parallel with therapeutics. people will continue to fall sick and need to be treated in hospitals and at home. and this is why, in parallel, we are ensuring the availability of covid-19 therapeutics. we have an ambitious strategy. i have presented this to you before from this plenary, with a portfolio now of 10 most promising candidates for therapeutics. and on 12 november, not long ago, we authorised two new therapeutics: ronapreve by roche and regeneron, and regkirona by celltrion. the european medicines agency is currently evaluating two medicines under rolling review – evusheld from astrazeneca and molnupiravir from merck, and authorisation applications were submitted for four medicines in addition to those. and last friday, the european medicines agency gave advice to member states that they can use and make molnupiravir or lagevrio – difficult words – available for emergency use. we are also supporting member states in having access to therapeutics. we have already concluded two joint procurement contracts, and negotiations are ongoing for other products. and we are organising, by the end of november, the next pan-european matchmaking event so that, once authorised, therapeutics are produced in sufficient quantity as soon as possible so that all european citizens can have access to them wherever they live within the european union. so, we have never taken our eye off the issue of therapeutics and this through the eu therapeutic strategy is producing results. now, i listened very carefully to what esther de lange said and what véronique trillet-lenoir said, and i fully agree with the urgency. and this is why the european commission is working with the utmost urgency to strengthen the coordination of free movement, including the length of validity and the role of boosters in the vaccination campaign. discussions are ongoing with member states within the health security committee and the icpr (integrated political crisis response), and at every council meeting – we have the next council meeting on 7 december. but i just wanted to tell you that this week we will be coming up with proposals, specific proposals on safer and free movement, including the certificate, and there will be, this week, a new risk assessment from the ecdc. so, we are determined to reverse the current wave. we’re working closely with member states, as we are with you. we are very aware of the urgency needed and we are also aware that we need to give clear, coherent messages to citizens. this is the only way. everybody has been under tremendous pressure for 22 months and we need to follow the science and come forward with clear and coherent messages so that they’re able to all work together. ultimately, this is about all of us working together in order to be able to come to the end of this pandemic. and finally – and i will never stop reiterating this – i count on you for a rapid political agreement on the proposals for the european health union because we need to be able to be ready for now and for the future. and we could only do this with a strong european health union for the benefit of the entire european union.
thank you very much to commissioner kyriakides. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – 22 months since it started, covid-19 is today again the leading cause of death in the eu. in the light of the rising number of cases, european countries are reintroducing restrictions. today, the call for further precautionary measures is fully justified. vaccines have not replaced the need for other precautions. even countries where the vaccination rate is very high, like in my country malta, will probably need a further tightening of the sanitary rules in the coming weeks. it will be possible to avoid new lockdowns but only if a combination of conditions is met, notably: faster vaccination, compulsory use of masks indoors and the widest possible application of telework. meanwhile, at eu level, coordination of national measures remains essential to ensure that free movement within the eu is maintained. this will be done by adjusting the validity of the eu digital certificate to preserve its efficiency. the european commission is rightly aiming to harmonise the validity of the covid-19 vaccination certificate to include booster shots. these and similar measures have proven effective in past months. their reinforcement will be essential in the near future. understandably, there is a widespread ‘pandemic fatigue’. still, it is not time yet to treat covid like another strain of flu.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the term 'commodity'. i would remind all honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the discussions of this part-session, nor will there be any acceptance of so-called blue-card questions. in addition, as in the recent sessions, remote assistance is provided by parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also remind you that all speeches must be made from the central platform. i would therefore ask all members to check the list of speakers and to come to the central podium as their time approaches.
the committee on budgets mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. a european strategy for critical raw materials we will discuss and vote on this at the end of this week. my group, the epp, has deliberately taken the initiative and brought the issue to parliament because we are firmly convinced that this is a key strategic issue for the european union, which requires greater cooperation between all the institutions - the commission, parliament, the council - but also between the member states and the financial and research institutions. because only in this way will we achieve our common goal, the green deal, which includes meeting the paris climate target and preserving our competitiveness and our jobs in europe. we are not talking about cocoa and coffee, which are hard to do without. we're talking about rare earths: lithium, borate, bauxite, tantalum and 25 other critical minerals that are essential for renewable energy technologies, for more energy efficiency, for electric mobility, for more digital applications and for better medical care. we are highly dependent on a few, or even only one, supplier country or company for these raw materials. this year, we have tightened our climate targets to 2030: climate neutrality is set for 2050 at the latest. with this in mind, all the studies and forecasts assume that we will need much more critical raw materials for the green and digital transformation here in europe in a very short time. so it's high time that we look at our supply chains and put them on a more stable footing. the commission has proposed ten measures which i welcome. but they are not enough, and that is why i propose to supplement them: the european raw materials alliance needs to be further strengthened, and its permanent magnet projects need to be implemented now, as well as supporting new initiatives in the field of storage and recycling. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i was happy to take up this matter. we need clear positive signals in particular for financing sustainable raw materials projects: in national recovery plans, taxonomy, for investments in the development of recycling and secondary raw materials markets, for projects in former mining regions, for materials research and for an ipcei, an important project of common european interest. we also need faster and more transparent authorisation procedures and the implementation and enforcement of existing european legislation rather than new ones. of course, we need to tap the full potential of the circular economy: from product design to waste collection, to strict control of our waste exports, to recycling rates, to reducing the overall material footprint. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. as did my colleagues on the trade committee, who supported the establishment of new strategic partnerships, the review of our trade agreements and the push for sustainable mining in third countries through the introduction of due diligence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we in the epp are saying yes. resources are where they are in the earth. we firmly believe that we can and must resolve conflicts of interest between nature conservation and economic activity through our european rules, because the permanent outsourcing of responsibility and the current constant blackmail and uncertainty about prices, scarcity and supply chains are simply no longer an option. our green deal must be built on solid foundations of industrial, environmental, strategic and ethical principles. the epp amendments make this report an important contribution to this. please agree with them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not europe needs raw materials for the transition to a climate-neutral economy. the use of critical raw materials in green technologies also has positive effects on the environment. lithium and cobalt in batteries, for example, are enabling electric mobility and thus contributing to the transport revolution. but we also know that mining for raw materials is a risk to local people, to biodiversity and to the climate. a blind call for more mining in europe is wrong. the european commission knows this, and my colleagues in the european parliament know it too. the quantities of critical raw materials needed for the green transformation in europe are often exaggerated and based on incorrect assumptions. green technologies are responsible for the increased demand for only six out of 30 critical raw materials, and the digitisation of the economy, defence and aerospace industries are also major customers. artificially high forecasts for critical resource production often lead to wrong conclusions. this is fatal to our industrial strategy, but also to the achievement of our climate, environmental and social objectives. and if we now promote raw materials in natura 2000 and other protected areas, the eu's environmental protection under the green deal is going to the absurd. we need sustainable practices that are socially acceptable. we need to move towards a circular economy and substitution and a functioning market for recycled raw materials. green innovation in industry, new production technologies, conservation of resources and resource efficiency - this is the right way to make the transition to a climate-neutral economy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. billionaire oil investor advises eu on green and social finance the eu commission's decision to commission a study on sustainable finance from the financial group blackrock has rightly been sharply criticised. how credible is a financial group that still invests 85 billion euros in coal? blackrock bought political influence at a low price. advisors like that are damaging our climate policy credibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the fact that the commission was able to overlook any conflict of interest in this decision is absolutely unacceptable. that is why, commissioner hahn, mrs o'reilly was right to slap you in the face. we therefore also call on you in our report to revise the financial regulation in such a way that potential conflicts of interest are defined and a stop sign is not given. we cannot allow the blackrock case to happen again.
madam president, orbán’s son-in-law has committed fraud against the eu budget at least 35 times, worth over eur 40 million. after all this, he can still apply for eu funds. he can continue to commit fraud on even more projects because the blacklisting that currently applies is a joke as long as it doesn’t apply to 90% of the eu budget. orbán’s father also gets millions from the eu budget through construction projects. we actually do not really know how much money he is getting because the final real beneficiaries are still unknown. those are just two examples that show corruption, fraud and the rule of law crisis in the european union have gotten out of control. we must be faster than the criminals. we need better rules, better oversight and much quicker closing of the loopholes. the eu must not be the foundation of criminal empires. so mr hahn, we expect a proposal that stops oligarchs from stealing our money.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. sport is not very often on the agenda here in the european parliament. i am therefore particularly pleased that we can discuss our joint report here today. the eu's sports sector accounts for 280 billion and 6 million jobs. but this economic importance and the many central roles it plays in society also obliges us to pay close attention to what happens in sport. and the obligation is in particular to exercise due diligence and to exercise serious controls over good governance and ethical standards in all associations and associations. this has not always been the case in the past, considering the doping cases, the systematic fraud, but also the abuse cases we see in the media every day. and what happens to the high, extremely high investment, especially in professional football, often by external third parties, by eastern european oligarchs, oil-rich states or other autocracies? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the community's economy. for this to change, the eu institutions must work together in a more structured way, and we here in the european parliament need binding control instruments to ensure that sport is not undermined by commercial interests. it is true: outdoor sports and physical activity are important for maintaining good health. unfortunately, 59% of eu citizens rarely or never move. that means there's a lot of work to be done. i think it's good that we've managed to declare sports funding from the corona rebuilding fund. i would like to conclude without going back to the case of the chinese tennis player, which shows once again that we must also protect the international elite athletes from their own federations. the unspeakable video statement by thomas bach, the president of the international olympic committee, has shown that he has not understood what is going on. it is not possible for the international sports federation, which is there to protect athletes, to side with autocracies, as it has already done in belarus. let us take a clear position on this. this can't go on.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr frankowski, you have been nicknamed kotek, the kitten, for your filigree football game. i don't think what you've delivered here today does justice to that, because your report amounts to an incredible politicization of sports. and that's exactly what sports shouldn't be. like you, i grew up under communism. sport was the only space that wasn't politicized. it was a refuge for spending one's free time without the constant instruction and subordination to any political dictates. and then when i read your report, you want to write in that you're advocating for lgbtq, that you're advocating for controlling sports coverage. they want to subordinate sport - it is possible throughout the text - to political objectives. but that's exactly what the sport doesn't deserve. sport should be apolitical because the essence of a free society and the essence of a free part of society is that they are not subject to politics. there must be some areas of life that are not politicized. and the sport is first and foremost. that is why it is good that sport is not part of the eu's competences, even if you want to make it part of it through the back door of the internal market and other issues. the eu should not only stay out of sport, but also stay out of sport. the sport can take care of itself. the associations, the training groups on the ground are smart enough. we certainly don't need a politicised sport where politicians decide where tournaments are held, but we need freedom, we need athletes, we need passion. and we need an area that is not controlled by the eu and its out-and-out politicians. thank you very much, and therefore, red card for the report. i wish we had more courage to not regulate things and to let people be free.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the covid pandemic has shown that we in the eu need to rethink our healthcare system. no commercial company would have provided the billions needed for vaccine trials in the summer of 2020. only the eu's almost unconditional acceptance of the costs has been able to accelerate the development process. the market, with its many favours, could not have done this on its own. but to date we do not know what research expenditure actually was, and there is an urgent need for more transparency. secondly, the problems of supplying medicines - some of my colleagues have already mentioned this. this was a big issue in the pandemic, but it's not a new issue for two years. it's been a long time since people have had access to their medicines because they can't get them. we therefore believe that in order to ensure that our citizens are supplied with medicines, we must make manufacturers more responsible. in the eu, anyone who gets a marketing authorisation must show that their supply chain is stable and that they have a plan b in case of failures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then when the wastewater flows into the river there untreated, and antibiotic resistance develops, and then it comes back to us through tourism, then it turns out that globalization also works in the negative direction. i therefore ask you, mrs kyriakides, to make an international effort to ensure that environmental regulations are included in the rules governing the manufacture of medicinal products, so that we can have a level playing field worldwide.
madam president, stephan harbarth, the president of the german constitutional court recently declared poland fell short of german rule of law standards. moreover, the polish judiciary was not independent. two comments – first, poland’s top court has questioned the supremacy of eu law over national constitutions, a position which is exactly that of germany’s top court, except the german judges wilfully ignore any eu treaty violation, and the german government tells them to. second, the federal government effectively controls the appointment of all top judges in germany, who are often signed up members of political parties. harbarth himself is a former deputy leader of merkel’s party and will now decide complaints involving laws he himself advocated. while the judge rapporteur of the recent pro climate rescue judgment is close to the greens and married to a green politician. perhaps, i conclude, poland should not match german standards.
madam president, in this plenary session of the european parliament we are voting on the outcome of the agreement between the council and the european parliament on the 2022 budget. i would like to highlight one contribution with a clear social democratic stamp: the increase of eur 211 million in the heading, initially set at eur 500 million, for the european union solidarity fund. i would like to share with this european parliament an absolute priority: the repair of the damage caused by the la palma volcano, which has been erupting for more than 60 days, because 'reason speaks for itself' - the volcano sums up all the assumptions of the solidarity fund, which was originally designed for earthquakes, fires, devastation and destruction of infrastructure. the volcano has done it all, and european money must go to repair damaged infrastructure, equipment, energy and water, and schools and medical centres destroyed by lava. the european union must therefore join the solidarity of the canary islands government and the spanish government and do so as soon as possible, by removing any obstacles or bureaucratic obstacles that might prevent aid from reaching us as soon as possible, because the victims of the la palma volcano who are looking at us and calling us must be given an effective and, above all, immediate response by the european union.
we're here to show our solidarity. as vice president, i have not had the opportunity to express my sympathy for the families who have suffered these tragedies. thank you for bringing that up.
madam president, unfortunately, this week there have been a number of other events which may shake the faith of european citizens in this union and which are regrettable because of the hypocrisy they display. for example, in the last week, troops backed by turkish dictator erdogan attacked armenian soldiers just outside the capital yerevan. some of them were wounded, some were captured, some were killed. this attack was never reported. there are no declarations, no calls for support, no sympathy, no people to shake off their shirts and protect human rights, like what happens every time someone steps on a spear somewhere. that's not what happened, and that's hypocrisy and double standards. the other thing that is extremely worrying is the continuing insistence of this hall that the bulgarian society be humiliated and accept an attempt to violate and destroy the human rights of the people in the republic of north macedonia who identify themselves as bulgarians. the neglect of their rights continues and it is a disgrace to all those who call themselves defenders of these rights, especially those colleagues on the left of the chamber.
madam president, two years ago, the world was informed that covid-19 had been newly discovered and was making people very sick in the city of wuhan in china. in the meantime, the entire world is still suffering under the pandemic, causing the deaths of over five million people. but how did this virus come into the world? the only thing we really know is that it originated in wuhan. the next question is, and there are indications for this, is whether it was caused by an accidental lab leak in the wuhan institute of virology, where we know they were conducting this type of research, including gain of function. colleagues, if we want to avoid a new pandemic, we need to evaluate. however, the european commission refuses to investigate the origins of covid-19, so it is up to the parliament to stand up. therefore, i call on all groups to support the ecr proposal to establish a special committee on the origins of covid-19 and the eu funding of the wuhan institute of virology.
that concludes the agenda item.
the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
good morning, colleagues, the sitting is open. the next item is the joint debate on– the report by peter jahr, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing rules on support for strategic plans to be drawn up by member states under the common agricultural policy (cap strategic plans) and financed by the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf) and by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and repealing regulation (eu) no 1305/2013 of the european parliament and of the council and regulation (eu) no 1307/2013 of the european parliament and of the council (com(2018)0392 - c8-0248/2018 - 2018/0216(cod)) (a8-0200/2019),– the report by ulrike müller, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and repealing regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 (com(2018)0393 - c8-0247/2018 - 2018/0217(cod)) a8-0199/2019, and – the report by eric andrieu, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulations (eu) no 1308/2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, (eu) no 1151/2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs, (eu) no 251/2014 on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and the protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products, (eu) no 228/2013 laying down specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the union and (eu) no 229/2013 laying down specific measures for agriculture in favour of the smaller aegean islands (com(2018)0394 - c8-0246/2018 - 2018/0218(cod)) a8- 0198/2019. i would like to announce to all colleagues that, as per previous sessions, there will not be a catch-the-eye procedure and blue cards will not be accepted, and also, as we have had in previous discussions, we will have colleagues who will connect from parliament offices in the member states. also we will remind all colleagues that the speeches will be given from the central rostrum and, therefore, once you are approached please get to the point so that we can proceed smoothly.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today is an important and good day for european agricultural policy, and especially for our farmers. two and a half years of consultation, countless shadow meetings, voting rounds, some on the highway in the car, sometimes i was sweating, sometimes i was freezing -- not just because of the content, but because of the climatic conditions. a trilogy would almost have failed and covid 19. there would have been plenty of reasons not to deliver or not to deliver on time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that means we can deliver. because this is not just a political-intellectual dispute. it is ultimately about our farmers. it's about security of supply. yes, it is also about 45 billion euros a year in aid for our european agriculture. and that's why it was important to deliver on time. and, first of all, a word of consolation for my colleagues who are not entirely satisfied with the reform: everyone who has written a book or had to write a book knows this. some of them have their master's thesis, some of them have their doctoral thesis. everyone feels like they could have done a little better in the end. yes, that's right. i feel the same way. but we know how it is. we also know the saying of the eternal doctoral students: whoever is always at the end of the opinion, he wants to do something better, never gets there. and that is why it is important: we want to pass an agricultural reform, and we did not want a lifelong debate on agriculture. that is why it was important to find compromises. our task was to put a coherent reform on the table in time. we did it. i simply recommend that you also give your consent. the reform is innovative. it's more environmentally friendly. it contains a redistribution component from large to small farmers. she sees the farmer as a businessman. we have incorporated the social dimension and the member states have been given more room to manoeuvre. and i say again: the innovation in this reform is the so-called delivery model. this means that the member states must use indicators to calculate whether or how the european agricultural policy is developing. this creates series of numbers, it creates de facto statistical evidence. we have outcome, impact and impact indicators, including 33 outcome indicators that are sanctioned. that means we do not need justification from the european court of auditors or self-appointed agricultural experts. we can prove the success or failure of the european agricultural policy. and those who criticize this may be afraid that they will have to say goodbye to their own prejudices. perhaps something quite different from what he has claimed will happen - at least we have the possibility of proving it. and this is, for me, the biggest reform step since the macsharry reform in 1992: we are moving to a delivery model. we shall, if you will, switch to an evidence-based agricultural policy. it is also more environmentally friendly: 25% of direct payments are used for environmental measures. this is unique, we've never had this before. of course, it can be more, it can always be more, but we should first deal with this 25%, coupled, of course, with the degrees of freedom for the member states. the member states will have more degrees of freedom. one size fits all, we said, doesn't work. and the colleagues who criticize it? they may be consumed by mistrust of the member states. i don't have that. i think that, together with the delivery model, our member states are able to do things properly. what may remain, what still occupies me, where i myself am dissatisfied: keyword de-bureaucratisation. i believe that in the final phase, compromises are negotiated and solutions must be found, but the process of de-bureaucratisation has not been fully explored. here again i have hope for the member states. i say to the member states: you have to implement a delivery model. you have to deliver. you develop the national strategic plans. you decide what measures apply to farmers. and there's no ban on doing it the easy way. and i would like the member states to compete in the process of de-bureaucratisation. so, to sum up once again: in the interests of european farmers, in the interests of security of supply, in the interests of the environment, please vote in favour of the reform! it's good, it's innovative, and, as i said, we have a lot of work to do. we'll develop this further in the next reform and make everything better. and thank you again for your cooperation to our colleagues, to the staff. and lastly, because i see christophe hansen in front of me, we have never before discussed agricultural reform in such close cooperation with the environment committee. it has never happened before, and it can also give courage for the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are gathered here today to decide on the legal framework for the cap for the period 2023 to 2027. the present proposal, which i have negotiated for parliament, is the result of many months of intensive negotiations with the council. and this proposal is more than just a step in the right direction towards a more efficient, transparent and effective agricultural policy in europe. my group and i therefore vote in favour of this proposal. briefly: today's decision concerns 10 million farms in the union, including 8.5 million family farms, 27 national administrations in the member states and 450 million citizens who need planning and legal certainty, who want high quality food, liveable rural areas and climate and environmentally compatible production and marketing. before i get into the details, i want to ask the obvious question: why now? why has it taken three and a half years from the commission's proposal to today's vote? the commission proposal was submitted eight months late. this delay made it impossible to vote during the last term. it's not responsible. i therefore urge you, commissioner, to submit the next cap proposal in good time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we, as the directly elected representatives of the people, know what works and what doesn't on the ground. the covid-19 pandemic in particular is showing us all every day the economic and social performance of our farms, ensuring that we are provided with the best and safest food we have ever had. this security of supply is not the result of chance but of the tireless efforts of our farmers and all those working in the food sector. the rapidly rising energy prices and the political developments in the field of farm-to-fork and biodiversity strategy, together with the current market situation, are leading to increased cost pressures that are putting production security in question and putting farms in fear of survival. at the same time, agriculture has an obligation to support the transition to a climate-neutral europe by 2050. i would point out that today more than half of the carbon dioxide emissions from the agri-food sector are already due to factors unrelated to agricultural activity. that is why my approach is to combine security of supply and climate protection in the new cap. the national strategic plans allow more flexibility for member states and thus the end of the 'one size fits all'. the active involvement of agriculture and the rural population in the ongoing preparation of the plans is essential. the central point of the cap proposal is the introduction of the new delivery model. the introduction of a results-oriented reporting and control system is the real innovation of this shortened programming period. this is the only way to make eco-schemes a promising instrument for national strategic plans. it is also a step away from a simple game of numbers to a real evaluation of the results of the individual farmer. this will be a major boost to the legitimacy of public funding for agriculture. this new system also requires a fundamental simplification of the reporting system. there is no longer a need to send detailed control reports to brussels a functioning governance system is also sufficient. the single audit is being fully implemented. no double checks are required. since the new performance model will place the main responsibility for control on the member states, we have provided stronger protection against misuse of eu funds. we have created clear structures with clear responsibilities. as regards the much-debated issue of transparency, we have ensured that information on the actual recipients of cap funds is made available to the public. i am proud to be able to present today this fundamental reorientation with more responsibility for the member states, more benefits for farmers and more transparency. to all critics of this proposal, inside and outside this house, to the associations, ngos and associations: it must be clear to all of you that those who vote against this proposal are in favour of maintaining the status quo. i therefore say quite clearly: i am voting in favour of this proposal and i shall be working from now on to implement and critically monitor this new, performance-oriented and transparent agricultural policy. i would also like to express my sincere thanks to my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, and to you, commissioner, and to the council for the trusting cooperation. it wasn't always easy, but we worked out a compromise. i would ask all the members of this house to give their consent to this proposal.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, the text i have the honour of presenting to you on the revision of the common organization of the market, the so-called "ocm", that is to say on the economic part of the cap, contains real progress, both for the sector and for farmers and consumers. for the first time in over 30 years, the cap reform is ending up with more regulation of markets than deregulation. we felt it was essential that farmers should be able to obtain a fairer and more stable income to support them in the ecological transition. we have succeeded in renewing the european crisis management tools. agricultural market observatories will be set up within the european commission, covering all production where necessary, in order to increase transparency on prices and margins of the different actors and to monitor as closely as possible the level of food stocks in order to activate safeguard measures. we have obtained an extension of the authorization to plant vines until 2045, and we know how essential this is for a sector that needs stability to move towards greater sustainability. the energy value of wines will now have to be specified on the label and on the bottles, and the list of ingredients will be made more widely known to consumers. the de-alcoholisation of wines will be finally recognised. it will now be possible for all products with a protected geographical indication to regulate the quantities placed on the market in such a way as to avoid crises and to ensure a fair distribution of value within the supply chains. the following are some of the measures contained in the report. we wanted, together with all the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i would like to thank here, to reform the com, which is turning its back on 30 years of deregulation. a reform that restores farmers to their dignity. a reform of the com that contributes to the reconstruction of european food sovereignty. yes, the report before you is a step in the right direction and deserves a wide vote. but the problem with this reform is not the coc report. the problem with this reform, ladies and gentlemen, is the report on the strategic plan. the cap we are voting on today is a strict continuation of the previous ones. the bulk of the budget will continue to be spent in the form of per hectare aid, paid without regard to production methods and without regard to agricultural prices and incomes. it is economic nonsense, it is budgetary nonsense, it is environmental nonsense and it is social nonsense. look at what is happening today with the 50% rise in cereal prices over the last six months and, therefore, with the increase in bread prices all over europe. with this new cap, we will continue to pay subsidies to farmers whose incomes are going to explode. at the same time, we will continue to greenwash with eco-schemes, which will then appear as a gadget measure par excellence. so yes, we have achieved social conditionality and henceforth farmers who do not respect the labour law in relation to their employees will lose part of their subsidies. this is a very important social step forward and i would like to commend the skill and selflessness of our colleague, mrs maria noichl, who fought so hard to achieve this result. but this progress is not enough in the face of a cap on aid which will remain optional and a redistributive payment which will be paid in the same way to all farmers, small family farms and giant farms. and at a time when multilateralism is in deep crisis, we have a duty to revive it. but instead we continue to defend the wto rules that prohibit public stockpiling policies, while at the same time china and india have nothing to do, continue to build strategic stocks and speculate. we're not serious. we should instead work together to reform agricultural rules that are totally unsuited to the challenges of the 21st century. finally, the draft which is before us entails a de facto renationalisation of one of the main community policies. it is a historical contradiction. on the contrary, we should really come together to tackle the major challenges that lie ahead of us in an international environment that is more unstable than ever. it all depends on the content of each member state's strategic plans and on the validation of these strategic plans by the commission. but when we are about to vote on the reform of the cap, which today represents more than a third of the budget of the european union, we still do not know the content of these strategic plans. they shall be submitted to the commission by 31 december 2021. we do not know whether these will be aligned with the green deal or whether they will be in line with the 'farm to fork' strategy we voted for last month. and to be honest, the first versions we see circulating show that we are far from it. ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a real denial of democracy vis-à-vis the european parliament, because once the text has been voted, we will no longer have any concrete means of influencing the negotiations between the commission and the member states. in fact, it is a blank cheque that we are being asked to vote on today. and i can't help it. we have to respond to the challenges of climate, food security and food sovereignty. it is up to us to re-establish the link between agriculture, food, health, biodiversity, climate and territories to provide solutions to these challenges. we owe it to our fellow citizens, we owe it to the 11 million european farmers who feed us.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the common agricultural policy and our farmers are our best guarantee of affordable and healthy food. if food production was at the heart of the cap 50 years ago, today the environment, biodiversity and climate protection are at the top of its agenda. and that's the way it should be. farmers are and want to be part of the solution. but in order for them to play this role and for us not to become dependent on imports which are not produced to the same standards, we must also ensure the survival of our farmers. the reform we are adopting today, in my view, creates this difficult balance. i respect farmers who are willing to work for the same eu money, to do more and at the same time to suffer loss of income in order to achieve our common objectives. i have no sympathy for those who are still trying to torpedo this reform. irresponsible, because a no also means no to more climate and environmental protection. that is why we must vote in favour. take responsibility for our environment and our farmers!
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i am very pleased to be here today to present the result of eight months of intense interinstitutional negotiations and of an even longer period of regular and constructive exchanges with parliament and the council since the commission published its proposal for the new common agricultural policy (cap) back in june 2018. it is a bit more than a year since i joined you for the debate on the parliament’s negotiating mandate. as i did then, i would like to start by thanking the chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr lins, and, for the three regulations, the rapporteurs, mr jahr, ms müller, and mr andrieu, for their hard work, sparing no effort in bringing about the political compromise at the end of june this year and the final legal text that you will be voting on today. on behalf of the commission, i fully support the political compromise reached. it is a good and balanced outcome that will allow the common agricultural policy to play its role in ensuring the transition towards more sustainable agriculture. the new common agricultural policy is an important step forward. we have the opportunity to grant our citizens a strong common agricultural policy that will contribute to all three dimensions of sustainability – economic, social and environmental. it will foster a sustainable and competitive agricultural sector that can support the livelihoods of farmers and provide healthy and sustainable food for society, while delivering significantly more in terms of environment and climate, in line with the european green deal ambitions. i am very satisfied with the large support that the political compromise on the cap reform had in your committee on agriculture and rural development, and i would like to invite you to confirm such support today. it is time to harvest the result of so many months of negotiation and concentrate on the implementation of the new cap, allowing us to address effectively the many challenges lying ahead for the european agricultural sector. let me now say a few words on each of the three strategic plan regulations. we can be satisfied with the so—called green architecture of the strategic plan regulation, the pillar of environmental sustainability. alignment with the green deal is shown in the ‘no backsliding’ principle, and the final compromise on conditionality and eco—schemes, including the ring—fencing of 25% of direct payments, national envelopes for eco—schemes, are strong outcomes. the final deal sends a clear political signal of the union’s commitment to respond more decisively to the scale and urgency of the environmental and climate challenges the union is facing. the recent cop confirmed the need for a change. the basic act will provide the right tools, but turning the legal framework into concrete results on the ground will require member states to rise up to the higher social expectations in this domain. they will have to show the right level of ambition when designing eco—schemes and in the overall set—up of environmental and climate interventions, addressing effectively the key challenges they will have identified in their strategic plans. i will come back to that. the new common agricultural policy improves the fairness, effectiveness and efficiency of the distribution of direct payments, ensuring that income support goes to those who need it most and who deliver more for cap objectives. nobody can be left behind. a lot remains to be done in practice, but the agreement reached provides useful tools to deliver on this priority. a key element is the requirement for member states to describe, in their strategic plan intervention, how the need for redistribution will be addressed, depending on the member states’ specific contexts. the complementary redistributive income support will be key, but so will other interventions or tools like, for example, the payment of small farmers, if duly justified. with regard to the social dimension of the future common agricultural policy, i am happy that the final political compromise includes, for the first time, the concept of social conditionality in the cap, linking the distribution of direct payments to the respect of certain labour laws. i would like to thank the european parliament for having put forward this idea in its negotiating mandate, and all parties for their determination and flexibility in finding a workable formula to make sure that the future cap ensures the respect of workers’ rights, without adding an unnecessary administrative burden, and safeguarding the integrity of the national social and labour system. finally, i am especially satisfied with the outcome achieved in the governance of the future cap and the shift towards a more performance—oriented policy and strategic planning. the approval of the cap strategic plans, with a common set of results, indicators and targets against which the policy can be monitored and evaluated, constitutes an unprecedented opportunity to respond to the demands of our citizens to see the results of our policy. with regard to the horizontal regulations, i am glad that, after intense discussion in the three institutions, the final political agreement strengthens the key elements of the original commission proposal, notably with regard to the new delivery model. building from the existing robust assurance model in the new common agricultural policy, member states will deliver on performance and will have to ensure a strong governance system in place. they will be responsible for checking eligibility at final beneficiary level, while the commission will focus on ensuring that the member states’ systems work properly. i think we have managed to strike the right balance between flexibility for member states and assurance on cap expenditure. in terms of enhanced transparency in the cap, i welcome the new element on a group of undertakings, which was introduced by the european parliament. i very much welcome as well the compromise on the data mining tool, arachne. arachne is a very useful tool, which could supplement member states’ checks. the commission is therefore happy to accept the obligation to make the tool available to all member states free of charge, and to make it 100% suitable for cap expenditure. as to its voluntary or mandatory use, the commission is ready to present a report by 2025 to the co—legislators, together with appropriate proposals if necessary. in addition, i would like to recall that the commission has tabled a unilateral statement on arachne to be added to the statements accompanying the horizontal regulation. a copy will be transmitted to your plenary services. i’m also very pleased with the agreement on the scope, financing and management of the new agricultural reserve. a flexible reserve of eur 450 million per year was agreed and the council and parliament could decide during the annual eu budget procedure to set up a higher level, if needed, within the limits of european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf) availabilities. last, but not least, i am satisfied with the general political agreement reached on the common market organisation amending regulation. with the new compromise, we will continue to have a policy that is market—oriented and well aligned with the green deal farm—to—fork objectives. eu farms will continue to operate according to the market signals and will be equipped to make the most of the opportunities offered by the eu and global markets. there are a number of significant changes agreed in the process, also thanks to the amendments proposed by the european parliament. here i have in mind some of the very important provisions that strengthen even further the position of farmers in the food chain by encouraging producer cooperation and providing competition—related flexibilities. you will recall that this is one of the actions foreseen under the farm—to—fork strategy, and we are delivering on it. the wine sector will also benefit from a substantial number of new elements that will ensure the long—term sustainable development of the sector. we all recall that we have also extensively discussed the issue of standards applying to imports. eventually, a political compromise was reached that sets out our commonly—agreed level of ambition and objectives that we want to pursue further. trade should not weaken the green deal ambitions. the commission is pleased with the approach agreed on respect for this in our international commitments. we are now working on the report that we promised for the next year. please allow me to finish my intervention with a few remarks on what lies ahead of us. as you know, the commission is sparing no effort in its structured dialogue with member states, supporting them in drawing up and finalising ambitious fit—for—purpose cap strategy plans, based on their solid needs assessment and including the appropriate combination of interventions addressing the identified needs of farmers and social expectations. the quality of member states’ cap strategic plans is a condition sine qua non for the new cap to deliver and lead the way to a more sustainable eu agricultural sector. the commission will assess the plans, in particular as regards their strategies’ correspondence with specific objectives and targets. this assessment will be communicated to the member states in an observation letter so that the plans can be further improved. i know the european parliament’s interest in the process of assessing and approving the national strategy plans. the commission will do its utmost to ensure a high level of transparency so that parliament and the public in general stay well informed, throughout the process, about the overall level of ambition of the cap plans. i have indicated the commission’s intention to publish the observation letters addressed to the member states on their cap plans. also, as agreed during the negotiation process, the commission will report to the co—legislators, by the end of 2023, on the content of the member state plans. to conclude, let me mention that the cap alone cannot address all the challenges we face in terms of economic, environmental and social sustainability. at all levels of governance – eu, national and regional – we need to do our best to create synergies between policies and finance if we want to succeed. i am confident that the legislative package on which you are being asked to vote today can significantly contribute to that goal.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the fact that we are finalising today the negotiations on the common agricultural policy, which have probably been going on for too long, is undoubtedly very good news for european farmers. they wanted us to give them clear guidelines for the future of european agriculture. there is no doubt that the new cap can in many ways send positive signals to european farmers about the stability of their income and production, as well as responding to the challenges of european climate policy. however, i would also like to express my concern, commissioner, about the future of agricultural production, which, according to independent studies, could fall by as much as 25% as a result of restrictions going too far, which would threaten our food security and contribute to a significant increase in production costs. i also regret that the full equalization of direct payments has still not been achieved. the fact that the level of subsidies does not take account of real production costs or current conditions for farming is, in my view, a violation of the competition rules and i therefore expect the commission to continue to act on this matter.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regional development committee. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, it would be better to commend and thank everyone for the hard work and the good document we have produced. but i regret to say that the new cap does not solve social inequalities, does not meet environmental objectives and does not contribute to reducing bureaucracy. for at least five years, we will divide farmers into equal and unequal groups by allocating direct payments based on historical data rather than on current reality, distorting competition and breaking promises made before 2013. we have failed to agree on a list of effective echo schemes, leaving decisions to each country to make individually we have created chaos that will prevent climate commitments from being met. i think that if we do not have 27 then we will have at least 15 caps in europe. not to mention the development of small farmers and organic farms, which we've been planning to do without allocating practically all the resources needed for that. this is indeed a high degree of flexibility, which allows member states to make various decisions that will prevent successful implementation. i urge you not to support this cap project.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, i want to commend this morning the collective, cross-party and exemplary work we have done in the european parliament to save the posei budget for the outermost regions, which was unjustly threatened. and it is the honour of our european parliament to have restored it. i would also like to acknowledge the personal commitment of commissioner elisa ferreira, with whom we worked to ensure that the right solutions were found, and for which i would like to thank her here. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, our colleague éric andrieu, for his persistence in the negotiations on this aspect, which will enable us, on réunion island, to force the whole of the large distribution sector to play the game of local production and fair competition.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission has already made a number of proposals. no one thinks of women directly in the cap, but women play a very important role. this role is often not recognized, let alone honored. women are making a very, very important contribution. i would even go so far as to say that women in rural areas are the backbone of our family farms. it is our farmers who have been fighting for many years to increase the value of our agricultural products. we must give greater recognition to their work in the field of nutrition education, the education of our children, village life, and in fact in continuing training. it is therefore important that we continue to strengthen and extend support for farmers. but we should also focus on the young female workforce. we need them for our farms, we need them for food security and for the future of our rural areas. women will play a crucial role in helping to shape our agricultural future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. fortunately, the new cap bill is from 2018, and so it's from the pre-green deal era and the pre-crude off-the-court-narratives narratives that totally wrongly accuse our farmers of being the alleged polluters and would like to educate them to sink co2 with food production as a side business, so to speak. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's good! the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. but it is equally difficult to agree with that. the green agricultural policy has at least increased the ideological and bureaucratic stranglehold on farmers, and the income situation will become even more difficult because the cost of the so-called eco-schemes in a specialised and efficient agriculture is substantial. in germany, for example, only 6% of arable land complies with the regulations on the diversity of crop species. so costly adjustments are needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. even the much-vaunted new subsidiarity of the member states is a fraud, while german taxpayers' money, including that of farmers, is being distributed more cheerfully throughout the eu. it is interesting to see what happens when the european commission dares not to approve one of the national cap strategy plans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. in many important areas of the eu, we have already set clear targets: the end of the combustion engine by 2035, the end of harmful coal subsidies by 2025. who would have believed that five years ago? why can't we do that in agriculture? why are we not working towards a concrete end to pesticides and their subsidies? why not set a date when we want to get out of synthetic fertilizers, which are harmful? we will now invest 50 billion euros a year for another seven years in supporting large industrial groups, which are not going in this direction at all, but only own land. the money would be needed to help our farmers make the transition to truly sustainable food production. i mean, we could use the money. today we shall have to vote against this proposal for missed opportunities. but we greens will not give up. we will continue to work for a common agricultural policy which serves the common good in a measurable way and protects our livelihoods.
mr president, commissioner, our farmers deserve recognition, support and the fair and efficient distribution of the budget they so badly need. this is why the reform of the common agricultural policy is also important for farmers and consumers alike. its objectives are competitiveness, food security, environmental protection and rural development. i believe that the strongest aspect of what was agreed in the trialogue agreement is precisely the focus on environmental protection and the strengthening of the powers of the member states. it will therefore depend on the priorities of the member states' governments and how they use this flexibility. in contrast to the current situation, a quarter of the funds in the first pillar are now linked to so-called ecosystems, which are intended to motivate farmers to reduce the use of pesticides and antimicrobials and to improve animal welfare. but today we're voting on a reform that lacks a crucial measure, and that is the backstop of direct payments. support for small and mediumsized farmers is one of the fundamental objectives of european agriculture and, in my view, this objective is not sufficiently achieved. the european commission, like the european parliament, has proposed mandatory pools and redistributions for smes as a fundamental tool to prevent concentration of ownership and to protect against the misuse of european subsidies. unfortunately, as a result of the trialogue agreement, the backlog and the 10% redistributive payment remain only as an option. this is a major problem that will exacerbate the differences in the competitiveness of farmers and between member states. i regret that we have missed this opportunity for a real reform of the common agricultural policy. i think we should not have given in to the pressure of the european council.
ladies and gentlemen, after almost a year of intense negotiations, we are voting today to finally approve the cap package, so that it can come into effect on january 1, 2023. and to ensure a smooth transition, we also adopted the transition rules regulation. the new cap, in addition to being more environmentally friendly, must guarantee the economic and social sustainability of farmers and rural areas. farmers are at the heart of the cap reform and must be fairly compensated for their work. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and his team for having succeeded in keeping farmers' interests at the heart of the new policy. the introduction of the compulsory redistributive payment for small and family farmers and additional support for young farmers are necessary investments for the future of the sector. i am very pleased that we were able to defend the continuation of transitional national aid with a new reference year, as well as tied support: two extremely important instruments that partially compensate for the lower levels of support in countries like bulgaria and have an important social impact in rural areas.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the biggest reform of eu agricultural policy in 30 years has arrived. the negotiations were turbulent, intense and conflictual. the challenges facing our farmers remain diverse and large. for the first time, direct payments are being redistributed on a compulsory basis to smaller farms. to some colleagues: i find it contemptible that you are constantly degrading the best agriculture in the world. we need young, committed and motivated successors to the court. it is my heartfelt desire to support them permanently. without them, there is no future for this systemically important and multifaceted profession. without them, there is no food from home. and for me, agriculture is clearly part of the solution to more climate and environmental protection. a quarter of direct payments will be used exclusively for the new eco-schemes from 2023 to 2027 and they are at the heart of the cap. i therefore consider excessive regulation in the context of the green deal to be counterproductive and unsuitable, because we must also and always keep in mind the social and economic sustainability of the farms. cooperation instead of confrontation and sound impact assessments instead of constantly renewing demands, balanced compromises, a constant budget - that is what we have achieved, and that is why i am convinced that i am voting yes today.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, 900 political prisoners, 40 000 arrested protesters, 280 liquidated ngos, hundreds of shut-down media, journalists thrown into jails, lawyers stripped of licences. this is the reality of people of belarus. only because we do not hear these stories any more does not mean that the terror in belarus has stopped. on the contrary, the terror is finding new ways to oppress and crush everyone with the most inhuman weight. but bear in mind, the violence unleashed by lukashenko is not a sign of strength. it is a desperate revenge before the regime’s collapse. revenge on us, on our unwavering support for the people of belarus, an attempt of lukashenko and putin to destabilise and divide the eu. this is why belavia carried out 600 extra flights, and abused the hopes of the most vulnerable people from the middle east. belarusian officials charged huge amounts before trapping the desperate refugees between police batons and barbed wire. this is the definition of human trafficking, a crime against humanity. those few here, and in some capitals, who are still naive enough to legitimise lukashenko with a phone call, still naive enough to think that putin is not the mastermind, they need to realise that the only language dictators understand is the language of strict sanctions and punishment. lukashenko belongs at the tribunal. zhyvie belarus!
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while you and the media are repeating the same fake news about poor refugees and empty phrases of solidarity and values, the videos from the polish border show the bitter reality: extremely violent economic migrants are attacking poland's border to enter the social state of germany. no one should be more grateful to the poles than we germans. but the poles have a problem called the eu. because border security is the exact opposite of what the eu is trying to achieve with its new migration pact. that is why you are offering poland even the slightest assistance in registering illegal immigrants - a slap in the face to every pole who is defending our freedom at the very border. belarus has repeatedly rejected polish aid. the eu is now offering a total of 700 million euros. do you realize that half a million average taxpayers in germany have to work for a month to pay for it? this is political failure. this is pure political impotence. it is clear that belarus has caused the crisis and belarus must solve it. finally, think and act in the interests of the european citizens, the majority of whom are against mass migration!
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, the use of migration as a lever is not new - not worldwide and not in europe. we all remember the turkish interpretation of last year. but it has a new quality: the ruthlessness of the dictator, the cynicism of the instrumentalist, the perfidious combination of artificial migration routes with tangible economic benefits for the authoritarian regime. so far, all attempts to blackmail the european union have failed. this is not a self-service; it has taken a lot of work on our part. i would like to thank in particular mr margaritis schinas, who has been travelling a lot in recent weeks and has worked very hard and tirelessly, particularly with the countries of origin and the airlines. what is important now is that europe's unity must be maintained in the area of sanctions, border protection, the involvement of international aid organisations in belarus and the consistent return of refugees. the message is clear: europe cannot be blackmailed. at the same time, we must be better equipped to face such challenges: with the asylum and migration package, with the revision of the schengen borders code, with geopolitical guidelines and with full backing for our agencies. we are the ones who have the final say on europe's external borders, not dictators who threaten the stability of the union.
commissioner, naturally i too condemn police violence against roma and against all citizens, of course, and in this respect i want to tell you about such police arbitrariness in my country bulgaria. on november 14 and 21, bulgaria held simultaneous elections for parliament and president. during the election campaign, we witnessed unprecedented police brutality by the minister of internal affairs, boyko rashkov. under the pretext of a controlled vote, armed gendarmerie raided the homes of roma and other citizens who were summoned and threatened at police stations to give explanations about which party they would vote for. as a result of this police indiscretion, coordinated by minister raskov, the elections in bulgaria had a record low turnout. commissioner, this police tyranny over bulgarian citizens is a disgrace for a member state of the european union, and i urge you to pay attention to minister rasshkov's actions so that measures are taken to prevent this from happening again.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, i thank all of you who have intervened in this debate. at the european commission we are determined to fully implement the measures that were included in the anti-racism action plan and the roma strategic framework. two of the measures in the anti-racism action plan are precisely, the stepping up of efforts to prevent discriminatory attitudes among law enforcement authorities and to boost the credibility of law enforcement work against hate crimes and to present any legislation required to address shortcomings in the racial equality directive. we are working on these two measures as we speak and expect member states to do their part through the development and implementation of national anti-racism action plans. the roma strategic framework is built with member states in mind. it is because of this that the framework came with a proposal for council conclusions. the commission notes with satisfaction that, in march of this year, the council recommendation on roma equality, inclusion and participation was adopted unanimously. member states can and must play a pivotal role in ensuring that all these three concepts of equality, inclusion and participation are fully implemented at the national, regional and local level. a recent visit in one of the member states by the committee on employment and social affairs (empl committee) and one of my cabinet members has shown that we are very far from this reality and that roma continue to suffer from great social segregation and material deprivation. as i am planning my country missions to member states for next year, i can indicate that roma people and their rights will be high on my agenda.
the chairman of the council. the president, the commissioner, the members of the european parliament. i thank you for today's debate, which has highlighted an important issue for the member states and for the two other institutions of the european union. in the introduction i condemned the police violence that occurred in the specific case you referred to by the individual speakers, but i should also add that we must not forget the tens of thousands of police officers throughout the european union who are working day in and day out to protect all citizens, regardless of their ethnicity. the excessive use of force by the police in the european union is not a structural problem of the member states' law enforcement systems and the appropriate authorities should be trusted to investigate each individual abuse of power. as i have already stressed in the introduction, we need to empower the roma community and ensure that it enjoys legal security and the same fundamental rights as everyone else, and all three institutions need to work together to do this. empowerment also goes hand in hand with responsible citizenship, and roma bear a significant share of the responsibility here. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's commitment to review and make changes to policy on hate crime against roma and racist police brutality by the end of 2022. we have reached a new level of integration and inclusion in europe, with the eu roma framework strategy 2011 and the roma integration package presented by the commission last autumn, and with the anti-discrimination directives, we have made significant progress in this area. as a result of the development of institutional structures in the member states and the transparency of eu funding, a breakthrough has also been achieved in the area of placing roma leaders in decision-making positions. however, we still have a long way to go to be able to create a welcoming and inclusive social morals at eu level. however, this can only be achieved if we pay greater attention to the priority of equality and equal opportunities, since problematic behaviour patterns and actions in the justice system and in the functioning of violent organisations are not causes but rather consequences of discrimination and thus of hate crimes as a whole. our task is to create an education system that is preventive and raises awareness of the law, to promote the integration of roma into law enforcement and to promote targeted programmes to promote inclusion. finally, i would like to thank the commission for making roma integration a priority in its programme for next year, and for the european parliament's full support in this regard.
vice—president of the commission. – madam president, migration is about people, people who are coming to the eu in the hope of reaching, building and living a better life. it is our duty, as a europe that protects and as a europe of opportunities, to do so under only one premise: solidarity and responsibility. this is the guiding approach to the pact on migration and asylum we presented one year ago, of which legal migration is a key pillar. let us not forget that most migrants arrive in the eu legally and contribute to our societies in a crucial way. this has been made more than evident during the pandemic, as many of our health and care professionals helping in the frontline have been migrants. europe is an ageing continent. in many economic sectors and in many regions, there are structural labour shortages that cannot be filled by the domestic labour force or through intra—eu mobility. migrants also play a crucial role in the agriculture and food sectors, ensuring their smooth running and largely contributing to our economies. as the oecd confirms, legal migrants are not a financial burden. quite the contrary. they contribute more in taxes than governments spend on their social protection, health and education. this analysis is well documented, and the oecd, i take it, knows more than mr fest. so let us not lie to ourselves. migration is a fact of life. it is not a question of whether or not there will be migration. there always has been and always will be. what we need is a better, more organised, way of managing migration. migrants are not ‘them’ and we are not against them. most of us here in the room are all in some way migrants, having left our countries or regions to be here in brussels, strasbourg or luxembourg, advancing european interests and values – and some attempting to destroy them. migrants can play an essential role in the recovery, as i said, in sectors such as healthcare and agriculture, but also transport or construction. in addition, we want to attract new talents and new skills, a specialised labour force to make the european union a true innovation hub in support of our green and digital ambitions. why should we accept that, at the moment, highly educated migrants are more likely to choose north america or oceania rather than europe? legal migration is a shared competence. it is also a national competence as member states decide on the number of workers to be admitted and the conditions. however, at eu level, we have harmonised rules on the admission and the rights of third—country nationals. let us not forget that migrants are not only workers, but also students, researchers and family members. i’m particularly grateful to the european parliament for your role in managing to reach an agreement on our blue card directive earlier this year. with this agreement, we sent a strong signal about our collective ability to agree on key migration files, and we need more signals like this. the commission shares this house’s objective, as reflected in ms al—sahlani’s report, to offer third—country nationals improved avenues for legal migration, ensure appropriate working conditions and put an end to exploitation. that is why we have already announced that next year we will propose a skills and talent package. allow me to thank you once more for your input on this file. the package will propose the necessary adjustments of our legal framework to make migration a success for all – migrants, citizens, eu member states, employers – and also send a strong signal to receiving countries. the package will have different components: a revision of the long—term residents directive, a revision of the single permit directive, and we are also planning an accompanying political communication with more forward—looking suggestions on our vision in the medium and long term. specifically, we will present concrete options to develop an eu talent pool. this will be an eu—wide platform for international recruitment that could help the european union match the skills available from migrant workers with the real needs of eu employers. on top of this, as we set out in the pact, the commission has already launched the talent partnerships. this is an initiative to strengthen relations with third countries by increasing and enhancing legal pathways. let me conclude with a very clear final message. legal migration is a two—way street. we in the european union will allow for legal avenues, we will admit migrant workers, we will work to improve their conditions and we will struggle to give them fair access to our systems, but they should also accept our rules, our values and our model of society. this is the two—way street that we need. those who come to europe need to accept and respect the role of women in the family, in society and in the workplace. they should accept the need for peaceful co—existence, for religious freedom and tolerance and for full respect of the ethical rules that govern living in europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. digitalisation, sustainable economies, solid growth: the coming years will be challenging for the european union for our economy . on the other hand, one in five people in the eu is already over 65 and the proportion of the working population is expected to continue to decline. europe needs an answer to this. the report we are presenting today is another piece of the puzzle. because done right, well-managed legal migration can be a key component of our economy, if and when it responds to labour market needs and skills shortages. three things are essential to us: the member state decides on the type and extent of immigration. the labour market sets the criteria and the needs. this may include other criteria and other qualifications besides highly qualified professionals and entrepreneurs. we are not only short of doctors and engineers in some areas, but also of workers in agriculture, construction and health care. the key is to better match supply and demand. the talent pool, the talent partnerships, which have been mentioned today, can play a very important role here. and thirdly, legal migration can and must be an integral part of cooperation with third countries, both in a positive and, where appropriate, in a negative sense. the talent pool and the talent partnerships on the one hand, the full instrument of the visa code on the other. if we want to preserve our prosperity and our innovation, we must not lose sight of the global competition, and that is exactly what is happening at the moment. the united states, canada and australia are a long way ahead of us in attracting the brightest and the most talented. with this report today, we are making the european union fitter for the future. i want to thank the reporter and the shadow reporters for their great work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear mr. schinas, i admire you very much. no one understands this like you do, telling so many lies in such a short time. i'm gonna fix some of these. they said migration was the norm. 0.8% of the world's population are migrants, 99.2% are not. normal is the sedentary. they said, "migration is good for the host country", and they're referring to some oecd studies. the commissioner responsible for the un has just made it clear, in an ironic way: today, migration is almost always detrimental to the host country. they also said that most of the migrants are legal. here are some figures from germany: 1.3 per cent of asylum applications last year were valid. this means that 98.7% of the entries were illegal. so much for your claim that most immigrants are legal. but this concept here is not just a big lie, or is not just based on lies, it's also anti-social. youth unemployment: in spain at the moment 30.6%, in italy 29.8%, in sweden 25.1%, then comes ireland with 24.5%. and now you want to bring in more uneducated people? but even if you do get them, especially if you get the educated people, the donor countries bleed to death. this too is deeply antisocial and you should stop pursuing a policy of lies and lack of solidarity.
mr president, mr vice-president, europe needs legal migration now and even more so in the future. we need immigrant workers, not just for demographic reasons, but also economic and geopolitical reasons. they are also a cultural asset to our societies. to attract these workers, ladies and gentlemen, we must simplify and further harmonize the european legal framework governing the conditions of entry and residence, by removing obstacles and red tape. i therefore call on the commission, following the example of the blue card, to come forward as soon as possible with new legislative proposals for low and medium-skilled workers, as well as for the selfemployed and entrepreneurs. the commission and the member states must also make existing rules visible and public, because it is no use adopting measures if no one knows about them. finally, member states must achieve the effective integration of immigrants into our societies with ambition and the appropriate budgetary means.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this very insightful and fruitful debate. i might be repeating myself, but this is the most important takeaway of today’s session: legal migration is key for our recovery and for our economic and social systems. everybody can see this, with the exception of mr kofod, of mr weimers, of mr fest and of mr rivière, who came here to unleash a tsunami of hate and then left. they didn’t even have the courage to listen to all the blatant lies they spelled out, and it’s even more preposterous that they are trying to mingle the legitimate debate we’re having on legal migration and the conditions for legal migration with the external borders and the situation in belarus. i will not accept any lessons from these people. i was in evros. i was in lithuania in september. i was in baghdad, in lebanon, in dubai, in ankara. i will be in uzbekistan tomorrow fighting for the external border. and i will not tolerate this discours de haine, this speech of hatred unleashed on a noble objective that the rapporteur and the majority of this house is trying to develop, which is to find a meaningful, simple, rational european system for illegal migration. i’m extremely grateful for the parliament’s ambition that is demonstrated through this report. we share this goal of facilitating a framework of reducing bureaucracy and promoting equal treatment. i repeat that we will spell out concrete proposals in our upcoming skills and talent package. we are currently holding intensive consultations with key stakeholders and also member states. and let me assure you that the main orientations of today’s debate and your special requests will be part of our thinking and drafting. that’s exactly why we waited for you before coming out with our own proposals. one thing is clear, and we see it very well established today, we need as the european union to do much better in the global race for attracting talents. people from other countries can help us be more competitive, more successful and more cohesive, and we can help them to build a new life and put their full potential in use. under no circumstances will this be the result or the outcome of a ‘diktat’ from brussels, as some of the speakers seem to understand, namely mr didier. we are not creating a new top-down obligation to member states for legal migration, but we will set up a framework, a framework that would allow us to match the skills of third-country workers and the needs of the eu labour market, all skill levels, and this would be a game-changer for europe. and if these doubters do not trust the commission in affirming our intentions, let them discuss with market operators, with employers, with the forces of the vivid economy, of the living economy, and i am sure that they will get the same message. thank you for your attention and your engagement, and congratulations to the rapporteur.
in writing. the sea serpent of immigration as a sesame in the face of the demographic crisis and economic stagnation is therefore again on the agenda of this plenary session. let us not forget that parliament is once again flouting the aspirations of millions of citizens, many of whom feel that immigration is excessive in their country - this is particularly the case in france. it is now clear that the immigration mantra is based on erroneous assumptions. first, how could immigration stimulate growth and employment, when we know that non-european foreigners are more inactive than french nationals? how could it provide the talents we would lack, when the immigrants who arrive in france are essentially unskilled? the expected economic benefits are purely theoretical. they are offset, moreover, by the disastrous social and cultural impact of mass immigration - an impact that the french are already feeling painfully. the impact on their wages is also felt, since immigration inevitably puts downward pressure. the european union cannot go against the will of the people forever and, on the question of migration, it is particularly at odds with it.
in writing. we are discussing legal migration and law. that title alone is revealing. if migration to the eu were legal, we would not need to debate whether it is legal. what you're really saying is, how can you make illegal immigration legal? how can you cheat and deceive? actually, this is a scandal. actually, people should be outraged and the press should be calling for resignations. but people have gotten used to you breaking the law. they're tired and exhausted. that was your intention and your game. i am reminded of your predecessor and his slip-up: "we decide something, then put it in the room and wait for some time. if there is no outcry, because most people don't understand what we have decided, we will continue until there is no turning back. that's where we are right now. they waited. there was no big outcry because most people didn't understand what you decided and now you want to decide the rules and laws so that there will be no turning back. they want to turn wrong into right. but not with the afd and certainly not with me!
president budget. mr president, the budget agreement reached for 2022 cannot be seen in isolation from the strengthening provided by nextgenerationeu. in addition to the 169.5 billion in commitments from the regular budget, there are 143 billion in grants/donations from the recovery plan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the budget for next year is therefore entirely geared to the pursuit of a strong economic recovery. we are not losing sight of reality. the covid-19 pandemic is still not under control and the eu will also need to continue to invest resources. parliament has consistently called for the eu's research efforts in the field of health to be stepped up during the negotiations. at our request, an additional eur 75 million has been provided. there is also eu support for healthcare inside and outside the member states, including vaccination. the concept of health also needs to be defined more broadly. we also look at the health of our companies and our society. the recovery plan is intended to provide a boost to the necessary reforms in the member states. structural and lasting reforms are essential to sustainably strengthen the potential for economic growth. the eu budget can also contribute to this through expenditure, especially in the field of research and development. they are the key to the modernisation of our economies. they're an investment in our common future. these are expenditure which can best be done largely at eu level because of the obvious benefits of scale. the commission has also made provision for much-needed increases to enable the eu to respond to some of the particular challenges that lie ahead. but i would also like to make a specific plea for greater solidarity when it comes to the strengthening of our external borders. it is the countries on our external borders that make the greatest sacrifices to ensure that we are protected in the union as a whole. so let us also help them by our actions to do what is necessary. i am therefore also pleased that the 2022 budget provides for an increase in the border management and visa instrument, namely an allocation of eur 25 million to combat the migration crisis on the borders with belarus, a dictatorial regime which is abusing this migration crisis in a shameful way. as far as i'm concerned, that's just the beginning. it is legally permissible to use these eu funds for the construction and maintenance of a barrier on our external borders. it seems to me therefore appropriate to make this work in the interests of all.
rapporteur. – mr president, for the third year in a row now, i was locked away on a rainy november weekend with my colleagues and with the national diplomats to battle over the annual budget, while surviving on very bad sandwiches and bad coffee. for the third year in a row, i have left these negotiations with a curious realisation. some eu capitals fundamentally reduce these negotiations to how much they have to pay and seem very often to disregard what they actually get for it, their return on investment. in light of this, it may be worth going back to why we actually have a european union budget. we have it because, some time ago, presidents and prime ministers made a confession, collectively, rationally and out of political self-interest. they made the confession that, in the past, conflicting national interests have led us to radicalisation and, ultimately, war. they made the confession that every nation, however grand and historically powerful, is too small to tackle the issues of our time alone. i would say they made the confession that all our individual nations lost part of their sovereignty exactly because, alone, they cannot safeguard or represent their citizens’ rights when it comes to climate change, healthcare, rising energy prices, leadership and research, global trade, national security and so many other fields which we see represented in our budget. this is why we have a common european budget, and this is why we have a common european institution that helps us thrive and regain some of the sovereignty that our individual nation states have lost. but let’s get back to the content of next year’s budget. from parliament’s side, the final outcome, as karlo ressler has said, is a success. we have barely ever seen such a focused budget underlining our priorities, be it in the fight against climate change, in our solidarity via vaccination campaigns and in supporting our research excellence, just to name a couple of examples. so big congratulations to karlo and all his colleagues and shadow rapporteurs for the great work. on my side of the table, when it comes to strengthening the institutions of the european union, i believe we have also achieved quite a lot. first of all, this is true for the european court of justice. justice is always on the side of the weak and the persecuted. strengthening the court with additional staff and funds therefore means safeguarding the weakest in our societies against those abusing positions of power, and that is always worth it. second, we were able to reinforce the court of auditors to scrutinise the correct spending of the billions flowing by the european recovery instrument. a common responsibility requires hard checks and balances, and the court is crucial in this regard. third, i’m also very happy that we were able to reinforce the capacities of parliament, of this house. after years of increased workload, we have finally managed to strengthen our core legislative capacities, which will improve the quality of legislation for all european citizens. let me close by thanking the council presidency for their fair negotiations and the commissioner for very creative solutions, karlo for the great collaboration, johan for the calm advice, and my shadows for the continuous support throughout the negotiations, but also to my team – caroline, zita and johannes – for their hard work over the last year.
president—in—office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner hahn, it is my pleasure to attend today’s european parliament debate on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2022. i would like to express the council’s satisfaction that we were able to reach an agreement in the conciliation committee in the last minute of 15 november, the last day of the conciliation period, after long and intense discussion. the positive outcome of the negotiation shows that our three institutions can work efficiently and in a spirit of good cooperation. together, we negotiated a budget for 2022 which responds to today’s concerns and tomorrow’s needs of our citizens. the european parliament and the council have worked hard to find a solution that will equip the union for the challenges of the second year of the multiannual financial framework. the deal we reached reflects our common priorities: economic recovery in the aftermath of the covid—19 pandemic; the fight against climate change; and the green and digital transition. it also leaves enough resources under the expenditure ceilings of the 2021—2027 multiannual financial framework to allow the eu to react to unforeseeable needs and events. in our official meetings in the course of the year, as well as during our informal contacts, i appreciated very much the positive atmosphere that prevailed in our talks. both sides of the table were ready to engage constructively to reach an agreement to reframe the discussion around our shared interest and come up with a solution. i am glad to inform you that after the successful outcome of the conciliation committee on 15 november, the joint text was formally approved by the council earlier today by unanimity. the council expects the european parliament to also approve the joint text tomorrow. the general budget for the financial year 2022 will then be adopted within the deadlines foreseen by the treaty. coming to the end of my intervention, i would like to thank the chairman of the european parliament’s committee on budgets, johan van overtveldt, and the rapporteurs, karlo ressler and damian boeselager, for their good cooperation over the last weeks and months. your hard work and enthusiasm can be highly commended. i would also like to extend my special thanks to you, johannes, for your contribution to facilitating our negotiation.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i should in particular like to thank the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, as well as the chair of the committee on budgets johan van overtveldt. minister, please also convey my thanks to irena drmaž, the minister-delegate for the eu budget, for her valuable contributions. of course, i also want to team up with all of those who welcome the agreement on the 2022 budget reached by the conciliation committee indeed just seconds before midnight, but this is not unusual, so this is our joint achievement. i am pleased that we can send the reassuring message to the citizens of europe that the european union’s budget will allow the union indeed to mobilise significant funds for a continued eu response to the coronavirus pandemic and its consequences. it was already explained by johan van overtveldt that it is not only the core mff, but also nextgenerationeu, where the size is even bigger than the core mff at least for next year. so this enables us to kick-start a sustainable recovery and to protect and create jobs. it will trigger further investments into a greener, more digital, more resilient europe, while protecting indeed the most vulnerable in its neighbourhood and around the world. the initial positions were quite far apart when we started the negotiations. therefore, it’s not surprising that it was not easy to reconcile them but i appreciate that all parties acted responsibly and made the necessary concessions in order to have finally indeed a solid agreement on time. therefore, i would like to thank the european parliament, especially the committee on budgets and all the specialised committees, for the intensive work on the commission’s proposal for the draft budget 2022, and on behalf of the commission in particular, i would like to thank the chair, johan van overtveldt, and both rapporteurs, karlo ressler and damian boeselager, for their cooperation and willingness to keep the general interests of the european union and its citizens as the ultimate objective. but i would also like to include in this your teams, but also the other colleagues of the committee, because i could witness that some discussions took some time to arrive finally at a good result. and in this vein, i also would like to thank again the slovenian presidency, in particular irena drmaž for her constructive approach during these negotiations. please convey again my thanks to her. these negotiations were not always in a very perfect environment on the council side, if i may say it in that respect, but finally, we could get an agreement. and again, all this has shown that the institutions are finally able to strike a compromise which is clearly, so to say, the best of european culture to arrive finally at an agreement, and it is always for the benefit of the union and its citizens. finally, yet importantly, let me also use this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the commission’s directorate-general for budgets for the continuous work on the file during the last months. the work on the annual budget, for instance for 2023, has actually already started so this is not something which starts somewhere in summer, but on the staff side it starts actually towards the end of the year before the year of the new budget. this is why i really would like to thank them. may i also say that contrary to what some may believe, it was also thanks to the commission’s honest-broker position that we have this really good compromise, and i am grateful to hear that this is now also recognised by you. a few details on the agreement - not everything which is in my briefing in order not to waste too much time, but i think it’s again important to highlight that the overall level of commitment appropriations in 2022 is set at eur 169.5 billion and this is an increase of 1.6% compared to 2021. the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2022 budget is set at eur 170.6 billion. this is an increase of 1.5% compared to 2021, and it’s for the second time in a row that we have budgetised more payment appropriations than commitment appropriations, which again is a signal that the whole recovery is picking up and we receive and we expect more payment appropriations in the days and months to come. maybe a few comments, because also following the previous point on the agenda, under heading 4, additional amounts were agreed for the asylum migration and integration fund. eur 20 million will finance particularly resettlement of afghan refugees, and also the integrated border management fund was increased by eur 25 million to finance the measures at the border with belarus. heading 6 was of course the most sensitive and difficult one, given all the new emergencies and continued needs in the partner countries. it’s particularly important that a significant increase, eur 190 million, was agreed for the ndici global europe, mainly to fight the coronavirus pandemic globally, but also to support the eastern and southern neighbourhood in central asia. i fully agree with johan that we have to see the health dimension, and i think karlo also mentioned it, in a broader context in order really to extinguish this pandemic. and therefore also humanitarian aid has been increased substantially by eur 211 million. this will also enable the union to show more solidarity with the member states suffering from natural disasters in 2021, as this increase of humanitarian aid will free resources under the solidarity and the emergency aid reserve. finally, there was a package and there is a package of 56 pilot projects and preparatory actions of the european parliament for a total amount of almost eur 90 million in commitment appropriations. i think they are very interesting, valuable projects, and i’m keen to see how they are implemented and what are the effects. finally, i am convinced that this overall budget enables us to deliver on our citizens’ expectations, indeed to support again the recovery from the pandemic, but again, it’s not only to support the recovery, but to make europe more resilient, more competitive, more ready to weather future potential crises, but also to become more competitive on a global scale. i think with this we have prepared the ground, and i think we can be proud together about the achievements.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the european union must be more than a money-distribution machine. that is why it is our task here in parliament to fight for european added value, and our committee chairman has said a lot about this, and we have succeeded. i would like to thank all those who have fought for this: eu4health, horizon in particular, resceu and erasmus+ were mentioned. and the flip side of that coin is control, because it's not just the value that matters, it's the use. we have succeeded in strengthening the european court of auditors, for example, and the european public prosecutor in heading 7. this is the other side of the coin, which is very, very important. but that goes for all institutions, including us. we too have a special task here, and we can say this with confidence: this must also be reflected in the budget. the other institutions also need a strong parliament, and they obviously want it and challenge us to do so. we shall be able to fulfil this wish as a confident parliament in the next negotiations next year.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, tell me what you spend your money on and i will tell you who you are. we all know that government spending reveals what politics stand for, and this is true at eu level as well. in times of the challenging covid crisis, we have to fight against climate change and for biodiversity. therefore our green priorities for the eu 2022 budget are climate protection, biodiversity, and research and development. many of our priority programmes received top—ups against a council who wanted to cut many programmes in this area. the final level of commitment appropriations negotiated for the 2022 budget is set at close to eur 170 billion. this means that, for 2022, we as the european parliament were able to achieve close to eur 480 million more than proposed by the commission, and for our green number-one priority, the climate and biodiversity programme life, we achieved an eur 47.5 million top—up. for the research programme horizon europe, we secured an increase of eur 100 million to boost innovation and to facilitate green transition. we have good results as well on covax and our targeted programmes like erasmus+, eu4health, creative europe, daphne and the foreign policy programme ndici. as parliamentarians, we can be proud of our compromises. nevertheless, it’s clear that we have to fight even more ambitiously for the climate and the environment in the 2023 eu budget. the money we spend in the eu shows very clearly how seriously we take the green deal and the paris climate goals.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on multilateral negotiations in the run-up to the 12th wto ministerial conference from 30 november to 3 december 2021 in geneva (2021/2769 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in any of the debates of this session. as in previous sessions, there will also be contacts from parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also like to point out that the plenary sessions will continue to be held at the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium when your speech is due.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the following criteria: to achieve that, we need to get multilateralism back on track. the new director-general has set in motion a path of innovation, but she needs the help of the european union to bring solutions to the table. unfortunately, the commission remains the main obstacle in the negotiations on a suspension of the trips agreement, a position in which the european union is becoming increasingly isolated, at a moment of last resort. ladies and gentlemen, the world is watching and that is why the european parliament must demand more ambition. i ask the commission to support the suspension of the trips agreement to protect human lives rather than the profits of the pharmaceutical industry. we also need a green agenda for global trade. it is high time that the commission put forward the announced climate proposals for trade. we also need action on harmful subsidies and biodiversity protection. we want policy space around the circular economy and technology transfer. we need to define what eco-friendly products actually are to stop greenwashing. colleagues, global problems require global solutions. this is a global problem. i therefore ask that multilateralism be given priority and that the rules of the game be respected in order to achieve fair outcomes. it is now up to europe to show leadership. show the world that we prefer health over pharmaceutical profits. show that we're going to address the climate crisis and overfishing. and most of all: put forward proposals that can actually make those promises come true.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr dombrovskis, vice-president of the commission, please understand the historical context in which you are going to geneva, and a part of our house too, and in which context decisions will be taken there by consensus of the 160 members, decisions which will be decisive for the future of a fair, rules-based, multilateral world trading system! our world is being shaken by a pandemic that has already claimed more than five million lives. in my own country, germany, the figure of 100,000 victims will be exceeded before the end of this week. but overall in europe, china and the united states, the only reason there aren't so many more deaths is because we have vaccines. the rest of the world is living in fear, and the majority of states are asking the wto to help with the waiver. if patents are getting in the way of survival, it's time to clear the way. the commissioner, please find the golden way for the temporary waiver, also in the interests of the eu! the wto is in danger of losing its legitimacy if the geneva ministerial conference fails to respond once again to the needs of the world's population. we are called upon to put an end to hunger in the world, as was promised when the wto was set up. the eu is true to its word. our resolution therefore asks you, mr vice-president, to use all the influence of the european commission to ensure that the food package, the package of decisions proposed by director-general okonjo-iweala to feed the world, is adopted in geneva. i appreciate your initiatives to make the task of sustainability a strong part of the wto. make it your priority that the wto commits itself to supporting sustainable development and joins the fight against climate catastrophe with all its potential! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm concerned that here, of all places, there are elements of our house that will question this during mc 12. this is not only contrary to the consensus at the time of its creation, but also excludes the majority of member states, without which the wto cannot be reformed and fair trade cooperation cannot be achieved.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i apologize for being late. madam president, thank you for your gracious hospitality. we have before us a very good resolution on the 12th ministerial conference of the world trade organization in geneva. we want to work together to restore the functioning of the enforcement mechanism, to reduce subsidies for overfishing and illegal fishing, to create common rules for online trade. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, the left wing of this house is once again choosing to give such high priority to the temporary suspension of intellectual property rights that they are putting this good resolution in jeopardy. and when people say that if you lift patents, you can vaccinate one more person, that's not true. it would not help the vaccine progress at all. but it is putting the future of european research at risk. i don't know if you've ever considered how much it costs to develop an mrna vaccine like this: between 50 and 100 billion euros. and how many misses? they make 200 models, and you can only take one. so it is a pity that for some time now i have had the impression that even the greens and the left, under the impression of donald trump's policy against multilateralism, are returning a little to the path of the world trade organization. we are against the suspension of intellectual property rights, but we are in favour of reforming the wto for a multilateral world trade based on rules and values. the epp is committed to this, and that is why we stand with the commission and commissioner dombrovskis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are a trading power as europe, and that is why it is important that we have rules and institutions to regulate this trade. i thank both rapporteurs for this, as is clear from your report. this is the way we need to maintain prosperity and peace on our continent. the big issue we have to argue about is whether we should give up our intellectual property, our intellectual property, for vaccines. and we are not going to go along with this, because we are living in a transition from industry to the service society. the most important asset we have is intellectual property. if we are to forgo this protection of intellectual property for any reason what should such a service company do and how should it continue to make its fortune? it may sound good, but the opposite of good is also good here. if we want to maintain prosperity in the future, we can only do so if we develop our intellectual capacity and if we protect intellectual property, inventive spirit and also assign an economic value to them. communism, everything free for everyone, does not lead to prosperity and trade, but to poverty. and for that reason we can only agree if trips is dropped.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday, 24 november 2021, and the final vote will take place on thursday, 25 november 2021.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina (2021/2974 ((rsp)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. no, the worlds of experience - also of young people - are still very separate. they consume different media, they go to different schools. instead of caring about building a society based on shared values and goals, political leaders are digging ever deeper into the trenches. but where there's smoke, there's not always fire, thankfully. as an eu, we should no longer take the blockades of ethnic nationalist representatives in the country as a guide. we should talk to the elected parliamentarians, to the civil society that is alert and wants to create unity and perspectives, because there are others, not just those who want to draw political conclusions from the division. we will not stand by and watch dodik jeopardize the peace of the last 26 years in the european parliament for fear of elections and poor opinion polls. it is time we talked about the real problems of the country and became true partners of bosnia and herzegovina in its efforts to become part of the european union as well.
the debate is closed.
the meeting is closed and will resume tomorrow, wednesday 24 november 2021, at 9.00 a.m. with the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of cop 26 in glasgow. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
we now come to the debates.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of cop26 in glasgow (2021/2975 (rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in any of the debates of this session. as in previous sessions, there will also be contacts from parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also like to point out that the plenary sessions will continue to be held at the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium when your speech is due. the debate is opened by mr logar, on behalf of the council of foreign ministers.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, climate change is the defining challenge of the century. international cooperation on both climate change mitigation and adaptation is critical to successfully addressing this challenge, which requires an unprecedented collective effort from all countries. it is as well a priority of the slovenian presidency to concentrate efforts for the green transition. the uk presidency of cop 26 had set four main objectives that needed to be achieved: securing global net zero by mid-century and keeping the 1.5-degrees target within reach; adapting to protect communities and natural habitats; mobilising finances; finalising the paris agreement rulebook. after two weeks of intense discussion, cop 26 resulted in the completion of the paris agreement rulebook and kept the paris target alive, improving our chances of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius. the glasgow climate pact is a result of complex climate negotiations. it is a package on which almost 200 parties reached a consensus. as regards mitigation, parties noted with serious concern the current gap between the aggregate mitigation pledges and the 1.5-degree goal, despite several net zero announcement. for this reason, parties are asked to submit a paris-aligned 2030 target in 2022, and an annual high-level ministerial roundtable on pre-2030 ambition will be convened from 2022 onwards. in a break from previous cops, parties for the first time are called upon to accelerate efforts toward the phase-down of unabated coal power and phase-out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies. during the first days of cop 26, parties also announced a series of initiatives and commitments that bring the world closer to achieving the paris goals. most notably, leaders signed the glasgow leaders’ declaration on forests and land use, committing more than 140 countries to halt and reverse forest loss and land degradation by 2030, and the global methane pledge, committing 100 countries to collectively reduce global methane emissions by 30% by 2030. the commission signed this commitment on behalf of the european union. as regards adaptation, a comprehensive two-year work programme on the global goal on adaptation will be launched. moreover, the santiago network for catalysing technical assistance to address loss and damage as a result of climate change has been strengthened, which is in particular important for the most vulnerable countries. as regards finance, the paris parties regrettably noted that the pledge of usd 100 billion in climate finance per year by 2020 has not been met. however, developed countries committed to reaching the goal as soon as possible and to at least double their collective provision of climate finance dedicated to adaptation in developing countries. parties made considerable progress in the operationalisation of the loss and damage mechanism and decided that the issue of financial commitment would be addressed at cop 27. one of the main eu goals was the finalisation of the rule book, and this was achieved. as regards the rulebook of the paris agreement, the parties adopted rules on the transparency framework, guaranteeing sound reporting on climate action progress. moreover, parties are encouraged to set five-year common time frames for 2040 onwards. in addition, parties reached an acceptable compromise on achieving rules governing the functioning of a voluntary carbon market, avoiding double counting. the eu was very well represented in the negotiation stance and as the uk presidency appointed some eu ministers as lead negotiator, with per bolund on finance, dan jørgensen on mitigation, teresa ribera on adaptation and carole dieschbourg on loss and damage. ministers met daily in eu coordination meetings to share the progress in negotiations and discuss tactics and lines to take to achieve an ambitious compromise. on this occasion, they were debriefed by the cop 26 president, alok sharma, and by the un secretary general, antónio guterres. and i know that the european parliament delegation was present in glasgow, holding daily briefings with the slovenian presidency and following progress closely. all together, cop 26 represent a significant step forward in global climate action, helping to keep the paris goals within reach. there is, however, still a lot of work ahead of us in terms of mitigation, adaptation and finance in order to ensure a safe future for humanity on this planet.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, cop26 did not solve the climate crisis, but that was also not the purpose of cop26. it had to bring the objectives of the paris agreement within reach and allow us to start implementing this deal. this it did. this cop sharpened our focus and gave us momentum. i believe it does represent clear progress. i believe we’re now travelling in the right direction – a direction set two years ago by the european union. the glasgow cop embraced the highest level of ambition of the paris agreement as our common target. we now have a global consensus on the need to limit climate change to 1.5 degrees. ten days after cop26, this almost seems like a given now, but ten days before we began, the mantra was still below 2 degrees, and some countries even challenged the fact that paris ever spoke of 1.5. in addition, countries that do not have nationally determined contributions (ndcs) in line with this 1.5-degree target will have to come back next year to deliver the required update. for the first time, the parties at cop26 agreed to phase down coal and fossil fuel subsidies. whatever you may think about the precise language that was necessary to get the whole package over the finish line, this is a big win. of course, if you compare ‘phase down’ with the initial formulation ‘phase out’, you’re disappointed but, as greenpeace said in glasgow, changing a word doesn’t change the signal. the era of coal is ending. before glasgow, the commission set three objectives: first, to push for emission cuts that bring us within paris territory with ndcs that keep global warming well below 2 degrees, while aiming for 1.5; second, to close the gap on the usd 100 billion climate finance goal, while ramping up support for adaptation; and, third, to complete the paris rulebook so that we can keep track of progress and hold countries to account. the paris rulebook seems like an esoteric subject sometimes, but it is essential to have carbon markets actually function in a way we want them to function. on all these three issues, we saw clear progress. two years ago, at the cop in madrid, the eu laid down our ambition for climate neutrality by 2050. at that stage, there was little to no movement from other major emitters in the g20, china, the us, but also japan, south korea, india, russia, saudi arabia and others. since then, each of these countries has announced targets of their own, varying from climate neutrality in 2050 to net zero carbon emissions in 2060, and, in a single case, india, 2070. 90% of the global economy is now on a net—zero trajectory. that was only 30% a year ago. we went into the cop on track for 2.7 degrees warming – way too much, but a lot less than the 3 or 4 degrees we were headed for in paris, and after cop, for the very first time, we have a shot at staying below 2 degrees. we will see in the coming weeks what the actual number is, but we still have a shot at staying below 2 degrees. i will not take into my narrative the 1.8 mentioned by the international energy agency. let’s see, in the coming weeks when we do the calculation, where we are but we have a chance of staying below two degrees. moreover, cop26 agreed to accelerate our actions still this decade and revisit the ndcs next year with a focus on the 1.5 degrees. this new marker on the calendar is due to a push from the eu to keep the pressure on because the world leaders summit made clear that, with the right pressure, ambition levels will in fact go up. over one third of all global financing comes from the eu and its member states. we are doing our share and more, and we continue asking others to do the same. heading into the cop, there was still a gap of about usd 20 billion on the developed world’s commitment towards the developing world. this is why, in this house, the president of the commission committed an additional eur 4 billion to climate finance. it pressured others to do the same or to follow suit. shortly after our commitments, the united states announced their own usd 11.4 billion commitment. during glasgow, other donors added to this to bring us closer to this goal, and we may reach it next year instead of 2023. we also started to look beyond 2025 at long—term needs. adaptation finance will at least double and we will start a dialogue to discuss finance for loss and damage. glasgow also strengthened the global network of agencies that provide immediate relief and assistance to countries who already suffer from the consequences of the climate crisis. and here, i must say that the eu and our member states played a leading role. four member states committed a total of usd 25 million dollars to the santiago network for its functioning, and i think this is an important signal. the issue of loss and damage will grow in importance at future cops, and we should engage in all sincerity with those who already today suffer from climate—induced catastrophes. if we really want to succeed at the next cop in sharm el-sheikh, we now have to work closely, especially with our sister continent of africa, in preparing this – on adaptation and on finance, on carbon sinks, on how to best have nature—based solutions, and on how to help them in their energy transition. all these things are crucial, starting now, if we want sharm el-sheikh to be a success. i already mentioned the completion of the paris rulebook. it seems like a technical matter, but it is of essential importance for the carbon markets to start to work because the essence of the global approach to decarbonisation is putting a price on carbon, and you have to be able to compare the way we do that for carbon markets to work well. that is now possible because we can close the rulebook because it is agreed. so what does this mean for the eu? glasgow confirmed that the eu is a global leader and a necessary bridge builder. our climate diplomacy, supported by credible policies and commitments, our carefully nurtured climate dialogues with countries like japan, china and turkey, and our outreach to others like india, brazil and indonesia, have helped to push all major emitters to step up their ambition. each of these countries will roll out and accelerate its own green transition. european companies, who are already frontrunners in renewables and hydrogen in the circular economy, stand to benefit. think, for example, of india, which committed to reach 500 gw in renewable energy by 2030. that is a massive, massive opportunity, also an economic opportunity, for european industry. climate action knows no quick fixes. it will never be solved in a single conference. but the climate crisis is accelerating and so should we. fighting this crisis requires constant effort and unrelenting pressure on all governments, especially the major emitters, and it requires everybody’s participation. that is why it is also good that this cop strengthened the involvement of indigenous peoples, the youth and local governments. now we must set our sights on sharm el-sheikh, as i said. getting fit for 55 adopted ahead of next year’s cop will mean that, yet again, the european union is putting pressure on others to step up their game, and all are following the fact that we are the only ones who have a real plan to get us to our emission reductions – legally binding emission reductions – by 2030 and 2050. in europe, we must keep up the legislative work. you are so, so much in charge now, with the council, to make it happen. we’ve come a long way, my friends, but we still have a very, very, very long way to go if we want to get where we need to be. our situation – and i have to say this – is dire, but it is not hopeless. what needs to be done is bloody hard, much harder than most are willing to acknowledge today. but it is a path we must walk, and walk with speed and determination, for all our sakes but, first and foremost, for the sake of our children and grandchildren. it must be done. it can be done. it will be done. and please make it personal. think of people you love. think of people you want to act for. i think of my kids. i think of my grandson. and i also think of a 15—year—old girl. her name was rosa. she died in rendeux in the flood. she was the daughter of one of my commission colleagues, ditte juul jørgensen. i think of her today.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this glass is more than half full, and i also rate the results of the glasgow climate conference as more than half full. a lot has been achieved. when we were in madrid two years ago, the eu was the only major economy that had committed to climate neutrality. in the two years up to and in glasgow, practically the whole world has joined. not only have developed countries like the united states, canada, australia, japan, but also a developing country like south africa, committed to be climate neutral by 2050. the meeting with the south african delegation was particularly impressive to me. but there's still a huge problem, and that's why the glass isn't really full. it's not enough. above all, what we have in ambition for 2030 is not enough. we still have the fact that the world's largest emitter, china, wants to increase its emissions by 2030. then, in the minds of our children and grandchildren, we will not be able to control climate change. that's why we're not there yet. i'm focused on four things right now. first, we must work even more with third countries, especially african countries, and also write our legislation so that they will follow. second, we need ambition, of course. but we also have to do it in a way that we are an example for others, that the world says: we want to do it like the european union. we need technology to do this, and to do this, we need to achieve climate change at the lowest possible cost. and that does not mean that we politicians decide what is done in detail, but the citizens. the best way to do this is with market systems. so i thank the commission for putting so much emphasis on emissions trading in fit for 55. finally, if it is true that we are not yet at the target and that china has this irresponsibly bad target, then we need to continue to protect against carbon leakage, because we do not want to deindustrialize europe, but we want to decarbonize industry.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president timmermans, after four years of uncertainty over the united states' withdrawal from the paris agreement, it seems that in glasgow the international community is returning to the path of responsibility and solidarity: solidarity with future generations who want to live on a healthy planet. four years ago, we knew that we couldn't exceed the one-and-a-half degree limit of warming of the temperature above pre-industrial levels. we played a lot. and finally, in glasgow, the parties have confirmed this objective. for some, of course, it's not enough, and i understand that. i understand that because we must always aspire to more. but as europeans know, every great enterprise is built step by step, and this is a very important step. the parties have agreed on the technical details of the paris agreement regulatory code (the 'rulebook') and have agreed to review their commitments by the end of 2022. in addition, developed countries are going to double their contribution to the adaptation funds. to some this may seem like a small thing, but two years ago this would have seemed impossible to us. the european union has done a great diplomatic job, because we know that for this global challenge we need to mobilize the whole world. and so i would like to congratulate frans timmermans on the difficult negotiations, on his discreet and effective work. and we are going to show that we cannot wait any longer and that the european union needs to set an example. it has been with the green deal, with the climate law and it will be with the package of measures objective 55. but we don't want to stay here and now we're back to work to take another step forward. we in our political family will continue to work to ensure that this transition takes people into account. for the first time in glasgow, there is talk of a 'just transition', something we have been talking about for a long time. we will fight for social conditionality to be in every report, in every piece of legislation, because we will not be able to change our habits if we are not also able to prevent the most vulnerable classes from paying the bill for the ecological transition. our whole economy must be consistent with this great goal: to leave a habitable planet for future generations, because we need a green future with a red heart.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not one of those who think that europe has not been active enough at cop 26. i saw those reviews. i was chairman of the european parliament delegation in glasgow with peter liese and i saw you, mr vice-president frans timmermans, active on all fronts. i saw europe active in defending the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, i saw europe active in convincing china and the united states to do more, i saw europe active in its solidarity with the most vulnerable countries. so i don't share the criticism that has been levelled at you. but we must draw the consequences of cop 26 for us here in brussels and strasbourg. what does that mean? it means first that we have to look at our own commitment to 2030, which is aligned to 2 degrees, but not aligned to the 1.5 degree target, we know. the commitment we made in glasgow, the commitment the major emitters made in glasgow - china, the united states and us - is to put our 2030 target back on track to align it with the 1.5 degree target. we, the european parliament - and this is my call to all political groups today - must therefore take the initiative to rework the 2030 commitment to be in line with the 1.5°c target. that is the commitment we made in glasgow. if we don't do it, how can we pressure the us and china to do it? the second element is that all your post-glasgow and post-european climate law proposals must now be genuinely aligned with climate objectives. you did, and i commend you on it, with the world's first law against imported deforestation. it is a major project supported by the european parliament. you have been very good and we will continue to improve this text. but this is not the case for the 'methane strategy'. the methane strategy is starting to come out. you yourself, frans timmermans, have been the leader of a global methane strategy with ambitious quantified targets. but when you come out with the european strategy a few days later, it is not aligned with the objectives you have set at world level. so we will have to rework it. it is still in the european commission, you have several weeks to do it. another element is the list of projects of general interest which we are going to finance. we asked you in the european parliament, the renew group told you last time: we will not vote on a new list of gas projects if they are not aligned with the requirements of the green deal and climate neutrality. what is coming out is absolutely not in line with the 1.5 degree target, and so i strongly urge you to review that list. if not, i think the european parliament will have to oppose it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was almost 30 years ago at the earth summit in rio that the un climate process was launched. a leading representative of the epp, jacques chirac, said: 'our house is burning and we are looking elsewhere'. if he had come to glasgow, he could have said that our house is burning more and more, we watch it burn and we do nothing. or, at most, we promise to act tomorrow, some day, mañana. the end of deforestation? oh, in ten years. the coal, the heat engine? maybe someday. the one about fossil fuel subsidies? only if they're ineffective. in this bleak landscape, of all the major economic powers, the union has been the best. she alone came to glasgow with a significant uplift in her climate ambitions. and if the - 55% is not enough, it is at least written into the law. now we must make these commitments a reality. the least that can be said is that yesterday's vote on the common agricultural policy is a bad start. of course, against all odds, it can be said that it is fully aligned with the european green deal. that's a lie. no compulsory measures to reduce chemical inputs. no quantified carbon absorption target. and as a bonus, we're cutting subsidies to organic. ladies and gentlemen, let us not repeat this fraud with the package of 'adjustment to objective 55'. to do that, we're gonna have to overcome the resistance. and believe me, the most passionate are not the yellow vests, who, contrary to what we hear, are convinced of the climate and environmental emergency. rather, they come mainly from capital holders who only support climate action if it does not affect their profits. i was at the french employers' summer school. i heard the oil industry representative ask me, as a political leader, to guarantee his sector its cash flow. this is a scandal! it's not decent! in the face of these rentiers of the system, i have also seen many entrepreneurs who, already today, are committed to us for the transition. so to my friends in the epp and renew, who sometimes hesitate to support the transition in full, i say this: a true liberal will always side with the entrepreneurs and against the rentiers, especially if, to defend their rents, they are ready to sack the planet.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, vice-president and colleagues! for the 26th time, we have all witnessed the great spectacle of the world climate conference. in order to have a media-friendly debate on how we can save the climate of our planet, some participants flew to glasgow by private jet. but who am i to say that mrs von der leyen, even on ridiculously short distances, is known to appreciate the advantages of this means of transport which is not very friendly to the climate. now, how can we summarize the results of cop 26? the increasingly disoriented politics of the world is bowing to the irrationality and panic-mongering of the fridays-for-future kids. a few countries are trying to save the world's climate in an unprecedented frenzy, by systematically ruining their economies, while the world's largest emitter, china, continues to have no intention of reducing its emissions. i say it very clearly: we do not need a panic attack, we do not need the 100th climate conference, we do not need absurd xy-degree targets, but we need innovation, technical progress and, above all, prudence to reduce co2 emissions in the long term. it should be known by example what a technical masterpiece the most modern diesel engines are, how far this technology is superior to other drive technologies in terms of efficiency and ecology. it is folly to destroy this technology out of political arbitrariness. the future does not belong to any ideologically motivated prohibitionist nonsense, but to a clever and complete technological openness. the current massive subsidy-driven eautohype will only cause a mindless shake of the head about this error of our times in two decades. it is economically, ecologically and even socially pointless and counterproductive. my party and i have always been committed to the most modern nuclear energy as a source of energy. and so i very much welcome the fact that more and more countries in europe are coming to the understanding that we cannot do without them if we want to reduce our co2 emissions and at the same time ensure a reliable and affordable energy supply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear safety is not compromised. the fact that we are now in the process of adopting a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very serious matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only more environmentally friendly but also more environmentally friendly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cop26 was not a big blah blah blah, as some have said, and the results are clear. the reference to reducing fossil fuels for the first time in a final document, the choice to fight deforestation and stop it by 2030, and the decision to invest over 19 billion dollars to replant a billion trees by 2050 are an important signal that it has arrived. those who question these results seem more concerned with challenging a model of market society, western society, than with committing to the fight against climate change. it says nothing against china, which is the world's biggest polluter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment. europe, let us remember, emits only 8% of greenhouse gases. it is obvious that the fight against climate change must involve industry and agriculture. there's 520 billion invested in transition and green. it takes a public and private effort, but we have to put industry and agriculture in a position to change. setting goals alone is not going to do much good. we must put these two sectors, which are fundamental to the real economy and which are fundamental to the west, in a position to be able to transform themselves, through substantial funding. if we think about the dangers facing the automobile sector in my own country, italy, i cannot but stress the need for investment, since 60 000 jobs are at risk by 2035. well, all of this should push us to go forward, because we have a duty to defend the planet, but to do it intelligently, without politicization, aiming at what we have to leave as a legacy to our children.
mr president, i would like to thank my dear friends for their efforts. we started to turn this table around after the 2015 paris agreement. we tweaked different parts and sectors of the issues. this led very easily to us choosing different issues according to the different priorities of different parties. what we now are trying to do is to turn the whole system around. this is, of course, a much more complicated issue. when we tweak different parts of the whole, we do not need to bother about how they fit into a systemic whole. when you look into the challenges of cop26 and fit for 57, we need to take into account how the different parts fit into each other, and that’s going to make it much more difficult. as commissioner timmermans said in his speech, this is the challenge we have in front of us. we are at the beginning of an enormous challenge because there will be frictions between the different parts of the different issues we are trying to change. but we have just one choice: we will and we must prevail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, cop26 has confirmed that the rhythm of politics and the rhythm of nature are dramatically uncoupled. we know that, before cop26, the warming forecast for 2100 was 2.7°c, but that forecast is now 1.8°c, if all the agreements are implemented. that's still far too far from the 1.5 degrees that science requires us to avoid collapse. true, not all failures are failures. the agreement to reduce methane emissions and the explicit inclusion of coal in the commitments are good news, but as the un secretary-general has said, this is not enough. it is foolhardy to have postponed funding of $100,000 a year for the green transition of developing countries until 2023. in fact, as the global inequality laboratory report explained, the carbon pollution map matches perfectly with the global economic inequalities map. the richest 2% of the world's population emits almost 48% of global emissions, and the richest 1% produces 17% of the total, while the poorest half is responsible for only 12%. we can't save the planet if we don't act faster, but more importantly, we can't save the planet if we don't make it fairer.
(reacting to off-micro remarks) colleague tertsch, this is not speakers’ corner. you had an earlier slot to speak, you were on the screens, and it is my normal practice not to take people who were not in place when it was their turn, so i do make an exception, but first ms bentele.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i attended this cop with three hats: as a member of the industry committee, as a member of the development committee and as a member of the environment committee. on the industrial policy front, i was particularly impressed by the conversation with the chinese delegation. of course, the target of 2060 is too late, but they have taken concrete action. they have seen emissions trading as an effective tool, and china is the world leader in many areas of future technologies. so i think that cooperation with china in environmental protection is worthwhile, that we should continue to cooperate closely and intensify our work. and of course, it was important for development policy that there was a real focus on adaptation to climate change. mr president, you have said that we must work more closely with africa. in my conversation with commissioner lenarčič yesterday, it was clear that there are now humanitarian emergencies. so we must now adjust our development policy accordingly. we have committed ourselves to investing 30% of our funds in environmental and climate action, and we must do so now. the environmental policy measures are mentioned: methane, industrial and deforestation strategy are very important. i believe that the eu can make a positive overall assessment. she was very well prepared. it was credible in its objectives and concrete measures and in its financing. i think we can really become a role model for others.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so let's look at the question of whether the recent climate summit in glasgow was a success. 40 000 registered participants were carted together using the co2 that was decided to be eliminated there. net zero co2 is only going to work so well on paper for the foreseeable future. but mrs von der leyen was able to spend €1 billion from the eu budget, taxpayers' money, on some global forests. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. and again, the promise was to distribute money printed in the eu and elsewhere generously: $100 billion a year from 2023, and because that hasn't worked so far, double that from 2025. bmw and volkswagen have not joined the declaration to phase out combustion engines by 2035, even though they know and have done nothing about it, that this is exactly what will happen in the eu. but i think it's wiser to take the tax-subsidized e cars here and invest the money elsewhere. china and india have effectively reversed the coal phase-out. china started to cut down on coal in 2020. three times as many coal plants have been connected to the grid there as in the rest of the world. satire off. but seriously, why should an economically successful nation also emulate the economic and energy policy nonsense from brussels?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is interesting how differently the glasgow results are judged here. i think it's a great step forward that for the first time the 1.5 degree global warming limit is explicitly mentioned in the final report. but we have nothing to be proud of. and the efforts to water down the 'fit for 55' package show that the eu's public image as a climate pioneer is on thin ice. and nowhere is this more apparent than in methane emissions. the eu is proud to be the initiator of the global methane pact, which aims to reduce methane emissions by 30% by 2030. but the leaked bill doesn't even have a reduction target. the commission is also ignoring all the demands we voted on last month in parliament in our own-initiative report by a large majority. mr timmermans, this is more than disappointing, it is a scandal. i am hereby calling on you to put your words into action and make sure that we are not just collecting data, but actually reducing methane emissions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for me, this cop was a conference of good intentions. we've heard new long-term plans from the biggest carbon emitters, promises to end deforestation or reduce methane emissions. this is a very good example of how the paris mechanism, which is to renew the targets every five years in the eyes of the world public, is working. but whether there is really more climate protection depends on concrete action. the eu has also taken some homework: we need ambitious implementation of the 'fit for 55' package to also exceed the 2030 targets, because this is no time for picking raisins; all sectors must play their part. i am addressing the right-wing side, which always discovers its social side in this debate. the social question must be the driver of our climate ambition, not a lame excuse for less climate ambition. only by expanding renewable energy, only by having alternative mobility, only by promoting energy efficiency measures, can all people really participate in this transformation. but the eu also has a responsibility to act across borders. this applies to the area of climate finance, but it also applies to the whole of deforestation, where i am very grateful for the commission's proposal: it is going in the right direction. we need to close some loopholes. we have been at the forefront of these climate negotiations, and we cannot rest on our laurels. we must keep up the pace, and we will do so in the coming weeks and months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. after this climate conference, we have it in black and white: we are not reaching the climate targets of the paris agreement, not the 1.5 degrees and not the 2 degrees. and the european union's climate targets are not enough. now the world has to sit down, now we have to sit down and present new climate targets at the climate conference in a year's time, so that we don't become treaty-breakers. we can do this, the instruments are on the table: an early phase-out of coal by 2030, a massive expansion of renewable energy, a rapid end to the combustion engine and the end of fossil subsidies. we can do all of that right here in this house. i appeal to you. i remember the climate emergency we declared two years ago. let's guarantee the freedom of our children by implementing the 1.5 degree target! we're all in this together, literally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. today we are voting on the subject of 'policies and legislation for legal migration'. we have been informed about this in our preliminary information and by the eprs analysts at committee level. the eprs information contained in this study, entitled 'european added value of eu policy and the right to legal migration', states that: in the eu, public opinion strongly supports eu measures to promote the registration and rights of tcn companies and the creation of start-up companies by these individuals. the problem is that the commission consultation on which eprs based this claim is not representative to make such a claim. this is a serious mistake and a very serious misrepresentation of the facts. the fact that the whole dossier on which we are voting today is also about this issue, that is to say, the promotion of the migration of third-country nationals to the eu, makes the error even more serious. i informed the eprs about this over a month ago and asked that a message be sent to all members, but so far this has not been done. in view of this, i propose that the vote on this dossier be cancelled today and that this report be returned to the committee concerned for a new vote.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. before discussing how brussels can best vaccinate the world with its completely new vaccines, which are needed in record time, it is better to talk about facts and figures: for example, about a completely opaque eu commission, about drug contracts that are blacked out on every page and about communications that have been deleted; for example, the efficacy of covid-19 vaccines, their side effects, risk groups, erratic measures, and the sacrosanct nature of any critical discussion in public. the rki in germany has changed its wording from august, when vaccination was 'an effective protection against disease' to 'protects the vast majority of vaccinated persons against serious disease'. the highest incidence of hospitalizations and deaths is by far among those aged over 80 in germany, followed by those aged over 60, although these groups have a vaccination rate of around 90%. the johns hopkins university data from over 200 countries shows that there is no correlation between vaccination rates and incidence. according to euromomo, which collects official mortality data, there is no excess mortality at present. the paul-ehrlich institute has now received reports of 1,802 deaths related to corona vaccinations. this is 5,500 times more deaths than were recorded for all vaccinations administered in 2016. the who vigiaccess database lists 2.5 million cases of adverse events related to the covid-19 vaccine. that's more than all the side effects of the last few decades combined. so it is completely incomprehensible to me why a rational weighing of the personal risks of a corona infection against those of a vaccination should be morally reprehensible. personal health is not a shared commons, and corona is not your political ticket to digital surveillance. and you, mr president, better put up with my arguments!
madam president, only 5 % of people in low—income countries have received a first dose of the vaccine, not because they do not want to have the vaccine, but because there are not enough vaccines available to them. this is a shame. it has been more than a year since south africa and india put forward the proposals for trips waiver. a lot of colleagues have mentioned it already. they called for this in order to protect their citizens from the virus, and this is quite a legitimate reason. and yet, the commission continues to oppose this lifesaving proposals, despite a clear demand from this parliament. we need to keep in mind the waiver would be only temporary. there has already been so much money put into the vaccine. charity approaches like covax alone are not enough. the pandemic really requires exceptional and brave decisions if we really want to fight it. i urge you to support the trips waiver next week.
i have to say, madam president, so now we want to vaccinate the whole world. but why? the reasoning used so far has been either false or misleading. let me summarize . at first, they said they wanted to vaccinate only the vulnerable groups, people over 60. now they say, "no, you have to start at 18". then the second reason was, you have herd immunity from 70 percent. now it says, "we need 100 percent". and that is the height of the absurdity: the unvaccinated are a danger to the vaccinated. that's not what you heard before. then the third reason was that you have to get vaccinated out of solidarity, out of solidarity with the vulnerable groups. now they're saying that the vaccinated have a particularly high viral load. and that means that for vulnerable groups, it's obviously safest to have unvaccinated people visiting. and then we also have more and more vaccine breakthroughs, people who get very sick with covid despite being vaccinated twice. and the rationale that you hear here is that if two vaccines have failed completely, then we urgently need a third vaccine with a vaccine that is likely to fail just as the vaccine failed with the previous two vaccines. that's really smart. in germany, we have 48 confirmed deaths that were related to vaccination. these are just the cases that were autopsied. of course, we know that many people who have died after being vaccinated have not been autopsied. that means the dark figure is probably many times higher. if some company, say nestlé or pepsi or some other company, were to bring a product to market that would kill 48 people in a year, we wouldn't be talking about whether we should maybe put that product out into the world, but we would be talking about whether you should not arrest the management. i would urge this parliament to do the same. we should talk about the efficacy of vaccines and about liability issues for the management of vaccine manufacturers. i think that is what this parliament should be focusing on, not vaccinating the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the energy union was and is the main thrust from brussels to finally take the scepter of independent national action from the member states. the original rationale of reducing the eu's energy dependence and ensuring security of supply is being distorted by the current political climate commitment to its opposite. today, we're talking about the green deal, and the five goals are: decarbonisation, decarbonisation, decarbonisation, decarbonisation, and fifth, managing the resulting energy shortage. the abrakadabra decision aims to increase the share of renewables in gross electricity consumption from the current 19% to a maximum of 40% over the next eight years. bank of america has calculated the madness in numbers: an unimaginable $150 trillion, twice the world's total gross domestic product, or $5 trillion a year for the next 30 years. but that still doesn't include security of supply. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to vote for the report.
mr president, dear kadri simson, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the state of the energy union report addresses where our problems lie. we need more renewables and more energy efficiency to end our dependence on fossil fuels and - as we are now realizing - the risk of price leaps. i therefore welcome the commission's plan to help the renewable energy source with the greatest potential to make a breakthrough in europe through a solar strategy. because it's not the cost anymore. solar power is produced in portugal for less than 1.5 cents per kilowatt hour, and even in less sun-worn germany, it is less than 5 cents. but unnecessarily complicated planning procedures and red tape act like a subsidy for fossil fuels. our energy cooperative - when i was not yet in politics - finally succeeded in installing solar panels in a rented house and providing electricity to the residents at a low cost, but we had regular correspondence with the grid operator and the main customs office. and the situation is no better in other member states. it would be folly, after all, if we were to continue to impede expansion with bureaucratic obstacles now that the cost trap has finally been broken.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's 2021, and the climate crisis has arrived in europe. we have had to mourn 246 flood victims this summer. yet, 52 billion euros are still spent on fossil fuel subsidies every year. this is a scandal. citizens' money is fueling the climate crisis. we need this money for transformation, for low-income people to be able to insulate their homes so they have to spend less on energy, for solar to be on every roof. it creates jobs, it prevents energy poverty. the future of europe must lie here. we must become the world leader in these technologies. let us use the money of our citizens wisely and responsibly! it is to enable freedom for future generations, not to destroy their future.
mr president, commissioner, councillor, i would like to thank you for your work. i was a member of the mission in slovenia, and at the end of the mission, the mission leader, sophie, found that the institutions were working. the judiciary, parliament, civil society and, above all, the press can work, and three quarters of the slovenian press are critical of the government. the mission director said that there were only four things that were problematic. first, data protection, but this is also the case in 90% of the european member states. secondly, we have talked about the appointment of european prosecutors. that's all over now. so, problem solved. thirdly, the funding of the national press agency, that too has now been done - so the problem is solved. and fourth, according to sophie in 't veld, the tone of communication between the government and the opposition is very sharp. that's right, you're right. slovenia is a divided country in this respect. but the eu is not the watchdog of choice of words, nor the nanny of friendly interaction. so there is no reason to continue monitoring slovenia. and three of the seven mission members made it clear that this was the end of it. and the real scandal is that these objections were not mentioned in the final report. instead, they want to continue monitoring, and that is nothing more than tax-funded slander of a conservative government. and as much as i admire sophie in the field, we shouldn't spend the next 30 years here watching all sorts of countries to the eternal glory of the head of the drfmg.
mr president, once again we gather here today to talk about the rule of law in one of our member states, and this time in the member state that is still holding the eu presidency. i heard your speech, minister, and i would like to have agreed to your conclusion on the importance of the rule of law. but unfortunately, your government is led by someone who in recent months has left no doubt as to his lack of respect for the european union and its institutions, as well as for the rule of law. we have seen janez janša trying to play propaganda videos during parliamentary hearings. we have witnessed him publicly insulting judges, journalists as well as members of this house. and last but not least, we have seen him obstructing the work of the european prosecutor’s office for six months, which has, fortunately, come to an end today. the establishment of the eppo was one of the biggest milestones in the field of judicial cooperation in recent years, and we are rightly proud of it. but why is the head of state acting like this in the first place? the answer is the same as with all of these leaders: because he wants to get rid of any form of control – at european level by blocking eppo, domestically when it comes to critical media and independent judiciary. this is always a very bad sign for the state of democracy in a country. minister, we have to have a common understanding of the rule of law, you said. quite – but not by negotiating between member states what governments like as control and what they don’t like, but according to our treaties and the rulings of the european court of justice. freedom of media pluralism and the independence of the judiciary are cornerstones of the principle of the rule of law, and all member states must respect them. last sentence. mr president, four months ago in this parliament, janez janša said that there were many issues more relevant than the rule of law. today i will say there is no issue that ever will be more relevant than safeguarding the rule of law, which is our backbone and our values, without which we cannot stand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in a parliamentary question to the commission i asked whether the non-appointment of prosecutors to the european public prosecutor's office was not a reason for triggering the rule of law mechanism under the regulation. the commission replied that non-cooperation with olaf and the european public prosecutor's office was indeed such a reason. but of course we haven't seen any real action in the last few months, and the rule of law mechanism is being used, and that's a long-term trend. we see that people are watching, and we see that they are following the example of hungary, then poland, and now, more and more, slovenia. we must therefore finally take decisive action on the question of the rule of law in europe. but i am also confident today because i am proud of the coalition agreement of the new federal government, which has drawn a clearer line in the rule of law. we must fight together in europe more resolutely for european values, otherwise there will be those who will continue to undermine european values.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the time is long gone when it was taken for granted that everyone in the eu stood for democracy. the speed with which we are seeing the anti-democratic developments in poland and hungary is breathtaking. and it's no wonder that we've been watching very closely what's been happening in ljubljana for months and years. the example of hungary and poland must not be a lesson. and it's good that we're moving forward with the prosecution now. it's also good that the sta news agency has finally found a solution. but this cannot be a mere declaration of intent because of the council presidency. we are looking very closely, and i want to emphasize one thing here, and the truth includes this: for too long, your sister parties have covered up for this behaviour, not only in ljubljana but also in hungary and other countries. i therefore call on the colleagues who have spoken before not to just watch, but to act and commit yourselves to being a democratic family! act likewise and look very closely at what is happening in slovenia with the sister party!
mr president, minister logar, you stood here earlier and said that eppo membership and respect for the rule of law is of utmost importance for your government. yet the slovenian government used a personal vendetta of the prime minister against the eppo candidates to block their nomination for six months, preventing the fight against corruption, money laundering and vat fraud in slovenia. i find it irritating that prime minister janša has to face basically zero consequences for this action. no punishment whatsoever. the commissioner hasn’t used the rule of law conditionality. the other governments in the council have not even dared to criticise their colleague. the epp remains silent, says maybe it’s a bit unfortunate, but everything is great; nothing to see here. we have to be honest about these things. we have to speak up, regardless of whether people sit in our own party family, and those that attack the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary have to be sanctioned for that. we have to remember that ireland, denmark and sweden are still not members of eppo. they serve as a fig leaf for the corrupt and rule of law-attacking governments in poland and hungary. i can only say to all those that are serious about the rule of law in the european union: join eppo and speak out when you see something that’s going wrong.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, president lehne, commissioner, colleagues, the biggest share of eu taxpayers’ money goes for the cap, and therefore we must be most discerning and careful when using it. however, the commission had not carried out an impact assessment for the common provision regulation. regarding the cap proposal, a comprehensive set of reasoned evaluations covering all aspects was not available at the time the impact assessment was prepared. moreover, the area that is of great concern for us, the cap’s contribution to climate action, lacks a realistic way of estimating the direct payments made to farmers. in a special report, eca has stressed the mismatch of eu money spent on biodiversity on farmland and the very poor performance of these measures. here we see almost no positive effect of the allocated funds. false or incorrect reporting on the true climate-related spending is generally known as greenwashing. it goes against the true goals of the eu green deal, nextgenerationeu and all that the eu is doing to improve the way we live and treat the environment. unfortunately, there is no update on the audit of the former czech prime minister andrej babiš and his holding, agrofert, for the agriculture funds he has received. his conglomerate was identified as the biggest single recipient of eu agriculture funds in 2018 and 2019, reaching over eur 30 million each year. we have seen the very concerning conclusion of the regional and structural funds audit that confirms the babiš conflict of interest, but we are still waiting for the agriculture funds audit, which represents an even larger proportion of babiš’ fortune. yesterday’s vote on the new cap unfortunately just confirms the wrong way in which europe goes about agriculture and thus calls for even more rigorous, strict and law-proof control of cap spending.
madam president, i like it very much when the numbers add up, and i’m grateful that the european court of auditors checks that eu money is going where it’s supposed to go and if this money is well spent. the number that stands out from the annual report is obviously the error rate. 2.7% of the money is not going where it’s supposed to go. it is mismanaged, stolen or somehow lost along the way. that is an awful lot of money for the taxpayer. 2.7% might sound low, but we’re speaking about more than eur 4 billion every year that is lost. and that doesn’t even cover the real effect for the taxpayer, because what often happens is that the eu recoups the money so the damage to the eu taxpayer may be limited, but then it is, in a way, offloaded on the national taxpayer because too often member states don’t claim that money back from the companies and from the fraudsters. we have to stop this. we need better oversight, better management and more digital tools. this has all been managed here. ideally, all this should be overseen by eppo. as i said in the earlier debate, denmark, ireland and sweden urgently need to join the eppo. worryingly, though – and i think what eppo is showing us at the moment – is that the 2.7% error rate is probably in reality even higher because, if i look at the investigations that eppo has already opened, the amount of money that is concerned, well, that’s larger than the error rate that eca is giving us so we also need to look into that method and really find all the errors.
mr president, the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence is the first european convention to impose legal duties specifically to protect women. it’s been ratified by most eu member states. the eu is now calling on the remaining six members to follow soon. two comments. of course, women should be protected against violence. however, why only women? men are as likely to suffer domestic violence as women. why don’t they merit protection? second, some states object to ratification because they fear the courts may interpret the convention too broadly and apply it to gender matters unrelated to domestic violence and violence against women. the convention is specifically aimed at both, and the text freely refers to both, but little else. the vienna convention on the laws of treaties requires that treaties be interpreted in good faith and according to their ordinary meaning, unless that meaning is woefully unclear or absurd. yet the eu, and some national courts, commonly construe legal provisions dynamically, that means against their wording and to further purposes the courts invent and impose. the only safeguard against this undemocratic practice of judicial lawmaking by unelected and politically appointed officials, is the literal, or text-based, interpretation. what there is need for is a convention against judicial lawmaking, not the judicial extension of the istanbul convention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i speak as a european, as a woman, as a mother, as a grandmother, and i want to make it very clear: anyone who does not share the values, the content and the mandates of the istanbul convention cannot be part of this eu. because this eu is a promise, and above all a promise to women. the istanbul convention is something of a collector's item. the istanbul convention is a compilation of protection orders, a compilation of actions, a promise of peace for women and, above all, a uniform level of protection for all women in the eu. the istanbul convention is thus the most far-reaching instrument we currently have for protection against violence against women. and it is very clear that it is finally time to ratify this document, to ratify it as the eu, to ratify it by qualified majority, to waste no more time and to stand up very, very clearly on the side of women and on the side of men who are clearly fighting against violence against women. it's a group of women and men who want to take a step into the future. and the ancient men, we must overcome them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when the istanbul convention was adopted, many of us cheered. finally, an international instrument to combat gender-based violence - the thing that diminishes our lives, that takes lives. but today the istanbul convention is under attack by right-wing conservative, authoritarian forces. we see violence against women and lgbtq people diminishing and even being excused. we can't let that happen. no member state, poland or any other, should be able to renounce its commitment to combat violence against women. the women have spoken. we have courageously broken the silence. we're all here for each other. but i wonder: where are the men? where are the measures? where are the resources? where's the money? where is the crisis awareness that we see in other areas? this is terror against women's bodies. you act as if the politicians had no chance to do anything. it has. we will have zero tolerance for all forms of gender-based violence. we need more resources for the women's dormitories. we'll believe whoever dares to tell us. it takes courage to break the silence. we'll say that the perpetrator is to blame. we'll tell him the law is on your side. we will not rest until we have put an end to violence against women and girls.
mr president, violence against women can take many forms, from coercive control to physical abuse. earlier this month, my colleagues and i were delighted to welcome sarah benson of women’s aid ireland to the european parliament. the charity was a very deserving recipient of the 2021 european citizen’s prize, in recognition of the frontline support that they have provided since the outbreak of covid-19. figures show an increase of over 40% in calls to the charity’s helpline after march 2020. the figure is stark, and even more so when you remember that many instances of domestic abuse go unreported, due to the stigma and shame imposed on victims. my own country of ireland signed the istanbul convention in 2015, and i am pleased to say that we ratified it in march 2019. many policy and legal improvements were made leading up to the ratification, but that does not mean we should stop here. recent progress includes the commencement of coco’s law, which criminalises the taking and distribution of intimate images without consent. while i believe that we are seeing real and positive change, violence against women inside and outside the home in ireland and across the eu remains far too common. we must continue to fight to end it.
mr president, for already almost an hour and a half today, we have listened to the stories and we have listened to the numbers. but, madam commissioner, did we really hear them? i will repeat them: nearly one in three women have been abused in their lifetime and, since the covid pandemic, the figures are even worse. since the covid—19 pandemic, we see a real shadow pandemic. since the start, two in three women report that they have experienced some form of violence. colleagues, we must act and we must act together. luckily, there were a few men talking today, but most of us talking here were women. we need the men also to fight. may i say that? we also need you, because what is happening is no longer acceptable. for me, what should be done is that we need to believe the survivors. we must tackle the root causes and we should introduce one european helpline. we should take care of the victims. madam commissioner, we should make gender-based violence a european priority. there are many priorities, but for me, it’s a very important one that we can no longer accept. so please, push those six member states to ratify the istanbul convention. colleagues, altogether here, say no to violence to women.
mr president, gender-based violence has many forms and faces, and we see it everywhere. we have a tool to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence: the istanbul convention. it does not solve the problem all by itself, but it is a commitment to take action. now we see that this convention is being framed by autocratic regimes. they say it is against their history and culture to fight against gender—based violence. are you serious? some of them have even signed it themselves. we have to see it as part of the bigger picture. we currently witness the increase of transnational, highly-organised and well—funded anti—gender movements in the european union and worldwide that go hand—in—hand with anti-democratic movements. these movements put into question the achievements of women’s rights and endanger, at the same time, our democratic foundation. because it all goes together when you look at these regimes: fight against the independence of judiciary, fight against free media, fight against critical culture and the rights of women. that’s always the same pattern. now, we have to fight for the rights of women, and i’m happy to say that the new coalition contract in germany includes the full implementation of the istanbul convention. there are still small parts missing in the digital space, and this contract also makes clear that germany will fight for the ratification and implementation in our council of europe partner countries. this is the way to go.
mr president, commissioner, this is a scandal! today, six member states - bulgaria, hungary, latvia, lithuania, slovakia and the czech republic - have still not ratified the istanbul convention, which protects women, girls and the lgbti community. in addition, the polish government is threatening to withdraw. that is why ratification by the european union remains blocked in the council. refusing to sign this life-saving convention is a callous and cruel gesture in the face of violence against women in europe. in view of the increasing number of femicides, i can only turn to these six governments and remind them that through their attitude, they have blood on their hands. we in the european parliament cannot remain insensitive to this reality. that is why a very large majority, madam commissioner, will put forward legislative proposals that include the standards of excellence of the istanbul convention and the initiative to add violence against women and girls to the list of crimes enshrined in european law. commissioner, you can count on us to overthrow the patriarchy. count on us to fight together the anti-gender movements and their ideology. they're the ideologues in this story.
member of the commission. – mr president, europe is the frontrunner when it comes to elimination of violence against women and girls. women and girls deserve to live free from violence in europe and beyond. this is why the commission is not only working on eu-wide action and legislation, but is combating gender-based violence across the world. our main tools in this respect are the gender action plan iii and the ongoing eu-un spotlight initiative. earlier this year, the commission, as action coalition leader of the un generation equality forum on gender-based violence, committed itself to act through policy proposals, actions and funding, in combating gender-based violence across the world. ensuring that sufficient protection and support is available for all women and girls will help us achieve a world free from violence. i thank this parliament for its continuous support in our common goal by recalling this year’s theme for 25 november, ‘orange the world: end violence against women now!’.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – violence against women and girls is one of the most widespread, persistent and devastating human rights violations in our world today. while gender—based violence can happen to anyone, anywhere, women and girls are particularly vulnerable, for instance young girls and older women, migrants and refugees, indigenous women and ethnic minorities. violence against women continues to be an obstacle to achieving equality, development, as well as to the fulfilment of women and girls’ human rights. all in all, the promise of the sustainable development goals to leave no one behind cannot be fulfilled without putting an end to violence against women and girls. as long as women are traumatised, beaten, raped, trafficked, murdered or in other ways denied their bodily autonomy, and while girls are still harassed in school and online, exposed to female genital mutation and forced marriage, europe is not equal and not free from gender—based violence. i welcome the european commission’s intention to put forward an eu directive to combat gender—based violence and domestic violence before the end of 2021. ambitious and progressive legislation coupled with sufficient funding for anti—violence initiatives are urgently needed. europe must become a zero—tolerance zone for gender—based violence.
in writing. gender-based violence remains a global and europe-wide problem. i expressly regret the lack of progress in the ratification of the istanbul convention. i agree with the commission and i support the measures proposed, because the figures are alarming: one in three women in the eu has experienced physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. every week, about 50 women lose their lives to domestic violence by their partners. according to the united nations, 243 million women and girls were abused worldwide in 2019, but only 40 percent reported it. the situation has worsened during the covid-19 pandemic, as women have been forced to stay at home with their abusers.
author. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, it is high time to speak aloud about the paid mercenaries who kill across the globe. ‘death is our business and business is going well’. these words were patched on the arms of the 33 wagner group fighters arrested in belarus last year. russian mercenaries were on their way to another mission in africa. they were walking into a planned operation by the ukrainian intelligence for the crimes committed in donbas. at the very last moment, the head of zelensky’s administration failed the operation. unfortunately, justice was not served at that time. how well is the business going? if you were one of the fighters in donbas, you were awarded eur 10 000 per month. others kill for eur 300, but those are compensated for their low salaries by taking over the mineral resources of the host country, as russian mercenaries do in libya. besides being the mastermind of this industry and a close friend of president putin, mr prigozhin often honours his hired killers with multi-million dollar contracts. ukraine, syria, sudan, mozambique, libya, central african republic, venezuela: people of these and other countries have suffered greatly under the crimes committed by mercenaries. the eu should respond with the strictest measures. to do so, we need closer coordination among the eu and the nato allies. personal sanctions should be imposed on everyone upholding this inhuman industry. this way, we can show the wagner group and others that death is not a business: it is a crime against humanity and comes with grave consequences.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. since 2013, more than 50 french soldiers have died in mali. the country is not at peace, islamists are terrorizing the population. the malian government now wants the french troops to leave and wants to protect the population with the help of the russian wagner group. france is calling for further eu sanctions against russia. mali is the first test case for the new green foreign minister baerbock. will it remain true to its rhetoric of emancipation and self-determination for africa or will it willingly, in accordance with macron's wishes, replace french troops with eu and german troops? let's be honest with each other. in the suburbs of paris and marseille, french troops are more likely to be needed to protect life. just like german soldiers in duisburg or on the cologne dome.
madam president, if private military and security companies behave like warlords, it’s time we treated them like warlords. the original job of these companies is actually to protect people and buildings, but what some do is smuggle arms, rape, torture, kill and do the dirty jobs for other governments. in return, they are allowed to use and to loot countries’ natural resources. the wagner group is present in this kind of business in half of africa, rapidly expanding; new companies are mushrooming, and even private military and security companies (pmscs) employed by western governments have been involved in these kinds of crimes. so it’s time that we got this under control. we have to sanction – and very thoroughly sanction – these pmscs, but also those who contract them, for being involved in these kinds of human rights abuses. we should no longer support governments that rely on the services of pmscs that commit human rights violations. finally, we need to work on a very solid international framework that focuses on the accountability of these organisations and clearly restricts the legal tasks in which they are allowed to be involved.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what's the story today? the commission's own written replies to the questions were evaluated for their quality. you'll notice we like to express ourselves a little complicated here. but what is it? in every democracy in the world, it is the fundamental right of members of parliament to ask questions of the ruling party. we have no government here, thank god, but we have the all-powerful and enlightened commission. now it's actually normal in any democracy in the world for mps to be able to ask as many questions as they want. this is different . we have a limited number of questions. it is also normal that these questions should be answered in a timely manner. in the german bundestag, for example, it takes an average of one week to answer such a question. the commission has undertaken to reply within six weeks. six weeks - she's only dreaming; she's not really doing it. two thirds of the requests made take significantly longer. for example, last year, at the height of the first wave of the coronavirus, on may 15, i asked a question. i would have liked to have known the detailed figures on short-time working in europe. the answer came at the height of the second wave of corona, on september 14, and the answer was that the commission doesn't know that for sure. but i was also given good advice on how to be smart. but that is not the point of these requests, and that is not the way to deal with members of parliament. now the commission says: yes, with corona we have so much to do, we had a problem. i believe all that, but this problem is ancient. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already called members idiots for daring to ask questions in order to stress and make work and circumstances. you don't want all that. we must finally get back to a normal parliamentary procedure, as it works in every democracy in the world. this should also be possible in this european parliament at some point. it is absolutely - and i say this very clearly - disrespectful the way the commission treats us members of parliament.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. the congestion we have in the ports is a result of the corona lockdown. and it's natural that that's why there's a catch-up and an increased demand is driving the price. but it's also expected that this price will drop because this is a one-time follow-up to the lockdown. i am very glad that the commission is looking at these price increases, but i am afraid that it is taking this as a benchmark and as an opportunity to make fundamental policy changes now. sometimes it takes courage to endure such one-time effects, rather than turning a one-time emotion into a permanent crisis through rash actions or long-term strategies. this house and the commission tend to see the remedy for any problem that arises as a new policy. i have listened to the speeches of those who have spoken before me, and they are always very basic questions. the aim is to restructure society as a whole, just to clear up the congestion in ports. let us consider whether this congestion is not a very concrete consequence of the lockdown, and whether, to the extent that we manage to get away from the corona pandemic and have real mechanisms to end the emergency, then this congestion will also automatically decrease! and if there is a strategic idea for the future, it is that we should not permanently make our trade dependent on maritime trade routes, but that we should also look at continental trade routes. we should also consider whether we do not need land routes to the east, so that we are not unilaterally dependent on maritime trade routes. but this is not a question that has anything to do with the response to the coronavirus pandemic. it is a general question of our trade policy. we can discuss it now, but it will not change the current high prices. what we can take away is that ill-considered coronavirus policies are driving inflation in every sector. it might help us in the short term. what can also help us is that excessive bureaucracy and excessive political action often do the opposite of what they are supposed to do. the opposite of good is good. i respect that you're trying to respond to a concrete crisis with good intentions. i wish we'd responded well. and that means: let us work through this bottleneck that has arisen and then let us see how it goes on, after all that the economists tell us, when prices normalize and stabilize, when we stop interfering with the economic cycle with new political actions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have received information that at least 400 members and staff of the european parliament were infected with sars-cov-2 last november. this high number of infections is surprising given the strict hygiene measures in our house. i can only explain this as a result of the presence of the mini-plenum at the beginning of november. and now, because of the midterm elections, the next plenary session in strasbourg is to be held again as a compulsory event. mr. president, are you willing to take the risk of a massive infection again? you know that vaccines lose their effectiveness quickly and that even those who are vaccinated are contagious. in view of the risks involved, can you arrange a mandatory presence meeting? elections can be conducted remotely as a secret ballot, can't they? i urge you to look into this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not my dear friends! yesterday i was able to see a recent documentary by the russian director vitaly manski. the film depicts the daily life of an aged, sick mikhail gorbachev. old, sick, but still convinced that it was for the soviet union, that it was the right thing for russia to choose democracy and against violence to save the unity of the soviet union. at that time, i remember very well, there was little frustration and not so much sadness, but a lot of hope. the thinking came later. history is not black and white. what was legitimately liberation for many was for many others the loss of home. they were proud soviet citizens for decades, and then they were the last soviet citizens. we must accept this pain and this grief of decay as much as we celebrate the joy of many for liberation and democracy. yes, history is not black and white. but history is not a gray uniform. what is black must also be called black. and that's what memorial does every day, every week - black as the crimes against its own people in the name of the soviet union. what is white must also be called white. white were the opportunities and the hopes that were associated with it - hopes that with the end of the soviet union the beginning of democracy is. now, from the distance of thirty years, we see that the end was not the beginning. but this symbolic week here in the european parliament also shows that we continue to stand by the russian people and the many other citizens of the successor states of the soviet union. the soviet union is not over, it's still in the system. but our common dream remains the dream of the final end of the soviet union.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not today we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the fall of a totalitarian criminal regime, the socialist soviet union. when the ussr fell - i remember it - it was a day of great joy. liberal democracy, with its protection of individual human rights, was thought to have won. i'm afraid that was a mistake. on the contrary, liberal democracy is under threat today all over the world and, unfortunately, unfortunately, especially in europe. greece, austria, italy, and other countries are imposing fines and bans on people who refuse to get vaccinated. germany last week decided to make vaccination compulsory for nurses. now, remember, we're not talking about ebola or the black death. we are talking about a disease that many people who are infected with it don't even notice, and it has a mortality rate of no more than 0.15%. and we're talking about vaccines that many countries have suspended their use of right now because of massive side effects. but many european countries are still pushing for physical safety measures. but if physical integrity is not a limit for the state, what is it? almost 20 years ago, in frankfurt, the 11-year-old banker's son, jakob von metzler, was kidnapped and murdered. the kidnapper was quickly apprehended, but he would not reveal the whereabouts of his victim, who was believed to be still alive. in his desperation, the police chief threatened him with torture. in legal terms, this is exactly the same question as the question of vaccination, namely: should the state be allowed to intervene in the physical integrity of third parties for the protection of the general public or, in this case, for the life of an eleven-year-old child? if you answer yes, so-called rescue torture is also allowed to protect victims. this is the crucial question, even with the compulsory vaccination: is physical integrity still a limit for the state, or is it not? of course, you can advocate for intervention, that's your decision. but then let us never, ever talk about european values again. we're gonna get them in trouble for this. and then we are back to the ussr, this time in the european version. that it is no better is already seen in the defamation and exclusion of the unvaccinated as enemies of society and pests of the people. the german-jewish journalist henryk broder aptly observed: if you ask yourself how communism, how national socialism, were possible, the answer is: because your parents and grandparents were then what you are now.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. the famous austrian writer karl kraus once said: "an evil never flourishes better than when it is preceded by an ideal". it's the same here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are protected. the report first deals with a term such as cyber violence, which is not clear what it means. to illustrate, he refers to another rubber term, hate speech. and that's what it's all about: to ban unfavorable or unwelcome opinions, especially any criticism of gender or abortion. this is what the term cyber violence is primarily about. and mrs spurek, your remarks have more or less confirmed that. secondly, it is still not clear why this regulation should be transnational and cross-border, i.e. should be included in the catalogue of article 83 cases, where it is usually serious crime or drug trafficking. and when i asked mrs dalli in the committee how many cases there were of sicilians harassing women in denmark, for example, or people from portugal harassing women in lithuania or poland, mrs dalli could not give me an answer. i suppose you can't answer that either, because there are very few cases. i think the national rules are sufficient, the national criminal law and the national protection of women. and that is why the regulation proposed here is superfluous and highly dangerous for freedom of expression.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. not only does online violence against women cause a lot of suffering, but it is part of a political strategy to try to silence women. it is an attack on our democracy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon. but one particularly insidious form of sexual violence on the internet can be stopped tonight: the uploading of nude images to pornographic platforms against the victim's will, often with the victim's name and address. because tonight, we're voting in the imco committee on a compromise that will allow us to counter this unspeakable form of violence on the internet with the digital services act. and if you are not on the imco committee, please let your colleagues know. we still need the support of the epp. if tonight is not enough, then help us to organise a majority in the january plenary, to mobilise. because we already have it in our hands with the digital services act. and the women of europe expect us to act now.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we're talking about equality between men and women. the most important equality is first of all legal equality. and we have had them for 70 years - in germany, at any rate, but also in most other european countries. the same two arguments are then used to justify the alleged inequality of treatment between men and women. the first is that there are not enough women in management positions. yes, germany is an industrial nation, based mainly on industrial enterprises with a technical orientation. now let's look at the stem subjects, the science subjects. at present, only 30% of women in germany are women, and the number of women graduating is around 10%. this also means that only about 11% of women in germany work in such so-called stem subjects later on. and then later on, they often have to quit their jobs, because of pregnancy, whatever the reason. but that means that you can't really be surprised that there are very few women in senior management positions in large companies. but the more interesting statistic is this: for 40 years, selfemployed women, i.e. architects, lawyers, doctors, etc., have been earning on average 30% less than men in germany. that's an amazing statistic, because self-employed people have no influence. what this is about is not entirely clear. maybe they work less, maybe they're more interested in work-life balance. but that's the statistic. that should be noted. in other words, income inequality is not necessarily an expression of unequal treatment.
madam president, equality between men and women in the field of work is far from a reality. women from minority backgrounds, older women and women with disabilities may work in low-paid jobs and thus find themselves in precarious situations, which also very often forces them to give up motherhood for purely financial reasons. in addition, they face intersectional discrimination on the grounds of their ethnic origin, age and also disability. wage disparities are discrimination against equality between men and women. by adopting an intersectional approach, we could overcome these discriminations. to do this, equality policies must offer solutions that value women's work and also guarantee better working conditions, for example for those who want to become mothers but cannot by introducing full pay in all member states. it is up to member states to propose solutions that genuinely defend women's rights and that put in place wage policies that contribute to financial independence.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. the german medical association believes that one group in particular is pleased with the present proposal, namely the industry. she says the risk of outside influence would be increased by the proposal in the future. it is, of course, about lobbying, and this lobby, which is very, very active here in brussels, is very happy about what is happening here. she's happy about centralization. it has to take up considerably less money to operate in brussels. and i believe that health policy, whether at the national level or right here in brussels, depends primarily on one thing: trust. can we trust anything? can we trust the commission on this matter, whose president has exchanged a mass of chats with the pfizer ceo, all of which have now disappeared? can we really trust ursula von der leyen here, whose husband is the medical director of the company orgenesis in the united states? i think it's about trust. and whether there can be any real trust here, that is questionable to me.
that concludes this item. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 14 december 2021, and the final vote will take place on wednesday, 15 december 2021.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr seán kelly on the implementation of the directive on the energy performance of buildings (2021/2077 (ini)) (a9-0321/2021).
i would like to thank mr kelly very much for presenting this important report and thank him for his work. i would also like to thank the shadow reporters, even though we cannot hear all of them here today.
that concludes this item. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 14 december 2021, and the final vote will take place on wednesday, 15 december 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr sven mikser on the challenges and opportunities for multilateral arms control and disarmament systems with regard to weapons of mass destruction (2020/2001 (ini)) (a9-0324/2021).
that concludes this item. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 14 december 2021, and the final vote will take place on wednesday, 15 december 2021.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure).
that concludes this item.
the meeting is adjourned and will resume at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow, tuesday, december 14, 2021, with the announcement of the results of today's voting. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
madam president, a popular german comedy tv show is calling for the expropriation of facebook, and let’s face it, the digital markets act (dma) is not fulfilling that expectation. it does, however, contain important first steps in the right direction: data silos, enforceable do’s and don’ts for gatekeepers and interoperability. but it falls short of breaking up the cartel in the advertising business, largely controlled by two gatekeepers – google and facebook – who in the us are facing very serious allegations of teaming up together to shut out competitors, hamper innovation and increase prices for advertisers. advertising is so crucial because it is at the financial basis for our free press, for our democracy. if we don’t want our publishers to turn into mere content creators in 10 years’ time, then we need to provide a level playing field. that means two things: a ban on tracking advertising, because the gatekeepers will always have more data than our publishers, and breaking up the monopolistic structures in the industry. the dma is a very good start, but there’s more work to be done.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the digital markets act is a milestone in big tech regulation: long overdue and now finally here. dear margrethe vestager, dear thierry breton, i have to tell you that i have a very special friend. the commission proposal is clearly liberal in its character, and our position in parliament is along the same lines. with the dma, we are creating fairness for users and clear rules for companies, because responsibility is also measured by the size and influence of a company. the new rules finally put a stop to the exploitation of market power. fair competition is a win for all of us - for those who are big today and for those who could be big tomorrow, for consumers who will get more clarity and stronger rights. with today's vote, we're laying the foundation for fair competition online. by agreeing to this, we make it clear that the free internet goes hand in hand with our basic democratic values and market economy principles. thank you for your cooperation.
i have to say, madam president, they put their astronomical profits before people. that's how frances haugen, a facebook whistleblower, describes facebook's business practices. we find green: it's time to act. with the digital markets act, we have a chance to democratize the internet. the control of our online communications and information cannot be in the hands of a few silicon valley bosses. small and medium-sized enterprises must be given the same opportunities to compete in online commerce as google or amazon. big platforms exploit their market power and data monopolies. the eu must also enforce fair competition in online markets. the digital markets act can be a basis for this. the only way to put a stop to facebook, google and co. is through clear european legislation. we need interoperability for messengers as well. in the future, users of one messenger will be able to send messages to other messengers, just as they can now do with text messages or e-mails. we need stronger regulations so that tech companies don't buy up startups to get rid of them as competitors. and we need to make sure that the digital markets act not only looks good on paper, but can be enforced by the eu commission. this means that the eu commission needs sufficient staff to enforce the digital markets act. and that also means that we need parliamentary control rights so that we can also discuss and assess developments that are wrong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. they make our position clearer and should therefore be adopted.
mr president, some very few powerful tech platforms currently dictate the rules on the digital single market, and we all know the consequences. it is impossible to uninstall an app on your phone, although you want to use a different one, let’s say ‘maps’. you search online for a certain christmas present you want to give to a friend, and the first google search result leads you to google, or you want to use a messenger that satisfies your need for the protection of your personal data, but all your friends mostly use another service. the digital markets act will put an end to the dominance of a few big tech giants and give back true choice to the consumers. and not only consumers, but also alternative business models where small and medium sized companies will profit. i think today is a good day because we finally set democratic rules for the online world. i could have personally even gone a little bit further, but i think the dma is a very good step in the right direction, and i really want to also thank you, mr schwab, our rapporteur in the committee, all the shadow rapporteurs and all the rapporteurs of the opinion-giving committees.
the commission has already done so. i strongly believe that all businesses in the european single market should be able to compete online as freely and fairly as they do offline. but we know that's not the case online right now, and that's hurting consumers and businesses. therefore, we are creating a catalogue of prohibited market behaviour in the digital markets act to enable competition authorities to identify and address competition problems in digital markets more quickly. among other things, gatekeepers will no longer be able to give preferential treatment to their own products and services, they will no longer be able to easily merge data from different services, data portability will be facilitated, and more competition will be created in app stores. i think that is urgently needed. we are also doing something else: with this legislation, we are putting ourselves at the forefront of those around the world who will bring competition to the internet for everyone, for big and small, for consumers and businesses, for the medium-sized business. and i think that's a good thing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we have seen this before. a bully blackmails its weaker neighbours while the rest of the world watches. we have seen this in april, we have seen this countless times in the history of mankind, and history teaches us that appeasing a bully is a very dangerous strategy. it is immoral and counterproductive. as we speak, 100 000 russian troops are mobilised on the ukrainian border. their number is expected to rise dramatically. those who know mr putin know that the run-up to christmas is a particularly dangerous period. that’s why we need to remain vigilant and resolute. ukraine is not targeted because it is a danger, but because its people stand up for european values, because they dare to be free and because they want to decide their own fate. nothing terrifies the kremlin more than a free, democratic nation on its own borders. meanwhile, how do we react? some still suggest that nord stream 2 should continue. the main export of the kremlin is not gas, oil or arms, but chaos, as one russian ideologue has openly stated. by increasing our dependency on russia, we betray our allies and endanger the future of this continent. it is time for our foreign policy to show teeth and speak with bullies in a language they understand, the language of tough sanctions. punishment of russia must be unprecedented if it dares to start another war against ukraine. cut off russia from the swift system, scrap nord stream 2 and sanction putin and his entourage. more importantly, show the kremlin that bullying is counterproductive by advancing partnership with ukraine every time the kremlin tries to intimidate it. dear colleagues, let’s practice what we preach and show russia that, in the world of international law, might does not make right. stand up for ukraine.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when we talk about the problem of eastern ukraine, we should not forget that there is a settlement, namely the minsk agreement, called minsk ii. and the question for those who are calling for new sanctions against russia here is: do you accept this agreement or do you not accept it? even the new german foreign minister, whose course i think is wrong, says she is in favour of minsk ii. minsk ii has 13 points, you can read them. and it is currently the government and the parliament in kiev alone that are sabotaging at least four of these points, and they have been doing so since 2015. are you pressing kiev, which is economically dependent on us, to implement an agreement brokered and supported by france, germany and the united states? i've never heard of you. they'd rather give military aid. in that sense, you want peace? i'm all right. you should support the minsk agreements. this is rule-based foreign policy, but not the sanctions and war cries that we hear here sometimes. and the second thing that's going on is that you have to think, of course, what is the other person thinking? it's called empathy. russia has had historical experiences that are different from ours. if hitler and napoleon had started their campaigns on what is now the ukrainian-russian border, they would have won. and that is why russia will never allow a military alliance that is skeptical of it, even hostile to it, to stand on this border. so whoever takes ukraine into nato is provoking, whether we like it or not - i don't like it either - the russian attack. and now ask yourself if you are prepared to accept war for ukraine's nato membership. if you want to fight, fight. i'm going to campaign for the war to be over. and i'm prepared to accept that ukraine will not become a member of nato.
i have to say, madam president, i have prepared a speech, but i will not use it now, i will react to the circus that has taken place here. it was juggling, it was juggling with fake facts. the great defender of democracy mariani from our 'dear' group is talking about referendums in crimea. how democratic were the little green men and the russian mercenaries in the ukraine? the great peacemaker mariani speaks of the minsk agreement. i'm sorry, but the minsk agreement says that the heavy weaponry must be withdrawn. russia did not do this. it says to let the osce observers in. russia wouldn't let that happen. so please don't juggle fake facts here. the great internationalist mariani speaks about the language, the ukrainian language, which is persecuted. but what happens now in crimea with the crimean tatars under russian rule? and the anti-corruption activist mariani is talking about the corruption in kiev. he should look at putin's russia and talk about it. i don't want to talk about mr. krah's empathy at all. where's your empathy for the ukrainian people? i don't see them.
madam president, whether the aggression in ukraine remains below the threshold of military violence is all up to vladimir putin and his cronies. but if he decides to use military force, i say he has to know the cost will be sky-high. now, the added value of our european union is that we are extremely well positioned to communicate credibly such sky-high costs, also up front and as a deterrent, and i therefore call for the setting up of a ready-to-impose interdisciplinary set of countermeasures, economic sanctions, use agricultural certificates, but also migration visa. show russia’s elite what freezing assets would actually mean, blocking access to the european market, financial banking limitations, energy and trade instruments and so forth. si vis pacem, para bellum. he wants peace, prepare for battle, and for the european union in this moment means prepare to impose maximal costs in order to deter any stupid move towards new military escalation by russia.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we can still make a thousand speeches that will rightly criticize mr. putin, but let's think about our reaction not so much verbal (it is needed), but political. well, i think we should learn from the past, from what happened at the nato summit in bucharest in 2008, when the lack of unity of the west and the blocking of the road map for georgia by three countries led to russian intervention in that country a few months later. we must be united today at all costs. it's good that we vote every six months on sanctions against the russian federation. but it must be made clear that any attempt by certain countries to get along with russia is detrimental to the whole of the european union, and not just to countries which, like my country, poland, share a border with russia. i think we must be united, because this is the fundamental european value today. solidarity in the context of nord stream may sound strange, but we must be solidarity.
madam president, the escalation at the ukrainian border and in russian—occupied territories of ukraine is but the latest of a series of actions undertaken by the kremlin which seriously undermine peace and democracy in europe. it is indeed the biggest challenge to european security since the end of the cold war. dear colleagues, we can no longer afford to stand by and watch this crisis unfold. in doing so, we may sleepwalk into a potential conflict over which we will have no control. i welcome the current resolution of this house, and its consistent position. but what we need now is unity among the eu leaders as a cornerstone of any meaningful response. it is time for eu leaders to use the upcoming council meeting to set aside narrow interests and work, united with our allies, to address the current crisis. because united we have the leverage and the right tools to deter the kremlin from any further deterioration and destabilisation. dear colleagues, the current crisis is serious, but it is still not beyond our control. only united and resolute will we be able to send a clear message to the kremlin that we will use all our means to protect peace and security, and that we reject a return to spheres of influence and any attempts to undermine our democracies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what we are currently experiencing on the ukrainian border is an active threat of war from the russian government. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the countries of eastern europe, and the european union has been involved in the negotiations with the countries of eastern europe. ukraine could be attacked again at any time. in 2014, there was a shift of borders on the european continent. this is already endangering our peace and security infrastructure on the european continent. we must therefore find a diplomatic solution as quickly as possible, with all our strength and determination, together with our nato partners. we must now - as quickly as possible - establish diplomatic relations and channels of dialogue to solve this problem. it seems that the russian government wants to prevent ukraine from exercising its right to self-determination, perhaps to join nato or not. we do not need another spiral of sanctions, but now - very quickly - the greatest possible deterrence potential with economic and political means against the russian government.
six motions for resolutions were tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 december 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr norbert neuser, on behalf of the committee on development, on the new guidelines for eu humanitarian action (2021/2163 (ini)) (a9-0328/2021). i would remind members that there are no spontaneous speeches in any of the debates of this session and that no blue cards are accepted. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
i would like to thank you very much, mr neuser, for all the years you have spent in the european parliament and for all the work you have done.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is the largest donor of humanitarian aid, as has been said on several occasions. i would like to stress that humanitarian aid is an expression of european values. it is an expression of european values, because we show solidarity with people who, by chance, were not born in a prosperous society like ours, but on a continent where it is more difficult. it is an expression of our solidarity with people who also have a human dignity that we are trying to support. it is therefore important that, in view of the growing number - and it has just been said that we now have 274 million people in need of humanitarian aid - that we, in the face of these growing numbers, increase the financial resources that we as the european union make available on a sustained basis, in line with the needs. because only in this way can we really help the people who need our help and our solidarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it may surprise you to know that both my party and my group are in favour of humanitarian aid and development aid as self-help. so we differ more in the "how" than in the "whether" on this particular question. development aid can never be a vehicle for clientelism. but this report is a drum-fire of the zeitgeist vocabulary and a creative 'more' in 'broader than before'. it would be appropriate to ask whether money in afghan gender projects is really being spent in a meaningful way, rather than simply demanding an increase in development aid. instead of questioning whether development aid is not also based on mutual trust between donor and recipient countries and whether it would not therefore be appropriate to rely on cooperation in the field of returning, for example, illegal or criminally-inclined migrants, the implementation of the initiative is now called for in a general way. in the long run, this means introducing disasters and climate causes as additional vague grounds for asylum. ladies and gentlemen, this report is a well-being-washing of time. the real problems of humanitarian aid, namely aid money that does not reach the victims of disasters, excessive bureaucracy and money that is lost in the quagmire of aid organizations, are not addressed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. other the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to wish our rapporteur, mr lukas mandl, a very happy visit to austria. when we want peace and security in our house, we have to make sure that our doorstep and our inner yard are safe and secured. the western balkans is precisely that doorstep for many eu member states and the inner yard for the whole union. these six countries are the major transit route for money laundering, trafficking for drugs, firearms as well as human beings, which mostly involves girls who are trafficked for sexual exploitation. this has to stop, and we need a fundamentally different eu approach regarding organised crime. first, we need to be credible. the eu has to offer a significant increase in the capacities of the european border and coast guard agency (frontex) and enhance cooperation between the western balkan countries and the eu agency for law enforcement training (cepol), eurojust and the group of states against corruption (greco) to target transnational crime more effectively. the eu must lead and not only follow others in their actions. therefore, we need to make sure that those individuals who are on the us sanctions list will face sanctions in the eu, too. kosovo should become a fullyfledged member of interpol. without the crime and corruption reporting network (krik) investigative journalist in belgrade, we would not have known all the links between the ruling elites in serbia and montenegro and the criminal gangs, drug lords and armed traffickers. robust support for organisations, such as krik, will play an essential role in preventive and monitoring work and help to face an increasing number of strategic litigation against public participation (slapps) cases, which is of utmost importance. the region is a geopolitically relevant player for europe. it represents a crucial element in securing eu borders management, but also the fight against transnational crime and corruption. given the lack of clarity on frontex engagement, the greens want to abstain on this report. nevertheless, our commitment and our determination to reinforce the eu's pivotal role in the western balkans through the common fight against organised crime remain unquestioned.
mr president, before the eu imposes new requirements, it needs to deliver, too. that is how relations work. they require mutual understanding and respect. kosovo has been an independent country since 2008. it has since then been recognised by the united states. however, in the eu, certain member states have still not recognised kosovo for petty, nationalistic reasons. i fully agree with the rapporteur. depriving western balkan countries of an eu perspective will worsen the situation concerning organised crime. it gives russia and china the opportunity to further destabilise the region. the situation in the western balkan poses a big and urgent threat to the stability of europe. it can cause a new refugee crisis and even war. i therefore call on the european commission and european council to act responsibly and decisively, and take action now and start with the eu accession of western balkan states.
the european union estimates that in 2019 criminal revenues in the main markets amounted to 1% of gdp and in the european union to eur 139 billion. the fight against organised crime is part of the western balkan countries' accession process to the european union. what i would point out as a big problem is the confluence of political bodies, the crime milieu, misinformation on platforms and that's why we need to help independent media and investigative journalists. we want real and committed operational cooperation with european agencies that can support their efforts in the fight against organised crime. it is also important for the european union to continue to provide financial incentives to these countries on their european path to tackle the problem of organised crime. let us not forget that organized crime does not only profit from the trade in drugs and weapons, but also from human life. that is a fact we must always bear in mind. organized crime, on the other hand, is also a threat to the democratic progress of the western balkan countries. on the other hand, it's also a first-rate security issue. we must take special care of him. as regards my country, croatia, as a country with contacts with non-eu countries, the possibility of cross-border crime is a particular focus of croatian police and judicial institutions. so we have to, ladies and gentlemen, give the western balkan countries, in addition to that financial support, financial support, financial support in the implementation of reforms. croatia has done that, but we need to be clearer about supporting the citizens of the european union, of which the croatian citizens are a constituent people in bosnia and herzegovina, for example, and they are citizens of the european union.
mr president, organised crime and corruption are everywhere most harmful for the vast majority of ordinary citizens and most profitable for those elites who refuse to take action. projects like the recent citizens’ assembly on corruption in montenegro, upon the initiative of this house, are good, but also the efforts of leaders who took responsibility instead of refusing to take action, like in kosovo, albania and north macedonia, should be recognised with steps forward. backsliding on media freedom and the rule of law, which are so crucial to fight organised crime and corruption, like in serbia, raises concern. organised crime does not know borders. any delay or backsliding on necessary reforms is also our problem. i welcome the work of the rapporteur, mr mandl, and the shadows. it should serve as a signal to our fellow europeans to show where we stand: on their side. impunity must end and citizens should be assured that they can trust their institutions.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, it’s been said many times in this discussion, and it’s true: fighting organised crime is high on our agenda with the western balkans. earlier this month my colleague, commissioner johansson, discussed the topics with the ministers for the interior of the region at the annual justice and home affairs ministerial. cooperation was considered crucial when it comes to dismantling organised crime groups and combating the trafficking of illicit weapons and drugs, as well as trafficking in human beings. all western balkan partners have shown commitment in this area, and this is fundamental on the eu path. it’s also important that they participate in the activities of the european multidisciplinary platform against criminal threats (empact), and their participation should be further strengthened in the empact cycle that is foreseen for 2022 to 2025. the eu justice and home affairs agencies as well are committed to work with the region. the new cycle of empact will also facilitate joint operations with the western balkan partners. so the elements are all there to improve our joint fight against organised crime in that region, and also it needs corresponding commitments from the region itself. we agree with the assessment that criminal justice systems need to be strengthened in the western balkans, that their independence and their professionalism should be enhanced, and we are working closely with all western balkan partners to ensure this. i wish to conclude by thanking again the rapporteur for his report and all the members for the discussion today.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. diamonds have something special, something mysterious. and diamonds have made it famous in movies. i remember james bond, diamonds are forever, or the famous film with leonardo dicaprio, blood diamond. and i think that's exactly what this discussion is about, the two sides of this gem, the diamond. on the one hand, it is desirable, and on the other hand, it is associated with exploitation, coercion and environmental destruction. and i think it's worth reflecting on the fact that these diamonds have something to do with the colonial history of europe. by 1880, there were a few diamonds, but that wasn't a big story. and then with the industrial exploitation in the 1880s, by the de beers company, that's exactly what the run on diamonds was, the unrestrained exploitation in african countries. two thirds of all diamonds come from the african countries of angola, côte d'ivoire, zimbabwe and, of course, south africa. and this company de beers has managed quite well to manage supply and demand well so that the price has remained quite high. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the diamond industry is not left to its own devices. in 2003, the kimberley process was launched with a definition of blood diamonds, that is, diamonds that support violent conflict, rebellion, coup attempts, and these diamonds are then also to be removed from the market. this has been done with the central african republic, but with a very hollow procedure. diamonds were also exported from the central african republic during the embargo. but that means that the kimberley process does not take into account the issues of exploitation and environmental degradation. and if you buy diamonds and give them away for christmas, you don't know if it involves child labour, if it involves environmental destruction. and that is why i believe that what we have started with the kimberley process is not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. firstly, how do you see the certification process documents issued by the partners themselves? is that enough to ensure that a reasonable process is being monitored here? there are hardly any inspections, let alone by independent institutions. secondly, what about cooperation with partner countries, when we know that in the kimberley process there is only a unanimous decision and many unacceptable behaviours are not sanctioned at all? if you look at zimbabwe or venezuela? are you satisfied with the conduct of the partners in this kimberley trial? third, isn't it time to change the definition to include not just rebellion, but human rights in general and environmental protection? fourthly, what is the relationship between the kimberley process and our legislation? it would be nice if this was included in the conflict minerals. but above all, it needs to be in the due diligence legislation so that we have a duty of care here as well throughout the supply chain. and fifth, we should also use new technologies like blockchain to have a truly digital imprint for the diamond, not just a piece of paper that can be easily forged. we need a digital transaction document so that at the end of the day, we can really say, diamonds should be human rights' best friend.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to have this important debate as we are taking stock of the kimberley process, a plenary meeting that took place in november, and looking ahead to the year 2022. the eu has played a very active role in the past years to ensure the kimberley process remains fit for purpose. we will, of course, continue to do so next year when botswana will hold the chairmanship of the kimberley process. the eu’s persistent efforts aim to ensure that the kimberley process continues to play an important role in stemming the flow of conflict diamonds and in contributing positively to the lives of the communities that depend on the trade in diamonds. the definition of conflict diamonds has been one of the most sensitive aspects of the reform cycle since 2017. the eu has led efforts in the past years to broaden the definition to ensure that the kimberley process remains relevant for the future. despite the urgency to reform and the active engagement from many kimberley process participants, civil society and industry, unfortunately the necessary consensus on a new definition could not be found at the last plenary held on 8-12 november this year. the kimberley process plenary, however, welcomed the extensive work undertaken and also led by the eu as regards the definition of conflict diamonds and invited the incoming and future kimberley process chairs, all kimberley process participants and observers, to take these efforts forward. the kimberley process plenary also welcomed a non-binding declaration for a responsible diamond sourcing framework intended to promote key principles in the area of human rights, labour rights, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism and responsible diamond mining as best practices for the global diamond industry. furthermore, the commission may also explore complementary avenues to enhance responsible diamond sourcing in the context of its upcoming initiatives. in support of its work in the kimberley process, the commission has been funding, through the former instrument contributing to stability and peace, a number of projects aimed at ensuring better governance in the diamond sector, the development of alternative livelihoods and addressing unemployment and poverty. building on this work, the commission intends to explore under global europe, relevant thematic programme options to continue eu support to regional approaches through the mano river union and to the central african republic, and in parallel as indicated in the commission work programme, the commission has launched the preparation of an initiative on sustainable corporate governance to foster long-term, sustainable and responsible corporate behaviour.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the kimberley process certification scheme (kpcs) is a stakeholder-driven process based on consensus, intended to effect positive change in third countries. the kpcs needs to be adapted to the evolving nature of conflicts that affect the trade in diamonds. the reform process should tackle three key elements: first, the scope and definition of conflict diamonds; second, the strength and effectiveness of implementation and enforcement with a view to differentiating between small-scale and large-scale operations; third, the streamlining of the tripartite nature of the kpcs with better coordination and information-sharing between governments, industry and civil society. for the epp group, feasibility is key. we want to have a rules-based interaction at the global level with norms that are properly implementable and enforceable. following the experience of the conflict minerals due diligence regulation, we have to uphold and enhance the cross-stakeholder approach. both industry and civil society need to be our allies in improving the effectiveness of the kpcs, effecting real positive change on the ground. and we, as the epp group, are of course particularly attentive to the specific needs of smes, because small and medium-sized enterprises are bearing the regulatory costs and burden of new regulations. finally, as rapporteur on the recast file concerning the kimberley process implementing regulation, i take this opportunity to call on the commission to consider the european parliament’s proposed solution to the legal deadlock of the dossier on the recast of the kimberley process.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the mining of diamonds is still too often linked to the financing of rebel groups and civil wars in africa. the kimberley process certification scheme was established in 2003 to stop that trade in conflict diamonds. and with success, because today less than 1% of the rough diamond trade is considered conflict diamond. that is - we have to say this - a major achievement. however, the resolution also very rightly speaks, as mentioned, of the shortcomings of the kimberley process and the absolute improvements that are needed. the problem of the diamonds has been greatly reduced, but it is certainly not yet completely solved. first of all, and it has been mentioned, the scope must be extended. the current definition is too narrow. only rough diamonds used by rebels to finance their fight against legitimate governments are considered conflict diamonds. all human rights violations, whether committed by rebels, by the military, by mine supervisors or by governments, should be caught. so forced labor and child labor. secondly, improvements are needed in the area of independent monitoring and enforcement. a commitment to digitisation can and will provide a solution. and ngos are an essential partner in the kimberley process. they need better support. there is also a real danger of the diamond trade being shifted to a hub like dubai, which is not as strict with the regulations. this creates a huge hole, a loophole, in the international system and it must be countered. however, and this is of course the whole problem in the multilateral system, consensus is needed and those 56 members do not all see the same need for fundamental reforms. the pressure to reform is lacking today and therefore the lack of the great success story that the process could be. so reforms are not easy and i count on the commission to continue its efforts to make improvements possible. this brings me to what the eu itself could do, because we cannot hide behind this unanimity. there are things that we can put in motion ourselves, and that's the essence of the due diligence story, of taking responsibility in the diamond supply chain and not turning a blind eye to human rights violations. consumers are demanding that today. they want to know that a diamond is not bloodstained, that it is ethical, that it is not linked to environmental disasters, and that it is not the product of forced or child labor. regardless of who did it, rebels or others, in this whole production process from mining to polishing, grinding and assembly, those rights must be guaranteed. a duty of care throughout that supply chain should ensure that human rights violations are a thing of the past. i cannot stress enough that a broad due diligence proposal must therefore be put forward, and quickly. it is unacceptable that it has been postponed again, commissioner, and i would urge you to look at it. apparently, there's a thing called a regular scrutiny board that's stopped that. i actually wonder where the democracy is in this story. so i expect openness from the european commission and i expect a proposal very soon. the same applies, because it is also linked, to a proposal on 'forced labour'. the committee on international trade cannot stress enough that we must also have a system of banning products on our market around 'forced labour'. this will strengthen the kimberley process and the collection of conflict diamonds.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not bernd lange reminded us of this musical classic with "diamonds are a girl's best friend", as marilyn monroe once sang, and he came to the conclusion: "diamonds should be human rights' best friend". unfortunately, the current saying is that 'diamonds are a criminal's best friend'. the kimberley process was a major success in curbing the trade in blood diamonds. the trade in illegally mined diamonds that have financed conflicts or wars has been significantly curtailed. however, it is precisely these diamonds, these conflict diamonds, that fall within the definition of the kimberley process. serious human rights violations like violence, rape or child labour can still be embedded in these diamonds, in these diamonds that we wear on our hands or around our necks. therefore, consumers rightly expect that their jewellery is free from child labour or exploitation. but this requires transparency in the supply chain and traceability from the mine to the market from the individual rough diamond to the finished piece of jewellery. there are already important initiatives and certificates for this from responsible players in the industry. but overall we need a clearer legal framework. i therefore also expect the commission to make concrete proposals on how it intends to develop the kimberley process further and how it intends to implement it in practice - especially in line with the proposed supply chain act. we also need to discuss whether diamonds should be included in the conflict minerals regulation. the review is already due in 2023. a recording is obvious. the kimberley trial was a great success. it's time to expand it, so we can be sure that the engagement ring as a sign of our love, or the earrings that we wear every day and want to pass on to our daughters one day, is a sign of connection and not a reminder of exploitation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the holiday season is just around the corner, and many of you are probably thinking about what to give to your loved ones as presents. and you might think about shiny diamonds, but some of those shimmery diamonds bear a dirty secret. they are blood diamonds, and they are extracted under unbearable conditions. the good news is, with the kimberley process, the international community has created a tool to fight blood diamonds. the bad news is that the system is far from perfect. first of all – and many colleagues have mentioned this today – it does not guarantee that the diamonds sold in the eu are fully ethical because they might still be linked to human rights violations or environmental damage. the diamond mining sector often displaces communities. it often pollutes the rivers people use for their livelihoods. secondly, the kimberley process only applies to rough diamonds, which leaves cut and polished diamonds completely unaddressed. we need to make sure that the kimberley process applies to all diamonds and that it acts against all human rights risks, not just those which are related to conflict and rebel movements. as you said, the eu cannot of course change the kimberley process on its own. it requires consensus amongst all participating states. but what the eu can do is act alone whenever the kimberley process leaves gaps. as a major centre for diamond trade, we can introduce laws or amend existing laws such as the kimberley regulation or the conflict minerals regulation, to make sure that diamond sourcing is in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights. this is exactly what this strong resolution is asking, and i sincerely hope that the commission will listen to our demands and finally make diamonds ethical.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the kimberley process is certainly a process of success, as can be seen by now. we now have 85 countries committed to this and to helping to ensure that diamonds are bloodless and mined in a humane way in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have already discussed other points, such as how the process can be extended. and i just want to make a plea that we look at other products, other raw materials. when forbes magazine writes about blood batteries cobalt and the congo in 2018, we have a similar problem there. we have, of course, funding in the cobalt sector, on the one hand, from local warlords, we have a child labour problem, and we also have forced labour. this means that we have a limited resource in the region, which is also largely sourced from the congo. the kimberley process actually started in the congo, and that's how it originally started. we have a similar problem, and we have a finite resource. i would therefore like to make a plea that if we are now taking care of the kimberley process and making sure that the kimberley process really works, then we should also look at where we can apply this recipe of success to other raw materials.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as european conservatives, we believe national sovereignty resides in the people. in that respect, we believe the natural resources of a country are the sovereign property of its people, and they are not for others to exploit. in the past, this has led to the disruption of the african continent through the rough diamond market. the trade in these conflict diamonds, or ‘blood diamonds’, has funded civil war, illegitimate political aims, and forced labour, also among children. since the beginning of the 2000s, an international cooperation of over 80 countries called the ‘kimberley process certification scheme’ has been in place to keep the global market free from these blood diamonds. however, we are not there yet. the kimberley process is narrow, with only one country under embargo. but even this embargo does not stop these blood diamonds from illegally crossing the borders and being sold in european stores. therefore, we support a revision of the current definition of conflict diamonds in order to include the social and environmental conflict-related dimensions of diamond production. we underline the positive role for the private sector in cooperation with the public one. hence, we welcome the commitment by the world diamond council to the kimberley process. job creation and income from mining communities is dependent on a stable, transparent and responsible supply chain.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already done so. we're talking about rough diamonds, better and more specifically blood diamonds. the trade in smuggled, unlicensed rough diamonds is still a key driver of murderous gangs in the central african republic, cameroon and northern nigeria, including boko haram. how much blood is on these diamonds that are being given away this year in europe and around the world at christmas? we have to face it: the kimberley process, which was supposed to prevent that, is not working well. outside south africa, only a fraction of the diamonds in circulation are mined. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the commission says that this is not possible because certain governments are shutting down, then i am calling for the eu to have its own import legislation. add the diamonds to the conflict minerals ordinance. we must finally stop buying these diamonds, which are mined by the most brutal exploitation. whether raw or cut: no stone without an authenticated designation of origin may be used in european jewellery in the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how long are we going to tolerate the trade in blood diamonds? all citizens know the horrors behind diamond mining and all know that this very rich trade has financed oppression and conflict. perhaps some people also know that 20 years ago the international community committed itself to stopping the trade in blood diamonds through initiatives such as the kimberley process, yet almost no one knows that today the international definition of blood diamonds covers only precious stones which directly finance wars, but does not apply to human rights violations, massive environmental damage, labour exploitation and especially child labour, which is so common in the mines of certain countries. after almost 20 years, we believe that this definition should be extended and that the commission should make an international commitment to do so. new technologies, especially blockchain, allow for a huge improvement in traceability and the fight against these abuses. it's time to clean up the diamond trade once and for all.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this debate. i would like to underline our strong commitment to engage in the kimberley process by leading the debate on crucial topics such as the definition of conflict diamonds, and many of you actually referred to that. the eu remains fully engaged in efforts to enhance the effectiveness of the kimberley process and also to continue the debate, launched in 2017, to keep pace with, and aim to address, the challenges in the global diamond supply chains and provide assurance that diamonds are not tainted by violence or abuses. we remain committed to an inclusive and constructive approach with all participants – so also civil society and industry – and we are looking for win-win solutions that strengthen and further enhance the kimberley process. we look forward to continue discussing with this house on this topic in the future as well.
member of the commission. – mr president, the nutrition for growth summit in japan was the culmination of the nutrition for growth year of action. earlier this year, the commission took part in the food systems pre-summit in rome, and also in the food systems summit in new york. on these occasions, the eu showed leadership and commitment to pave the way for a future where there is no place for hunger or malnutrition. we have called for an ambitious transformation of food systems worldwide, and we are leading the way with the green deal’s farm to fork strategy. at the nutrition for growth summit last week, i highlighted the essential role of nutrition in a healthy and productive life, especially for women and children. the first 1 000 days of a person’s life are very critical. they can unlock the potential of individuals and, in turn, of entire societies. the summit addressed the three drivers of malnutrition: poor health systems, poor food systems and fragility. the summit allowed the international community to come together to take action on nutrition, and i am happy to say that we delivered. ‘team europe’ – so, the european union together with our member states – pledged more than eur 4.3 billion. i announced the eu pledge of at least eur 2.5 billion to support nutrition efforts until 2024. we intend to address malnutrition holistically, including by supporting sustainable and resilient food systems, and by addressing the needs of the most vulnerable people, particularly in humanitarian crises. this is crucial; 45% of deaths among children under five result from malnutrition, and malnutrition costs the global economy eur 3.1 trillion every year. between 2014 and 2020, the eu spent eur 4.3 billion on nutrition-related action. this was actually eur 800 million more than we pledged in 2013. today, our nutrition initiatives support 42 countries around the world. our approach is multisectoral and we definitely see the results. we estimate that from 2014 until 2025, eu efforts will have helped avoid stunting in 4.2 million children. however, child stunting remains a real challenge. it goes without saying that covid-19 has increased hunger and malnutrition all around the world. we need to act now to ensure that everyone can put adequate food on the table. i look forward to hearing your insights and recommendations on this topic.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. health, nutrition and resilience these three commitments were at the heart of the global summit nutrition for growth held in japan on 7 and 8 december. that's a good one. because these are at the heart of economic and social development in every country. they are the key to eradicating poverty, hunger and malnutrition. more than 140 million children suffer from stunted growth and malnutrition. malnutrition is the cause of nearly half of all deaths among children under five years of age. these numbers are devastating. covid-19 is also gripping us. our food security is threatened worldwide. the year of action also provided important impetus in tokyo for the final decade of the sustainable development goals: more investment in food services, health, ensuring the livelihoods of producers, and tackling malnutrition in fragile and conflict-affected areas. it's our chance to engage more and share a common vision for 2030. no one is to be left behind. women and children in particular need to have safe access to a healthy and balanced diet. only then can they reach their full potential in life. now is the time to act, said japan's prime minister fumio kishida. and rightly so, for japan is setting a good example. the healthiest children in the world live in japan. the school pays attention to balanced food. japanese students are learning to appreciate, pick and harvest, whether it's local produce or school food. the important thing is that the self-harvest always comes on the plate or on the school table. this is what the future looks like, or what the future can look like.
mr president, at the japan summit, governments committed themselves to ending food insecurity and hunger by 2030. the european union has taken a positive stance in favour of such an objective. we hope that its commitment will be followed by a financial commitment for 2024-2027 and that the european action plan, which expires in 2025, will be revised in this light. the number of people who suffer from hunger on a daily basis is alarming: it rose to 822 million in 2020, most of them children, not counting those suffering from the effects of the pandemic. in his speech to parliament today, the president of ghana stressed, and i quote, that 'instead of investing money to stop migrants from africa coming to europe, these resources would be better used to support the african economy in order to provide economic opportunities'. it is time to address this issue in depth at the europe-africa summit in february 2022, especially as the african union is dedicating 2022 to the theme of nutrition.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am pleased to be here in this house today to speak on a subject that is very, very close to my heart and, i think, to the hearts of most of those in this room. and i am also glad, dear nicolas, that you are here today to join us in our debate, because this is an important signal from the commission. we all know that we are really living in a time of quite a change right now. and we're seeing that in many areas of work, digitization is advancing, automation is replacing steps and jobs, and artificial intelligence is increasingly being used, including in the awarding and evaluation of work. the list could be greatly expanded here. at the same time, we have agreed on a green deal, and the paris agreement really sets us big goals. and this, as with digitization, is associated with enormous transformations. and it is also true that they are causing concern and anxiety in certain regions and also in certain sectors, because we know that these transformations affect millions of people. we have also talked a lot in the past few months, especially in connection with the future conference, about democracy - how important it is that we involve and involve people in actually shaping solutions and shaping their own future. and this, of course, also applies to the world of work. and that is why it is so important, as the report says, that we give workers a voice, that we involve them in decision-making, and that is - i want to stress this again - part of the dna of the social market economy and therefore also of the dna of social europe. and there are good examples in europe that both sides, capital and labour, benefit from companies being better off when they engage employees early and appropriately. i had the opportunity last week, for example, to speak to the european works council of unilever. the company recently signed a european framework agreement on the future of work with the euro-working group. and remarkably, there are two things that i want to highlight here: one is that this agreement reiterates that the pursuit of pure profit, without regard for the employees, creates businesses that are not sustainable. and what this agreement does further is that it really provides concrete plans for the continuing training of employees with retraining, with continuing training, with individual entitlement also to counselling, and that is where we have digital disruptions, where new technologies are being used. and that gives employees a sense of security in the change and the opportunity to be part of the change. and so it's worth looking at -- and there are many studies that show this -- that companies are more sustainable and better at coping with crises when they involve their employees. they also train more. in the case of women's employment, too, you can see that there is more equal pay for equal work or work of equal value than in other companies. and that's why it's important that we empower that voice, and that's where this report starts. we therefore call on the commission, in the face of these truly massive challenges, to adopt a horizontal approach and to present a european framework directive on participation, on the rights of workers to participate in decision-making, but also to revise the euro works council directive and on participation in the framework of the european company. we need minimum standards in all areas that cannot be undermined, whether you restructure your company, change your form of company or move your headquarters to another country. we want to enable workers to be active participants in these transitions and not just the object of these changes. we also want to make companies more sustainable. and i therefore ask for broad support for this report, to really send a strong signal to the commission to come forward with proposals during this parliamentary term. and i would also like to thank the shadow reporters from the bottom of my heart for their constructive work. we have negotiated very hard on this matter, but we have found compromises on everything, and so it is good that the committee has also supported this report with a large majority. and i think the millions of workers that we have here in europe are waiting for a signal that we say: yes, we will strengthen workers' rights, we will strengthen participation. and so together we will navigate this change, this transformation, and make sure that in the end, no one is left behind, and that this is not just a hollow phrase, but that we create the tools and the processes for this, and where they are, we strengthen and improve them. in that sense, thank you very much.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. today, it is about more democracy in the workplace - a subject that is close to my heart. so, i have been part of the decision-making process in my company for over 30 years - my entire working life since my first year of apprenticeship. and, mrs schmit, i must commend your speech very highly, because everything you said about participation, i can endorse one by one. i do not need to go into the merits of participation in the decisionmaking process in my speech. thank you for every word. what you forgot: the codecision is based on the workers' constitutional act - a very, very good law. i have been wishing for many years that some, or indeed all, european countries would have adopted this german model of participation. unfortunately, most of them didn't, or there wouldn't be so much trouble here. you are talking to many works councils - i am talking to many works councils, recently to works councils of krupp, rwe, continental and most recently to the krombacher brewery. and they have worries. they're worried about the 11 million jobs that will soon be lost to the green deal. when they talk about sustainability, they mean the sustainability of their jobs. what is your report really about? is this really about more participation? well, i read something else. it says: 'employee participation' will, among other things, 'support the transition to a carbon-neutral, climate-neutral, resource-efficient [...] economy and gender equality'. the commission has also been very active in the fight against unemployment. but that has nothing to do with co-determination. this is politics and this is ideology. and politics has no place in business. we're not in cuba, and we're not going to stay here. we are here in europe, we are free and we will not be influenced. i do not want the workers of europe to be influenced by ideological theses. freedom must be the priority. we need a policy for prosperity, for sustainability. we really need this. but we need safe workplaces. i don't want to see a single one of those 11 million jobs lost. and again, we're not here in cuba, and we're not going to stay here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by mr schmit. social justice is the glue that holds together a society, a business, a european union. and if that doesn't exist, if that tar gets dissolved, then we have a democracy problem. democracy is participation, democracy is co-determination. then i understand processes, processes, decisions, so what are they doing up there in brussels or in my local parliament? if processes are understandable, if i am involved from the beginning, whether as a trainee, whether as a long-term employee, then i can be of value to my company, to society. participation is an integral part of this. when we have diverse businesses, people with diverse histories and backgrounds, then a society can not only become strong, be strong, but also be healthy. because life doesn't end when you leave the office, but there is life after office hours or after working hours. i am therefore very pleased to be able to conclude this report. thank you, dear gabriele and dear shadow rapporteurs, for this important addition, and we hope that it will be voted on tomorrow by a large majority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. mr guido reil of the afd, the far-right party in germany, always likes to play the role of a worker leader in germany. but here, where the issue is about participation rights and the strengthening of trade unions, he opposes it. i think it's a mockery, and that needs to be worked out clearly. the german workers' movement was the movement that made it possible, for example, for a strong participation in the decision-making process in germany. but this strong participation in germany, commissioner schmit, can be circumvented, for example, by european law, and that is indeed a problem. the eu's single market guarantees freedom for businesses and capital. it guarantees the interests of capital, while the rights of workers are treated as secondary. this must change, and this report is very important for that. it is clear that eu company law is being misused to circumvent the co-determination of employee representation. how's that? it's very simple. the companies are being converted into european companies and the representation of employees on supervisory boards has been reduced or eliminated. there are countless companies that do this in germany. deutsche wohnen, adac, tom tailor, zalando, leg and rentag are just a few examples of 58 european companies that are doing just that and making participation impossible for 236 000 employees in germany. no, democracy is also part of the workplace!
mr president, dear minister, dear colleagues, i think there’s one country that was extremely successful when it comes to addressing some of the challenges related to corona, and that is south africa, where the scientists made a great job in sequencing the new variant, omicron. and there’s one country that was extremely transparent in this pandemic. that is south africa, because it let the world know immediately about the new variant. and now the economies of south african countries are down again, after a careful recovery because the travel bans that have been introduced have hit the countries hard. yes, we need to fight the spread of the new variant. yes, we need to make sure that eu citizens are protected from a new wave. but the eu needs to put in place proportionate measures instead of punishing the most transparent and co-operative countries. the eu needs to consult before we take decisions like travel bans, and also apply no stricter measures to certain countries just because they lie on the african continent. and last but not least, we finally need global vaccination justice and therefore finally an eu position in favour of the trips waiver.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. before christmas, my wife and i receive a large number of cards from our children. this year, though, it's got a whole different set of things on it, not the doll kitchen, not the pocket knife, not the climbing gear. no, the children wish they could go back to school without masks, that they don't have to get vaccinated, that they can celebrate christmas with their grandparents again. it breaks my heart that i cannot fulfill these wishes of my children. but we can do that if we finally turn around from this crazy crisis model of fear and panic. i hope that we can draw plausible and workable conclusions from the figures and facts. for example, comparing the mortality rate of 0.23% for covid-19 with the mortality rate of 30% for smallpox, we can see that mandatory vaccination for corona is completely disproportionate, especially since vaccines cannot produce sterile immunity. let us give our children what they want and put an end to the division of society. i wish all of us, at this time, a blessed and joyous celebration of the birth of our savior jesus christ.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs von der leyen is standing here talking about what appear to be hybrid threats, but she means people on the run. but it is silent about the real dangers facing the people of the european union. with the lack of health care, with social disruption and the ever-widening gap between rich and poor. she speaks tactfully against supposed geopolitical competitors, but is silent when it comes to big pharma and their boundless profit interests. on the contrary, it protects them by not calling for and advocating the grant of patents. we keep talking about the pandemic, about new variants of the virus. this is the booster shot we're talking about. in africa, only 7% of the population is vaccinated. we all know that. if we want to fight a global pandemic, we have to tackle it globally. and then it's not enough to donate a few doses of vaccine to africa. no, we must finally make patents free so that the security and freedom of the people are protected and not always just the security and freedom of big capital.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. not everything the eu has done in relation to the covid-19 crisis has been perfect. i know this from my work as a doctor, where i was also the day before yesterday or last monday as a vaccination doctor. i am not criticizing the eu here because i do not want joint procurement, but quite the contrary: we must do better here. we need more joint procurement in the future. despite the criticism, the approach of joint vaccine procurement was the right one. we don't have a problem with patents, by the way. we have the problem that mrna vaccines can't be made in the garage, and that's why the release of patents doesn't help. we have multiple vaccine manufacturers, different mechanisms of action, and that's what's working for us now. because triple vaccination with mrna vaccines also appears to prevent at least a complete immune escape in omicron. we should be grateful for that. europe as a whole has gained confidence. the ecdc and ema in particular have shown that they can. and unlike some of the players in the nation states, who have been uncertain. and in some places, it is certain that the eu will have more powers in the area of health. not a little europe everywhere, but a strong europe in the right places!
in writing. i share the position of our commission president von der leyen that vaccination remains the most powerful and promising weapon against the pandemic. in addition, additional efforts are needed to overcome vaccine scepticism and increase the number of people vaccinated in europe and worldwide. one important measure is to counter the growing disinformation in europe through greater transparency and science-based communication.
the commission has already done so. let's be honest with each other. with these guidelines for inclusive language, we have made ourselves the laughing stock of the entire world. the commission is clearly pursuing an unnatural and un-european policy if it wants to eliminate all references to our christian-jewish heritage. this obsession with inclusive language is attacking every aspect of our national culture and society. don't you see? there is clearly a war being waged here against our christian-jewish identity, not only against our christian roots - and i am very grateful to mr weber for his commitment to the christian faith - but above all against traditional family values and free choice within the family. women are forced to pursue careers rather than start a family. what is wrong with a woman's choosing to have several children and to care for her family? is that not the most important and responsible job a person can have? the european treaties are quite clear on this point: the eu is based on the traditions of the member states. we should therefore respect our traditional identity in word and deed. the commission is putting this fundamental principle at risk with the thank godwithdrawn guidelines. it is not poland or hungary, but the european union, with its crusade against our traditions, our culture and christianity, that is most seriously violating our fundamental rights, including freedom of religion and conscience. i wish you a blessed and happy birthday.
in writing. i'm used to some of you, but you still manage to surprise me. when you read your title, "guidelines for non-discriminatory speech", you don't think anything of it. we've gotten used to way too much already: political correctness, gender, cancel culture -- all unpleasant, but not really surprising. but then: christmas is too christian and to mention it would traumatize the non-christian part of the population. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the please? please? mary and joseph did not go either. it's too biblical. instead, malika and julio. - what? it is not a guideline, as you claim, nor is it a regulatory rage, as we are used to suffering, but it has a new quality. this is an attack on our cultural identity. they want to erase our cultural identity. you don't care about diversity at all. what you want is gray unity match. we are supposed to become genderless, familyless, identityless mass human beings who no longer know what home, roots, identity and community are. interchangeable, faceless beings who have forgotten what it means to be human. this is treacherous. that's mean. it's communist. not with me!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i also want to start on a positive note because i think we have achieved a lot when we look at this year. i think there was a lot of work done, both at member state level and by the commission, but also obviously within this parliament, trying to hold you all accountable in this work. if we think about the adoption of the rrf regulation, the preparation and also approval of some of the plans, at least the payment requests, the scrutiny that has been done, a lot of work was done. so congratulations on that. but, obviously, now we are entering the next year and so the question is what kind of ambition and what kind of control is necessary for the next phase of the rrf? and here i want to ask us to really try to stay on top of this ambition because we still need to stay strong when it comes to hungary and poland and some of the other elements in the plans – we need to ensure that they are corrected. we need to ensure that the operational arrangements are of high quality and fair to all member states and ensure especially that we have agreed on spending and where it is supposed to go. i would also say that some of the member states, like germany, can be ambitious in re-routing some of the money. i mean, there are still eur four billion, under the new german government, going to hybrid cars, so i think if we have a change of government, this can also be reflected. and this is true for bulgaria as well. and then we come to control, and here i think we have a couple of elements, which really mean that we need to step-up our game. the first one is we promised to green bond holders that the money will really be spent on green spending. so we need to keep this promise by actually sample-sizing, by testing, by scrutinising in detail the projects that are supposed to be green. and we need to keep the promise to eu citizens that we will use this money to really build solidarity and a strong union when it comes to economic governance. so i wish us all a restful and great break to be able to do that well.
i have to say, madam president, this year, eu governments received the first payments from the eu reconstruction fund. relative to gdp, croatia received almost 1.6%, while germany - the largest contributor to the eu budget with €40 billion per year - received only 0.06%. on top of the 0.00% we get from the sure unemployment program. so one croat in the eu is apparently worth more than 26 germans in terms of gdp. per capita, the payments are between 420 euros per italian and 27 euros per german, although germany is paying back the lion's share of the debt-financed reconstruction fund. in other words, an italian is worth 15.5 germans. the germans have the lowest median wealth in the eu, the lowest home ownership rate. they pay the highest payroll taxes in the eu and are deprived of at least 5% of their savings by the ecb every year. the commission stresses that everything is fine, because the german government has finally agreed. unfortunately, the commission is right. the german government has agreed to let germany go like a christmas goose. in this sense, a merry christmas, especially to the many victims of wage slavery in germany.
madam president, the recovery fund has so much potential. we’re jointly fighting climate change and investing in our digital future, investing all across the european union. well, almost, because viktor orbán’s government, for example, has prevented the european union from paying out any money in hungary. he’s keeping over eur 6 billion from hungarian citizens and businesses. and what’s even more upsetting is that orbán is lying about the reason why the money isn’t coming. he says, and i quote: “the subsidies are being held up because of hungary’s anti-lgbtiq legislation”. what utter nonsense – that we have heard here in the chamber today as well. the money is being held back – and rightfully so – because orbán is corrupt and because the funds are meant for european citizens and businesses and not to add another wing to one of the orbán family palaces. commissioners, we must stand firm. no money for the corrupt. no money for those that undermine the rule of law. only then can the recovery fund be a real success story.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe is based on values and rights, and therefore no euro from the reconstruction programme can continue to flow to countries which abandon the rule of law. how can the financial interests of the union be protected if independent local courts cannot monitor the lawful use of these funds? but the eu's values and rights include gender equality everywhere. article 23 of the charter of fundamental rights states that equality between men and women must be ensured in all areas, including employment. what about the reconstruction fund? the italian ministry of economy, commissioner, has calculated that 80% of the rrf funds will go to men's sectors. 80% is not a stimulus programme, it's a male-enhancement programme at the expense of growth. economic and budgetary policy is not a space free of fundamental rights. i therefore call on the commission to ensure that fundamental rights and gender equality are also the guiding principles of budgetary, economic and financial policy in the future.
i have to say, madam president, dear colleagues, week after week you try to find new reasons and legal instruments to force poland and its people to accept your globalist agenda. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. poland does not want migrants who support barbaric atrocities such as forced marriage and female genital mutilation. poland does not want to have radical islamic migrants who attack jews and christians almost daily, as we saw last sunday in france at a catholic service. poland also does not want to have purple-haired wokewarriors who advocate birth shame and abortion. we should recognise that the heart of democracy and the rule of law is rooted in our christian-jewish identity and that poland is very well defending this identity. the eu should therefore be proud and grateful that the polish government is upholding the national and cultural identities of the member states. i wish you a blessed and happy birthday to our savior!
i have to say, madam president, there is no doubt that the actions of dictator lukashenko are inhumane. he's using people to achieve his political goals. he has no respect for human dignity and international law. it's impeding humanitarian aid and free reporting. all of this is reprehensible. and because that is reprehensible, it is a very weak and wrong response to criminalize humanitarian aid even at our borders, to prevent reporting, to disregard human dignity ourselves, and to treat people who are freezing to death with harsher asylum laws instead of with empathy and help. we cannot pretend that it is a factor of attraction if we respect our own democratic laws. there are reasons why we no longer use clubs to decide who owns which castle and who has what rights, as in the middle ages. there are reasons for this, and there are important reasons. and i believe that if we do not want to be blackmailed any longer, then we must do everything we can next year to ensure that the rule of law prevails again at european borders against the rule of the stronger.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have often spoken here about belarus and its external borders. there are hardly words to describe what refugees have been experiencing for months. lukashenko is sweeping his country with a wave of repression. terrorism against its own people has long since reached its limit. by exploiting the weaknesses of the asylum system, he has now carried terror across borders. it is therefore up to us to provide a human rights counterpoint to the misery that lukashenko is causing not only in belarus but far beyond its own borders. even if the eu has found some acceptable solutions with the countries of origin of refugees, all eu institutions and member states must now take care of the people who are still stuck between the borders in the winter cold under absolutely inhuman conditions. humanity must be paramount while we continue to struggle for political solutions here. these tragedies and the continuing human rights violations at the eu's borders must finally come to an end. we all have a responsibility here as human beings. i would like to ask all christians, especially as we are approaching christmas, to respect the central commandment of love of man and neighbor and not to let people freeze outside.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. yes, lukashenko has abused people inhumane. yes, it was right that the commission immediately offered assistance through easo and frontex. and yes, it was also right that you took care right away that the flights were stopped and no more migrants were brought to the border. i congratulate you on that, because it was very successful. it worked out fine. there's no more coming. but that's also why your statement is just as right: we don't have a migration crisis. we do not have a migration crisis at the polish-belarusian border, but we have a rule of law crisis at this point. and i want to make it clear that because we don't have a migration crisis, we don't need your proposal either. because this proposal is designed for situations like we had in 2015 and 2016, but not for a situation where 10,000 people are affected. 10 000 migrants with permission , we will be able to vote on this in the european union! we'll get through this. that can't be the problem! that's why we don't need your proposal. what we need is for all the member states of the european union to adhere to the rule of law that we have agreed in our european union. and that includes the right of people arriving at a border to have their asylum claims examined. it doesn't mean that everyone gets asylum, but it means that first of all you take care of people, you give them a roof over their heads, you give them something to eat and you accept an asylum application. and then you can decide what to do next, but now to just let people die in the woods is indecent.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think i have to throw some water on the fire, because what we are celebrating here with a second debate is a public relations campaign. during the year of the railroad, not a single new line has been built, not a single new train has been run. the problem is precisely this: we are enthusiastic about the railway, but it still takes decades to build a simple new line. even a tram line in my home town of dresden has taken longer to design and build than a subway line in asia. you can do that for years, but it won't change anything. that's why we're skeptical of such pr efforts. what we need is the actual improvement of railway lines, not only between the big cities but also in rural areas. what about a commission programme to link up secondary routes so that they are cross-border again? i can't hear or see anything. to send three different trains a year through europe and to do a little pr for yourself: that's the eu, but that's not a policy for the railways.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, violence against women is a problem that should be addressed. however, i would like to point out here a study by the bavarian state criminal police office, which examined what sexual violence against women actually is - at least in bavaria. the results of this study were, first, that women's complaints of sexual assault are taken extremely seriously, and the investigation is always in the hands of women. second finding: in fact, although women were leading the investigations, in a large majority of cases no convictions were made. why would you do that? mainly because of the burden of proof. but there were also numerous denials by the victims, and many cases also took place in drinking and drug-related environments. and then, and this is a surprising result, about 15 percent of the cases were false suspicions. and now the really important thing: no charges against the women in these cases. if you know the consequences of an accusation of sexual assault, it's a scandal in its own right. but no one is turning a blind eye to sexual violence against women. but you should also protect the men from false accusations. in germany, the editor-in-chief of the bild newspaper just lost his job. why would you do that? for alleged sexual violence against women. what was that about? it was consensual sex with adult women who also benefited from it: they were promoted. so, to be honest, metoo is a little different from what you'd imagine. so i understand if we are going to take action against sexual violence against women. but we must be careful that we do not end up victimizing women in any way. we should also start protecting the men from false suspicion and false accusation.
mr president, turning to my dear colleagues, especially those to my right, let me say i know it’s hard to be a man these days with all this uncertainty about what you can do, what you can say, where old school manners stop and harassment starts – but no need to panic; i’m going to womensplain a few things to you. one. welcome to the club! women have grown up policing their own behaviour for centuries – can i sit like this? is my skirt too short? so what may feel like discrimination to you is actually just losing some privilege. two. sexual harassment, even if done unintentionally, is an abuse of power, so the powerful that we clearly are, we have to ask ourselves the question: do we want to use the power to intimidate and degrade, or to encourage and uplift those who do not have the privilege that we do? and three, as with all things in life, non-offensive behaviour can be learned. this is why this house offers anti-harassment training courses. this is why we should all do them mandatorily, including us as meps. i hope this was of some help.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the continuing mass crackdown on civil society and human rights defenders in russia: the case of the human rights organisation memorial (2021/3018 ((rsp)) *.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i don't want to speak for memorial, but i'd rather use the words of memorial founder andrei sakharov. he said at the founding, "the only thing that can heal our people is the unveiled truth". there are many victims of the new russian government policy in russia some are people, others are organizations. but the biggest victim, the main target of the attacks is them: the unvarnished, unvarnished truth. truth about corruption, truth about the motives for prosecuting activists, truth about the scale of the epidemic, truth about the neighboring countries and truth about the work of memorial. as in the past, the flour of lies is spreading over the daily lives of people in russia fake news, alternative facts or just the good old propaganda. memorial was the therapy for the consequences of past state crimes and an antidote to the virus of lies of today. that's why memorial is under attack. sakharov was right, as always. memorial is a guarantee of truth, and that's why we'll do everything we can to keep memorial what it is. we'll stick with memorial.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. on 11 november, the russian prosecutor general applied to the russian supreme court for the closure of the international memorial organization. memorial is alleged to have received donations from abroad and, contrary to the foreign agents act, to have failed to disclose sources of funds and to provide publications with appropriate references. the eu condemns the russian action. at the same time, germany and the eu are also making it more difficult for political parties, media or ngos to obtain funding from abroad. us media companies also curtail freedom of expression in the eu at will. politically-friendly public broadcasting enjoys billions in funding. germany is denying rt broadcasting licenses, and private chats are soon to be legally monitored. the west calls its donors stakeholders, the russians agents. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. and the rule of law is also a fairy tale in the eu and germany.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am old enough to remember a little of the final phase of communism, and i also know moscow today. so when i hear in this plenary that today's russia, today's government, is the same as stalin's reign of terror, i have to wonder if you believe what you are saying. it's obvious that this is happening on a completely different level. and the next thing is that you're not mentioning something that you can read on wikipedia, which is that memorial is no longer the focus of the research of the past, but that it is now the central platform for activism against the government policy in russia. that's the good law of memorial. but the fact is that whatever memorial admits it depends on foreign money and that there are regulations in this regard. we can criticize these regulations, but we can't criticize the fact that an organization that doesn't accept regulations ends up getting in trouble with the regulators. the debate here is not guided by facts either, but is another element of this russia-bashing, which we have now taken to the point where it does not occur only once in each plenary session - as in the case of poland, it happens once a month; russia is now two or three times a month. ladies and gentlemen, do you really need enemy images to make your policy? or don't you have a positive vision of your own?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in cuba, in particular the cases of josé daniel ferrer, the 'lady in white' aymara nieto, and those of maykel castillo, luis robles, félix navarro, luis manuel otero, pastor lorenzo rosales fajardo, andy dunier garcía and yunior garcía aguilera (2021/3019).
author. – mr president, it is nothing new that serbia is a captured state with a very weak reform track record. the serbian regime has widely opened its doors to chinese investment, but has no respect whatsoever for labour and environmental rights and, above all, human dignity. what is, however, new is the way vietnamese workers are treated in serbia, while working on the linglong tyre factory construction site. this is what you call modern slavery: no water, food and heating. is this the picture europe wants to send as a global leader in fighting for human and labour rights? other, but related, stories are the ongoing environmental protests. why do both the serbian government and rio tinto keep secrecy around the plan of what to do with lithium mining in loznica? citizens are rightly worried. so let me be clear. the environmental protests in serbia are not just about the environment, nor about laws on the referendum. the protests are equally as much about the widespread corruption, inaction of state institutions, lack of transparency and any progress on serbia’s european path. it is, therefore, high time for us in the eu to react. we risk our credibility by allowing the practice of slave labour and environmental barbarism to take root in the middle of europe in an eu candidate country. we risk the democratic transformation of serbia. instead of opening the cluster, we have to support democratic pro-european voices in the country and show them that the eu is not ready to compromise on our standards.
