i have to say, madam president, no criminal should be able to hide in one eu country for another eu country. this has been the case for many years, and denmark has been a party to the agreement that ensures this since 2004. we are now debating and voting on the report which assesses the functioning of the cooperation agreement between the member states of the european union, and it is moving forward. but we must do so quickly, because we still see major challenges with cross-border crime. it is good for the criminals, of course, but it is very bad for the legal awareness of law-abiding citizens and their confidence that we are actually able to work out this rule of law thing together. naturally, the far left here in the european parliament have tried to water down the report's points, and not surprisingly they are voting against it. it's embarrassing for a lot of good reasons. the report also makes a strong case for extending crossborder cooperation in the fight against crime to include corruption, human trafficking, gender-based violence and cybercrime. but the far left will not work for that. understand this, who can, i can't! and i hope that many colleagues will now support us in sending a strong signal to criminals that in this european union we must behave properly and that we cannot hide from the long arm of the law. while this cooperation is being reviewed, i will personally work to ensure that denmark removes its reservations about judicial cooperation, because no criminal should be able to hide in denmark or for denmark - no one!
for the left group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. it is very important for the eu member states to protect the best interests of the community and, for example, to prevent airbnb from causing house prices in the major european cities to explode. obviously not, if it is the danish liberal party of the left. in a report to the european parliament, morten løkkegaard, chairman of the left group, suggests that the member states should be restricted in their ability to regulate the internal market in services. it will undoubtedly be a liberal dream. but it will not only be a disaster for ordinary people who are looking for cheap housing and find it impossible to find an affordable rental for the police officer or nurse. that is why the united list will of course vote against the left's proposal, and so will the group of the european left.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i was in brussels during the first lockdown, and here i saw us standing on our balconies, applauded by the health and care workers. it was a wild feeling, and those people deserve applause for being on the front lines of the corona fight. but applause is not enough. women who are employed as nurses in the country expose themselves and their families to disease every day. it is also one of the many women's subjects that is underpaid and lacks recognition. the statistics show that we are far from economic and social equality, and the health crisis has only made it worse. we must ensure equal pay and we must close the pay gap! it is therefore more important than ever that the commission gets down to business soon and presents its proposal on pay transparency. we have been waiting and it is a huge failure on the part of the hardworking women in health and care that this proposal is being put off again. i therefore look forward to the commission's proposal. the coronavirus crisis has also shown us that children and single parents and women and people with disabilities are the first to be affected. we therefore need to strengthen our social safety net through a european guarantee of minimum incomes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for speaking and thank you to the other members for the many good comments. as far as the eu tax list is concerned, i hardly know where to start. for what is the eu's list of so-called non-cooperative jurisdictions? according to the european council's website, it is a list of non-eu countries that encourage harmful tax practices that drain eu countries' tax revenues from businesses. this may sound ok on paper, but the reality is that only two percent of the billions lost in tax havens are lost in countries on the eu list. seriously, what the hell good is that list anyway? last fall, the cayman islands, the favorite destination, was dropped from the list, and already the list includes only one of the world's 20 worst tax havens. it is a bad joke how miserable the criteria for inclusion are, and an even worse joke that the eu's own tax havens are not on it. the most obvious is that a criterion must be to put countries on the list if they offer a zero percent tax. you can hear that parliament is clear, and i hope therefore that the commission will be responsible so that the tax-evading companies will pay their price.
madam president, my sister has two children. one is quiet, careful and thinks a lot about what is going on. one is full of energy, cannot sit still, jumps first, thinks later. our bodies have a gender. our minds, personality and interests do not. my two nieces are very different — but both girls. i often wonder how much of their personality would have been attributed to their gender if one of them was a boy, when really it is just because they are the persons who they are. we can dress according to the role we want society to see us in, but all too often society imposes expectations on us, just because of the body we were born into. ada lovelace was the first coder in history. she was a woman. she and countless women after her created the digital technologies we’re using today. yet in the digital sector today, we see gender stereotypes and discrimination hinder access for women. these barriers are cultural in our society and it is essential that we tear these barriers down. we need to show young girls and women they can be, and they can do, anything they want. we need companies to make sure that they do not push women out. we need a digital transition, a digital economy which provides equal opportunity which empowers everyone regardless of their gender.
, on behalf of the ppe group madam president! nobody has anything against a circular economy. we all have an interest in nurturing the obvious potential it has for our climate, our environment, and yes, on a grand scale, the future of the planet. but the way a circular economy is woven together is not insignificant. i would therefore like to warn strongly against the, excuse me, naive greenwashing that is threatening to undermine the impact of the report. for how can we imagine a total ban on companies being allowed to destroy unsold goods if that is the only and most sustainable way of disposing of them? how the hell do you think it's okay to nullify what is basically private property? i have noticed that so-called liberal colleagues are behind the proposal for prohibition and encroachment on private property rights. liberals, who often refer to themselves as the voice of business, innovation and common sense in the eu. but not in this case, which is why we must hope that the bourgeois-liberal governments of the european union will do so.
i have to say, madam president, if you're saying you haven't seen them, then you might be right. but it's also true that they exist: people trafficked by other people for prostitution and slave labor under the radar, far from the authorities' spotlight, overlooked by most of us. if you claim that they all did it on their own, that they wanted it themselves, that they knew all along what they were up against when they set out against the eu and in the process accepted unspeakable exploitation, then you expect more from your neighbour than he or she can achieve as the person who has long ago given up his or her dignity. it is therefore essential that we in the eu work with those actors who are there when the authorities do not intervene. the invaluable and often voluntary contribution of civil society to building trust and security, and to bridging the otherwise confined situation of trafficked people towards a freer, healthier and more dignified life. i'd like to be back in my own country. the invaluable role of civil society is precisely what i have proposed here in the text on which we are voting tomorrow. i look forward to seeing you all vote in favour.
i have to say, madam president, it is easy to see the attitude here in the sacred halls of the european union. if the eu is not working, it is simply because we have not had enough of it. if the eu is wrongly constructed, then it must be built upwards. and if the federal train of the european union has run off the rails, then we just have to shovel even more coal on. it's the eu doctrine over and over again. more and more the eu is wrapped up in empty rhetoric about cohesion and solidarity. so we are talking about a package of several hundred billion euros, of which up to half of the money is direct financial aid to southern and eastern europe. it is an astronomical sum that countries with order in their affairs will have to pay for those with disorder in their affairs. all this is evidence of a project that is thundering in one direction, towards the united states of europe. the objective seems clear: fiscal policy is harmonized, debt policy is harmonized and the money is directed towards southern and eastern europe. and then the rest of us are left with eu taxes. imagine that you are using the corona crisis to fulfill your wet federal dreams of even more europe. if you oppose this federal money circus, you are exposed as being anti-social. but i have a message for you, for those of you who are trying to cling to that false story: it is not unsolidarity to say no to countries like denmark, which have reformed our economy several times, now having to pay again for those countries which have failed to take due care of their own monetary affairs. it is not unsolidarist to insist that the danes should not pay for more money for gifts to southern and eastern europe. it is not unsolidarity to oppose eu taxes. i'm getting sick and tired of the danes paying and paying and paying. i am voting against this and i look forward to the day when denmark will withdraw from the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a staggering amount that eu leaders agreed to borrow this summer to repair the many damage caused by the coronavirus. injuries that in many places are more or less self-inflicted. but there is no doubt that the money is needed. there is no doubt that the best use of money varies from country to country. but there is no doubt that if the money is cheated, misused or wasted, it will fuel discontent with the eu and mistrust between neighbours. and we, colleagues, will all be beaten. some of us will use it to our own advantage, but most of us will get our asses on comedy. the european parliament is in many ways the eu's examining officer and motor guard. the house of representatives must be able to measure up to a little bit of everything. it is therefore absolutely essential that all member states respect the rules of the game that are now on the table. the countries will, inter alia, have to provide clear national action plans. since this is our collective money, it is only natural that openness and full transparency should be ensured both towards the european parliament and, above all, towards citizens and smes in the countries concerned. the effectiveness of the eu aid fund must of course be openly praised and criticized. i hope that national governments will ensure that.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, equality is a fundamental value of the european union. equality starts with our right to decide over our own body. the decision by the ‘unconstitutional’ constitutional tribunal in poland flies in the face of this fundamental value. the last five years the polish government has abandoned the values that unite europe. minorities have been under attack, the rule of law has been under attack, and women, women’s bodies, have been under attack. the right to abortion has slowly but surely been stolen from polish women. the fight of polish women for their rights is also my fight. i am not free and equal until all women in europe are free and equal. the right to abortion should not be an ideological battle, but the polish government has made it into an ideological battleground. ms jadwiga wiśniewska, would you force your daughter to carry her embrypathological foetus to term, to force her to give birth not to a baby, but to a corpse? it is time to say stop. dość tego!
i have to say, madam president, women have the right to decide what to do with their own bodies. it is a human right and that right must not be violated. but it's happening right now in poland. the right-wing polish government has pushed through the ban on abortion. it's not just a violation of women's right to control their own bodies. it is also a clear violation of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, as the decision was taken by illegally appointed judges. the ban on abortion is being implemented despite strong protests from the polish population, which has defied police violence and abuse for many months. polish women deserve the right to decide about their own bodies. poland deserves respect for the fundamental principles of the rule of law. that is why the eu must act. the rule of law mechanism must be activated. no eu aid should go to the polish government as long as it violates human rights.
madam chairman! there's good news and bad news right now. the good news is that there are actually vaccines that have been developed that can fight the corona, get us out of the lockdowns and into freedom. the bad news is that the eu is responsible for getting us the vaccines we so badly need. while they are vaccinating the uk, the us and israel, europe is in a state of shock. there is no limit to how much the eu system has mocked the british or shook the american head in recent years. but now the european system is losing to the very people who have been completely ignored in this house. the eu's role in this matter is of a very low profile. i think a lot of people in here will remember funny ali. the former iraqi minister of information who, during the iraq war, bragged to all the media about how strong and how victorious the iraqi army was, when in reality it was a total collapse. when it comes to vaccine strategy, i think the commission president reminds me a little of ali the funny guy. they have the self-esteem in common, but unfortunately, they also have the collapse. because in the eu we stand still. in the eu, we have far too few vaccines and we have started too late. that means more sick and more dead and unnecessarily harsh and prolonged restrictions and shutdowns across the continent. on the day we started the vaccinations, we were also told by the president of the commission that the vaccinations were the symbol of cohesion and a european success story. if the eu's view of the vaccine purchase is that it has been a success, i dare not think what the disaster scenario would have been.
madam president, we have no digital democracy. we have democracy. we have no digital human rights. we have human rights. our freedom of expression must be protected equally online as we protect it offline. more and more of our communication and democracy is taking place online and, under covid, it has quickly become much more, as we no longer make a distinction between the online and the offline but rather regard it as one and the same – our lives, our reality, our democracy. what that means is that the same principles of human rights must be respected online as well as offline. in the past decade, we’ve observed the platformisation of the internet. openness and free spirit have been consolidated into the monopoly of a few platforms. therefore, the regulation of digital platforms has become even more important. however, the laws of physics online are different from those in the offline world. therefore, we cannot simply apply regulation designed for the offline world online. attempting to do so leads to a restriction of our human rights and has a chilling effect on our democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm 23 in two weeks. so i'm about the same age as this declaration. the question is, have we achieved equality between men and women, have we ensured that women's rights are human rights, during my time and that of the beijing declaration? the simple answer is that we don't. a newborn girl has fewer and fewer chances to go to school, to get an education and to become financially independent. in the eu men still earn 16% more than women and their pension savings are bigger, and it scares me that in 2021 we still have to discuss whether a woman has the right to an abortion today in an eu country it simply cannot be! i think we should make 2021 the year we give equality a boost. we will take an important step in march when we get the equal pay proposal and can start working on pay transparency, and then i hope - i actually expect - that we will work together to close the gap between men and women. the first 25 years have not been enough, and i hope that we can achieve the goals in the next few years, so that i and the beijing declaration can celebrate our 50th anniversary in an equal world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this proposal on inequality really says it all about the european parliament. you mention everything: climate, it's obviously an issue for equality, gender gaps across digital technology areas are an issue for equality, but in these 15 pages, they don't mention the most important issue, they forget. the main problem for me to see is islamic immigration and its consequences on the european level: oppression of women, domination, social control, forced marriages and so on. you just don't mention it. to me, this political correctness is the worst kind of crap. islamic societies are not the best societies to grow up in as a woman or to be a woman in, quite the opposite. when you import islamic culture with all the problems it must have, you know it will go wrong, and this parliament does not even mention it in the text. i think it's a shame.
mr. chairman, please. there is a lot of good to be said about the idea of the cbam, the co2 tariff into the eu - not least about the intentions behind it - but also a lot of talk. especially because the eu's carbon trading system, ets, is being incorporated into the design of the cbam. cbam and ets are therefore two different tools and they should be used with respect to how they each fit their part of the shop for a greener future. cbam itself is a premature experiment that is not ready to fly at all. the cbam, as it is claimed, is therefore a better protection against carbon leakage and business flight out of the eu than the free ets allowances, that is santa claus! we know about the ets, and a revision is under way - we welcome it in the epp - but when the report on cbam proposes phasing out the free allowances in the ets by 2030, it is interfering in something it should not. and if that part is not voted on, it will create considerable uncertainty for european energy-intensive businesses, which will lead to less investment. companies that have lots of invaluable and indispensable jobs and that provide solid income through exports. i hope that common sense and a responsible approach to the eu's economic muscle - our businesses - which is what we are using to push the world in a greener direction, will prevail over political drill. the next generation will not be able to use them for anything. only china will clap their hands, and i don't think that was the intention.
i have to say, madam president, the most effective way to promote and protect human rights and to promote compliance with environmental and social standards is for businesses and citizens to behave in a responsible, critical and responsible manner. for us europeans, it is fairly easy. we have a relatively high moral code and systems that help us translate values into reality. it's just not the way the world works. so someone has to take the lead, and the eu still has the economic and cultural muscle to do so. but that muscle, we also need to use it properly so that it doesn't burn up along the way, because then nothing is accomplished. on the contrary, i think so. there is a lot of good in the report on corporate due diligence, but there is also a little bit of bad. we must get the bad stuff out of the report before we send it to the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it will affect millions of smes and the shortage of green and socially responsible entrepreneurs that we so badly need. i imagine the left doesn't care. but i hope that most of us in this house will help to keep europe's economic muscle in good shape so that we can use it to push the world in a better direction. especially in these years, with china's surge, we're not going anywhere with good intentions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i’ve had the pleasure to work on both the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) side of this file, and i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the different colleagues for the work that they’ve done on this file. as we see, the scale of social damage resulting from the corona crisis is unprecedented, and now more than ever we need to show europeans the importance of strong cooperation and solidarity to face collective economic, social and environmental threats that we are facing. we need a just and a green restart and recovery after the corona crisis. and this green and just transition will be supported by the funds of the recovery facilities. but it can only happen if we have the right mechanisms to support it. and the semester process is one very important mechanism, an important focus in the report we are voting on today. the current crisis revealed once again the interdependence between human health, the well-being of our societies and of the natural systems on which they depend. for europeans to live well within the limits of the planet, our modes of production and consumption need a radical change. a green energy transition should boost this radical change and prepare us for the world that is coming. and to make sure that future generations will have opportunities after this crisis, we need to be in line with the green deal. this means, and we’ve discussed it so much, that the economic support the recovery facilities would give to the member states should do no harm on our planet. when we are adding resources to the member states they should be green and we have to use the funds to prioritise green reforms and reforms supporting a just and green transition, and the national recovery plans are an important part of this. and it has to go hand-in-hand also with a just social recovery, contributing to not only tackling unemployment, but also making sure it leads to the creation of high quality and stable jobs for young people especially. we need to focus on the inclusion of integrating disadvantaged groups and to fight poverty. i am very much looking forward to the future work on this with the commissioners and with you guys in parliament.
i have to say, madam president, when i read the report here, i am really concerned, particularly about the part dealing with employment and involvement in social aspects. i am simply afraid that the european union will go too far. i would like to warn that greater eu involvement in this area will not necessarily solve the problems that europe may have. perhaps the opposite. firstly, because it seems to me that this is the wrong thing to do. social and employment policy is a matter of great concern to our nation states. it is our own countries that have to look after our own particular models. they simply deserve better than one model that is thought to fit all. i do not believe that this is the case in a europe of diversity. i think we have to tailor the different models to our different countries, and the countries have to do that themselves. secondly, i don't think it's going to work. a social union would undermine our national policies and, moreover, would be very intrusive in our different ways of living our lives. i can understand the demand for a common european unemployment scheme. to my ears, that sounds extremely negative. can we really imagine taxpayers in denmark, for example, paying for unemployment elsewhere in europe? in other countries that have refused to exercise economic restraint, reform their economies and look after themselves? that's not gonna happen! it would require a completely different kind of cooperation, one that would be devoid of any common sense.
for the left group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. exploitation, underpayment, and fraud. unfortunately, this is the everyday life of far too many workers in europe. greedy employers exploit our foreign colleagues, cheating on both taxes and social security. social dumping and fraud create a race to the bottom which hits hard at the individual builder, the individual truck driver and the agricultural worker. unfortunately, the problem of social dumping is not solved by the commission's proposal for an action plan for the social pillar. my dear colleagues, this is not possible! it's time to act. we need a concerted effort to combat fraud and fraudulent practices. we need to stop the race to the bottom. we need to ensure equal pay for equal work in the same workplace. we need an individual work card to strengthen enforcement and protection of the individual worker. it's time to act.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what can and should our european cooperation be? does it exist only to send goods across borders and to make life easier for businesses? no, of course not. our european cooperation is also about justice and, above all, about a common commitment to lift each other up, to lift all europeans up. today, one in five people in europe live in poverty, and the coronavirus crisis will add more to the statistics. we've got to do something about that! today we are not ambitious enough to commit the eu countries to creating proper safety nets for those who have no other choice. we have not yet been ambitious enough to ensure equality and equal pay. if i'm ever lucky enough to have a daughter, i want her to know that her work is worth as much as her male colleagues. here is a tool that puts pay equality at the centre, and i look forward to fighting for that in this mandate with the commission and your colleagues in parliament and in the council. the european pillar of social rights should be the backbone of european poverty and should help to combat inequality and poverty across europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's only been two months since i stood here and talked about tax evasion. talked about how lousy the eu's blacklist of tax havens is. since then, another tax haven has been removed from the list barbados and revelations in openlux have reminded us that we also have tax havens in the eu to that extent. yesterday, the tax justice network released its top 10 list of tax havens worldwide. not one of the ten countries is on the eu's blacklist. tell me, what are we going to do with the list, besides having good debates in this house? the netherlands is the fourth largest tax haven in the world, and luxembourg is number six. it shows that we must take a total stand in the eu once and for all and do something about our own tax havens. we are a community built on common values. but it is not a shared value to cheat one's neighbours by undercutting one another with lucrative tax deals and loopholes. i hope this is the last time we have to address this so we can get to work. thank you for speaking!
mr president, i would like to thank you. what do mertesacker, woods and shakira have in common with the king of bahrain and companies like fizer and amazon? they all have accounts in the tax haven of luxembourg, where they transfer profits through shell companies and other tricks. luxembourg's official corporate tax rate is around 25%. in fact, in many cases it is less than one percent. commissioner, minister, that makes me angry! in fact, we should all be angry about this. how many billions must we be cheated of before we all say to luxembourg: 'stop, we can't do it any more'? the first step is to adopt legislation on the transparency of company accounts. the next step is to adopt a common minimum corporate tax in the eu. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to act.
for the left group. - madam president! abdulhadi al-khawaja is currently serving a 10-year prison sentence in bahrain. al-khawaja is a danish citizen and human rights defender. his only crime is to organize a peaceful demonstration for democracy and freedom. for the past ten years, he has been tortured, starved, abused without having access to a fair trial. unfortunately, al-khawaja is not alone. in bahrain, some 50 journalists, politicians and human rights defenders have been sentenced to death for exercising their freedom of expression. today we are sending an important signal to al-khawaja and the political prisoners in bahrain: you are not forgotten, we see you and we demand your immediate release. and we're sending a clear signal to the darkened dictatorship in bahrain. your days are numbered. we will never accept your oppression. the people of bahrain are entitled to human rights, democracy and freedom.
mr president, i would like to thank you. no matter how you screw this up, we don't want eu taxes. not now, not in the future. i will never do that! that would be a very big no from here. the european tax would be a big step towards the federal superstate and it would be another bill on the way to the danes. because it's the endless screw. the eu can never have enough. the eu is never satisfied. we just always have to pay more, and you always have to decide more. do you really think the eu should have tax powers? does anyone have any idea what a fundamental earthquake it would be if that were to happen? to me, that sounds like a nightmare that will keep me up at night if you guys get tax jurisdiction. i respect and really envy the british for leaving the eu system and you and your taxes, and i want denmark to leave the eu. better today than tomorrow.
for the ppe group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the fact that we in europe have an air pollution challenge is a fact. some 400 000 europeans die each year as a result of air pollution. the worst is in central and eastern europe. it's looked worse than it does today. we are well on our way, although we could go faster, also in view of the fact that air pollution, in addition to human lives, costs citizens lost earnings, companies lost production and means increased expenditure on health care. the eu, with its policies and its many toolboxes, must continue to be the engine that drives the work towards a cleaner and healthier environment across europe. the solutions we find are also solutions that are needed in the rest of the world. therefore, focusing on air pollution is also a source of new business opportunities. this report is therefore a clear initiative to set the direction for the eu's zero-pollution action plans within the framework of the european green deal. but direction is not enough. action is needed, and preferably in ways that do not put cities on hold and shut down important jobs because we are paralysed by the scale of the problems. the epp therefore particularly advocates that eu air quality standards be assessed in the light of the new who guidelines. this is how we can identify the most sustainable solutions for the eu and show the way to the rest of the world. i hope, of course, that everyone can agree that this is a good idea.
i have to say, madam president, the decision to withdraw turkey from the istanbul convention is a legitimization of violence against women, a legitimization of violence which affects up to 40 per cent of the female population in turkey. violence that killed at least 474 women in 2019 alone. violence that must and must be stopped. since the decision was announced, brave women in turkey have taken to the streets in protest. they need our support. they need our solidarity. they need a clear criticism of erdogan from the eu leaders. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include women's rights. women are abused, women are murdered. the eu must and must act.
i have to say, madam president, at least 38 percent of women in turkey are subjected to violence by their partners every year. it is therefore not wrong to say that the value of turkey's signature of the council of europe convention for ten years has been zero. the convention aims to combat violence against women, marital rape, other forms of sexual violence against women and female genital mutilation. the convention is named after the city of istanbul, which, ironically, lies on the border between europe and the arab world. but when erdogan has to satisfy his dark-eyed medieval supporters and find new ways to mock and provoke the eu, which the country will never join, women's health, safety, well-being, freedom and dignity are sacrificed. it is disgusting to witness, and we should use that disgust to accelerate our efforts so that we can act more forcefully against erdogan. it is deserved by turkish women and all decent people who put their trust in cooperation agreements to make the world a better place.
i have to say, madam president, data is our greatest source of knowledge today, and that knowledge should benefit us all. the european data strategy is to ensure access to data across member states, between companies and to researchers. why would you do that? because we are one of the regions that is most data-rich, but also most data-deprived. we don't share data, even though it would benefit all of us. access to data allows us to do health research and develop the new green solutions that we need. access to data allows not only new companies, start-ups, but also the old ones to develop new solutions. an ambitious data strategy will therefore ensure that europe does not become the open air museum of the world. we must lay the foundations for europe to be at the forefront of new knowledge. with our own solutions and by keeping some of the data in the eu, we create increased security for your data. we must also ensure that data is made more anonymous and that europe is a leader in research into synthetic datasets. in europe, we put responsibility and people first, even when we develop technology. so let us lay the foundations of the data strategy, where we build a europe based on knowledge and integrity. data is knowledge and europe must be based on knowledge.
i have to say, madam president, the european union's total naivety and weakness is exposed in "sofagate". before that, erdogan trampled on our borders, he threatened us with flows of migrants, and he insulted european neighbours, and most recently he humiliated the president of the european commission with "sofagate". erdogan is a scoundrel, and the eu simply cannot continue to seek peaceful dialogue with a man who wants us badly. we have to say no, and it can be done very simply. stop the money flowing to turkey. tell them they'll never be members of the eu and close the borders and take back control of migration. erdogan, he is our opponent. i don't want him to have any more dialogue meetings with open coffers and weak borders. he's going to be met with resistance. but unfortunately the eu has become dependent on turkey's whims and is at the same time feeding this despot. it's not safe. madam president of the commission, erdogan treated you disrespectfully, but he treats europe worse, and unfortunately no one in the eu system is going to do anything about it. it's scary!
for the ppe group. mr president, you can have dirt on your head. it's not so good. it is better to have earth under one's feet, for then one stands best. earth forms the landscape and feeds the food, earth purifies the water. and then it pretty much stays where we've decided it should. soil is one of the most basic ingredients for life. so we owe it to our children and grandchildren to take good care of it. for the same reason, it makes good sense that the eu is approaching a set of fundamental agreements on how we do it in the future. the epp is all for it. that is why we are very pleased with the text now agreed by most of the political groups in this parliament, and i would also recommend that we vote in favour of all the compromises reached. in this connection, i would like to thank mr hojsík for his commitment to the most important task of democracy, namely to ensure that the art of the possible is widely supported. what we in the epp particularly welcome is, of course, that the responsibilities of the member states are clearly marked, as is the respect for the fact that most of the land in the eu is privately owned, and this is emphasized. the commission has thus set clear boundaries in the political landscape against which it will measure the future action plan for water, air and land. i hope that this will ensure a sensible and realistic outcome which will not leave anyone with the impression that down in the eu they still have dirt in their heads.
i have to say, madam president, i am both happy and sad about brexit: happy that brexit is actually happening, but sad at the same time that the eu has developed in such a bad way that a majority of britons consider it unattractive. brexit is the result of too much eu. it is good that the decision taken by the british is being implemented and that the result of the referendum is being respected. it is good that the british are taking power from the eu and i would like to congratulate the british once again on the agreement that has been reached. the agreement is good and it is light years better than what the eurocrats and the federalists claimed could be achieved. i wish the british the best, and they are still our good friends, our neighbours and our allies. but i had hoped that brexit had really triggered a self-reflection in the eu system. that the eu system had asked itself why a majority of britons would rather live outside the eu. that hasn't happened, to say the least. instead of looking inwards, they have plunged into an even larger and more far-reaching european project on immigration and borders, on our economy of shared debt and large gifts to southern and eastern europe, and on social rights and the labour market. the very thing that many of us have had enough of, we are now getting even more of. in this light, i must say that the british people made the right choice when they voted to leave the european union, and that in the years to come the european union will become less attractive to small countries like denmark, when it will be more the federalists who will be wielding the whip. there will be less room for national differences in this system. i would rather that the eu reminded us more of the cooperation that denmark once entered into, which was about trading with each other - which i consider a great good - and creating better relations with neighbours with whom we have historically had conflicts. so a much more limited eu than we have today, where countries like denmark are forced to be central to the distribution of welfare benefits, where we are fighting our border controls at our national borders, and where the bill for joining has exploded. is there anything to be said for the british not wanting to be a part of it anymore? the eu has developed in a very wrong direction over the last many years. more europe will not lead to a happier europe, but more europe will mean more popular power and the gradual dilution of the capacity of national democracies to take decisions adapted to the needs of individual nations. with britain out, the federalist trend will move even faster. i am very concerned about this on behalf of denmark, but also on behalf of the rest of the european countries. i wish the uk well outside the eu and i look forward to the day when denmark comes to the same conclusion and withdraws from the eu. because i simply do not believe that this system can or will be saved or corrected. this system will only grow.
madam president, i would like to say thank you very much to the commissioner. without being real birds, of course, some of us are the canaries in the coalmine of democracy. but are you listening? have you heard that we’ve stopped singing? as much as i support the trilogue outcome, i regret that women, lgbtqi persons and historically marginalised groups have been removed from the text. the backlash against gender equality and equal rights for lgbtqi people is directly linked to the rule of law. throughout history, minority rights have been the first to go when rule of law and democracy is torn down. don’t pretend that it’s a difference of culture. our democracy is in danger. abortion ban in poland, ban on legal gender change in hungary, exclusion of lgbtqi persons from their home cities in poland: these are symptoms of a larger issue. democracy is crumbling within our union. a europe based on values requires us to invest in, as well as defend, our rule of law, which is fundamental to our democracy. our defence of rule of law starts with the defence of minority rights and gender equality.
i have to say, madam president, the expectations for the covid-19 pass are enormous, and there's nothing to say about that. free movement in the eu, together with the single market, is what creates growth and prosperity. countries whose economies are based on tourism need this passport. smes working across borders need this passport. a digital covid-19 passport is simply a must-have, and a passport that works. because if it does not, it will be just another stupid sandbag in the eu's balloon basket of unjustified irritation. but what is also a must is that the commission and the council will tell us what they are going to do to thin out the jungle of national restrictions which nevertheless make the active use of the passport impossible. what will you do to give us europeans real freedom of movement without friction, free of crazy six-day rules, oblique distance requirements and meaningless test requirements? and to the commission: please do not say that you need more power. you can't have that. i look forward to hearing good suggestions from both sides.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. madam president, the last year has seen a huge boom in the digital economy. a lot of us are having meetings from home on zoom. we're talking to family and friends on the iphone, and we're shopping online like never before. digital companies are doing well, and they're growing, but they're not contributing to our society as much as they should. in my own country, denmark, the corporate tax rate is 22%, but the multinational digital companies do not pay that. we have seen that facebook in europe has paid an effective corporate tax rate of 0.03 percent. google is at 0.8 percent. apple has made a deal with ireland where they've paid 0.005 percent. is that fair? is that fair? is this something we can defend against the many people who have always paid taxes and who during the corona crisis have lost their jobs, lost their economy and now have to stand and watch this? - i know. you want to do it again? i know! with this agreement, i am optimistic for the first time because i see a large majority in the european parliament supporting an effective minimum corporate tax at international level. i think it is good that we can come together to welcome the momentum that joe biden's proposal has created. a proposal which, as you will note, contains the idea of introducing a minimum tax of 21%. i hope that 2021 will be the year when we all decide that it is democracy and not multinational corporations that determine tax justice in europe. i would like to thank rapporteurs schwab and hlaváček for their cooperation. we're taking the first step today. over the next few months, we'll take the next steps.
i have to say, madam president, i am not saying that we should not be concerned. recently, the u.s. treasury secretary unveiled a tax reform proposal that would impose a global corporate tax rate of at least 21 percent. it is a very big news, which i have not dared to dream of, and it has enormous potential to become a turning point in the fight against tax evasion and tax speculation. this is a very good starting point for the oecd negotiations. but i'm still a little disappointed. not the american flag, but the commission. why are we not the ones in the eu who are proposing such a thing? perhaps it is because several eu member states are making a lot of money by attracting multinational companies with an excessively low corporate tax rate. just look at ireland, where they have managed to lure in google, apple and other tech giants because of low tax rates. it is pointless not to stop the race to the bottom, and i hope that the commission will come out of the bush and wholeheartedly back the american rate. anything else is unambitious.
mr president, i would like to thank you. whether you steal from the coffee shop at work or deliberately fill it with eu money in breach of the rules or as a head of government cheat with many millions of eu agricultural aid, it is virtually irrelevant because it is and will be cheated. and so cheating is both a nasty and dangerous drill in the foundation of trust between people and the will to honestly and properly cooperate for the common good. we must therefore apply it with the same tenacity and efficiency as we apply all the other elements of what we call the rule of law. today's text, the eu's anti-fraud programme, is not in itself a problem, because it describes very well what needs to be done. but having said that, i would like to stress that neither the commission nor the council should be foolish in making any effort to communicate the content to the member states. because the truth is, it's hard to go after people who cheat. because when the eu's fraud office, olaf, has done its part of the investigation and has forwarded a case to the member state, well over half of the cases end up in the dustbin. in 2018 alone, cases worth €371 million were brought, and about two-thirds of them have ended up in the trash because the member state for some reason won't take off the velvet gloves. this has to stop now! with the programme we are sending later today, all countries and the eu institutions have the tools and resources to tackle fraud and deception. because even if it is eu money, it is, in the end, your money and mine that are at stake, and they must be treated properly.
i have to say that i am very pleased. in the europe of the future, the major resources of our energy system will not be oil, coal and gas. it's going to be green electricity and hydrogen coming from green electricity. this of course requires a complete restructuring of the way we produce energy in europe. in this context, i am pleased that the two strategies we are discussing today are pointing in the right direction. we need to expand our offshore wind energy, build up large resources in offshore energy, so we can have green power. we must also integrate our energy systems and therefore have the excavators to build our cables around europe that can connect our energy systems. and then we're going to go green hydrogen. we know from research that in a very few years, green hydrogen will be economically much more profitable than hydrogen from fossil fuels. that's why we're going to go green hydrogen.
i have to say, madam president, energy - it is climate policy, it is environmental policy, it is industrial policy and it is certainly also independence policy. so there are many opinions about energy, just as there are many types of energy. hydrogen, or hydrogen as it is also called, is one of them. hydrogen will be crucial in the future eu energy mix to enable the energy-intensive industries and the energy-intensive part of the transport sector in particular to become fossil-free. the technology is there, almost, and the investors are jumping at it. that is why we are now getting an eu strategy for hydrogen at the 11th hour. of all the various proposals and demands contained in parliament's report, one in particular is important. we need to ensure that there are frameworks and conditions for investors and technologies to meet very soon and in projects that are large enough and cross-cutting enough to catalyze the established business models that are waiting to take over the market from either imported fossil energy or energy currently being spoiled by skewed market projections in the eu's energy union. let us now use the eu hydrogen strategy to show the rest of the world how to create a logical, innovative, cost-effective and, above all, energy-efficient energy market.
i'm the reporter. i would like to thank the president-in-office. a big thank you to the political groups for their constructive cooperation. your willingness to make broad compromises has meant that the report has passed through the committee and that no groups have chosen to table amendments. i think we can all be very happy about that. it sends a strong signal to the commission when parliament stands united across political groups and countries. as you know, this report is parliament's contribution to the commission's forthcoming evaluation of the common fisheries policy, and in particular article 15 of the common fisheries policy, also known as the landing obligation. the landing obligation has rightly been the subject of much debate, despite the good intentions and the support of all the parties involved. we need to have as sustainable a fishery as possible. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. unfortunately, the landing obligation today sometimes stands in the way of sustainable fishing. the rules are too rigid and don't work as intended. that is why the fisheries sector today is entirely dependent on exceptions. the implementation of the landing obligation has also not been entirely satisfactory throughout europe. unfortunately, this poses a number of challenges for the fisheries sector. when we have common rules, we must also ensure that everyone implements and enforces those common rules. i come from a country where many fishermen feel that they are subject to stricter rules than their colleagues in other european countries. it's not like it's gonna do anybody any good. that is why the report also contains a number of calls for action to be made to both the member states and the commission. we must be much better at involving the fishermen. they're our eyes and ears on the sea. they have the expertise, and they have an interest in making sure that our fisheries are sustainable and that the rules are set up in a way that makes sense. the report also calls for support for more selective fishing methods. we must do this, among other things, by speeding up the approval of new forms of fishing and by supporting their development. we must also reward the fishermen who are driving the development and, most importantly, we must find out whether the landing obligation is actually working. we therefore call on the commission to undertake a thorough analysis of the consequences of the landing obligation. we also call on the commission to look at how the landing obligation can be simplified and improved, because one thing is certain: it is far from working optimally today. the most worrying thing is that we do not know whether the landing obligation has worked at all. the report also stresses that there is no scientific evidence that the landing obligation has led to fewer unwanted catches. let me conclude with a call to the commission. our fisheries have never been under more pressure, partly because of the poor negotiations of the commission on quotas, partly because of brexit, but also because of all the administrative hassle we are putting on the fisheries in europe. let us try to make life easier for our fishermen for once. remember that much of the fishing today is much more sustainable than it has been for a long time. we should recognize and reward that. it should not be punished by more rules and restrictions and administrative hassle. so when the common fisheries policy is to be evaluated, it is my silent, naive hope that for once it will not end up with another pile of restrictions, increased monitoring, more reporting and more rules for our fishermen. it is a demanding profession and we have an obligation to listen to their call. we have an obligation to impose only rules that make sense and can actually be followed.
i have to say, madam president, thousands of migrants drown in the mediterranean. the smugglers are getting richer. the external borders are floating, and at the same time europe is facing massive problems of unintegrated migrants from islamic countries in the middle east and africa. the current immigration system is not working. it's a disaster, and it's tragic. how can the eu maintain this system for decades, while you preach human rights and mercy to the rest of us who want to stop this circus of migration? the only good, durable and secure model is the australian model, because we need secure, closed borders. we need to slow down the migration and start sending people back. and then we need to save europe at all costs. that is why we must build fort europe.
for the id group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. there are a lot of reports and proposals in this house that are crazy. and then there are those where you lose your jaw. i'm losing my jaw here! this is about more immigration of labor from africa, the middle east and asia. and we're not talking about dentists and engineers. we're talking about unskilled labor. but let me ask you: what is the point of having more goat herders and carpet-blowers in europe? if you want more unskilled african labour, there is plenty to do in the ghetto areas where unemployment is sky high. you can rest assured that my ambition is the exact opposite of yours. because we don't want to have more immigration and import unskilled labour from all over the world. why do you want to import labour when there are people in europe who are unemployed on that day? the eu already has massive problems of social dumping, and this does not make it better, on the contrary. we have to think of our own employees first. and it is a social democrat who has put forward this proposal. where is your solidarity with the european wage-earners? your desire to open the frontiers to unskilled africans overrides the concern for the many people in europe who daily struggle on the margins of the labour market. this is an insult to ordinary, hardworking people. your model for stopping illegal immigration is just making it legal. with that logic, we can also eliminate speed bumps on the highways by lifting speed limits. this is stupid, absolutely stupid. i am happy to vote against the eu's and indeed the social democrats' vision of importing unskilled labour from all over the world. i would rather protect the jobs and safety of danish employees.
madam chairman! oscar-winning film director thomas vinterberg had his international breakthrough with the film the party. in it, the main character has two different speeches for his father's birthday. he picks one, and the drama unfolds. i have also considered two speeches on the proposal for new ways of legal migration of workers. i am choosing the positive and hope that future negotiations between the council and parliament on this subject will avoid initiating a fruitless ideological drama which will blind us to the growing challenges of illegal migration. the need for manpower for the eu in the face of our shrinking population is real. we must therefore be able to attract the skilled hands and highly educated minds we need if the eu's competitiveness, economic muscle and high ambitions for growth and prosperity and security of european families are to be realised. it is short-sighted and unrealistic to oppose it. but that said, i am frankly disappointed by my colleagues' too sporadic respect for the sovereign right and responsibility of member states to determine who, when and not least how foreign workers are to be in one of our member states. i was also disappointed by the lack of ingenuity to link policies for legal labour migration with sustainability efforts in developing countries, from where some of the legal labour may come, for example as guest workers for a period, after which they can return to their home countries with even more resources than they brought with them, which we can then use to actively help prevent illegal migration in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the devil, as we know, is in the details. it's true in politics, and it's true in art, and it's true in politics that affects art and culture. there has been great concern in the cultural world about whether we here in the european parliament could find a way to abolish territorial exclusivity and geoblocking completely. that sounds both old-fashioned and protectionist. well, thankfully, we don't, but that was close. european film and television production flourishes only because its economic foundation can use territorial exclusivity and geo-blocking. does that mean that everyone can't see everything at the same time? yes, it does. but it's worth it! we are talking a lot about the european way of life and what it means to be european in all its national nuances and cultural expressions. this is important at a time when the eu must stand much more on its own in an unpredictable world. here, the eu must ensure that the europe we know and inherit from centuries of history of christianity and democracy royalty and wars is nourished and carried forward by a living cultural landscape. a landscape from which we can continue to harvest high-quality art. in this world, there are both evil devils and good devils. territorial exclusivity and geo-blocking is the last thing on my mind. we must never forget that if we want europe's culture to be remembered in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when you are bottled up in the danish society and university and grew up in a country with high trust and cooperation between the political systems and the many different institutions of civil society, the aarhus regulation may well sound both unnecessary and foreign despite its danish name. except that back home in denmark we have an old tradition of making fun of people from the city of aarhus. today's topic, however, is the eu's alignment with the un's aarhus convention on access to information and democratic participation in decision-making processes on environmental policy. i understand that it has been a very difficult debate and that is the result of what is now on the table. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is good, because it is important to show respect for the backbone of smes, which are the ones who support and nourish the economic muscle that is the very prerequisite for us here in the eu to be ahead of everyone else in the rest of the world in protecting and improving the environment. fortunately, this is the case in denmark and in aarhus already. it is therefore difficult to argue against the fact that it will now also apply throughout the eu. finally, i would also like to commend the part of the text which establishes a register for all those who are not the usual lobbyists. now ngos and various groups of citizens must also identify themselves clearly and transparently. we can all be very pleased that this is not a yearly story.
for the left group. i am not sure that this is the case. nature is in crisis. millions of animal and plant species are at risk of being lost forever if we do not stop this catastrophe. despite the fine words of the eu's 2020 biodiversity strategy, the trend over the last decade has been in the wrong direction. nature can't afford for us to fail again. this is no time for half-measures, declarations of intent or crossed fingers. we need a binding european biodiversity law that puts nature first, that commits us and future politicians to restoring it. we need a european biodiversity council with the leading scientists to shout when someone tries to sneak black agricultural policy in through the back door disguised as nature conservation. we must give nature the space it needs. at least 30% of all marine and terrestrial areas in each member state must be protected, and 10% must be strictly protected. (sound is missing) our best protection against new pandemics. without bees and pollinators, we'll run out of food, we'll run out of trees and we'll run out of natural areas, we'll never meet our climate goals, we'll run out of natural resources if we don't get back to normal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for most people, taking care of nature is both natural and ethical. there is good reason for that. because even though man is basically nature itself, our modern life has been wasting away on the task for far too many years. it is therefore good that the eu is working on strategies and stronger and cross-border cooperation for biodiversity. it is therefore also very sensible that the european parliament now offers our ingredients and contributions. there is simply no reason to do it with our heads in the sand, but that is exactly what we are doing if we ban all recreational hunting and fishing in all particularly vulnerable areas. as if it were those who spend their leisure time in nature with their hearts that are the cause of the problems. they're not a threat. they're the ones who can keep a watchful eye and teach the rest of us how to behave in nature. the future generations in particular must be taught to take up the natural heritage of culture by adults who understand the task in practice and do not merely look at the world from politically correct desks. the ppe therefore proposes amendments which ensure that hunters and fishermen, under controlled conditions, continue to have access to our nature, so that they can help us to bring biodiversity back to health. i can't imagine anyone in this room having any objection to that.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. a little over a month ago, some of europe's most powerful people came together in a common message. we must reduce poverty in europe by 15 million people. but nice goals and nice toasts, we've seen them many times before. indeed, for the last 20 years, one of the eu's main objectives has been to reduce the number of people living in poverty. but we still can't figure it out. we cannot meet those objectives, and time and again europe's leaders have had to realise that they have not put enough action behind the words. again and again they have to report that this time it didn't work out either. we're gonna have to do better than that. it's clear to me why we're not moving anything. we simply do not have the tools to lift people out of poverty, and so we are left with empty words and good intentions and the failure of the one hundred million children, old people, men and women who live on a subsistence level in europe. we must therefore ensure a minimum income directive in the member states and provide a proper safety net to arrest those who have no other choice. i hope we can agree on that here in parliament and in the commission.
mr president, we’re here to discuss online abuse of women in politics, but i want to start somewhere else within our own political parties. in denmark in september 2020 four women – freja fokdal, camilla søe, sigrid friis proschowsky, maria gudme – changed the danish political landscape by no longer accepting being part of the menu for the men in politics. none of the danish political parties thought they had any problems, but they all did. the physical world spills into the online world. women who use their voices in public experience online abuse. every tenth woman in the eu has experienced cyberharassment from as early as the age of 15. the result is women censor themselves, losing their fundamental right of free expression, because they’re met with abuse, because they’re met with online abuse. dear women and girls of the world, we cannot afford to lose your input and your ideas. i’m sorry that we’ve been failing you for way too long, failing you by not taking action against the abuse of women for just being women for way too long. we have a unique chance to take action now. when regulating platforms we must make them face up to their responsibility and help, not hinder, the combat against online abuse of women. and media pluralism should include the voices of women journalists in our democracy action plan.
mr president, i would like to thank you. they're ridiculous. then stick a dick in the mouth of that screaming bitch, bitches who confirm bitches. colleagues, these are just a few examples of the type of language women like us are met with online. if you didn't understand what i said, i can tell you that they were words so offensive that i didn't even know how to translate them. hate speech, harassment, bullying, extortion and image manipulation have become enormous problems online, and unfortunately abuse like this has become commonplace for women online. in the digital world, violations are hard to track and combat and, as we get better at it, perpetrators get better at hiding too. this is why initiatives like the digital services act are so important. if we want to put an end to the abuse women experience online, we need updated european regulation of the internet. i'm really looking forward to working with all of you on this, ensuring that women can have a safe space both in the physical world and in the digital world, because no woman should be afraid to go online to express her opinion or to share her photos. this is the kind of future that i want to fight for, and i hope that all of you will be ready to fight with me.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, many high school graduates and university students face a difficult choice: should they choose a subject they love but perhaps be the only woman in their class? this must be changed to allow women to follow their interests regardless of societal pressures. it must change if we want to achieve our 2030 goal of 20 million ict specialists employed in europe and an acceptable woman to man ratio. if we truly want her to follow her interests we need to start much earlier, already when kids are beginning their education in primary school – definitely much earlier than high school or college. despite the fact that both boys and girls understand technology, there is a difference in the actual interest in technology that they allow themselves to show, because we raise girls and boys differently. because it is not our gender, but our culture and society which determines what we find acceptable to show an interest in. we must allow our young girls to be interested in tech, just like we – from the cradle – promote cars, tools and tech to boys. in denmark, in order to promote gender equality in stem (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), danish municipalities have created an ‘understanding technology’ class, as an elective course in elementary schools. however, in spite of the good intentions, on average these classes have only one girl – one girl – and usually because she likes the teacher, not because she is allowed to show an interest in technology. so we need to start early to allow girls all the way from kindergarten to university to take an interest in an education in tech. we must put a stop to stereotypical gender roles and toxic masculinity. let boys cry and girls play with cars.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we need to get more women into stem. we must do so because the european union is looking for competitiveness, and the survival of the europe we know and want to pass on to the next generation depends on our being able to get something more innovative out of our workforce, which is getting smaller and older in recent years. the most dynamic industries already know this, and the most adaptable companies are fortunately also well on their way to becoming more attractive to women. now the whole of europe must get into gear. otherwise, we lose to our global competitors. china has long seen the light of having women in stem. not because they are particularly gender-oriented, but because women's hands and heads are indispensable if the technological challenges of the future are to be met. china has figured out that it's not good for men to develop the technology that women need, or vice versa, for that matter. so when china can, so must the eu. more women in stem subjects are also important to create better interaction and more respect between the public and private sectors. during the last year of the corona, we have forgotten that money for well-being and health does not grow on trees with permanently low interest rates. more women in stem subjects will therefore also help to maintain the respect for this important mechanism of eu competitiveness.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, the human rights violations in sri lanka are totally unacceptable. unfortunately, the oppression in sri lanka is not new. through decades, the tamils have been deprived of their fundamental rights and freedom. today, we send a clear message from the european parliament to the government of sri lanka: allow access to the un. we need an independent un investigation into the war crimes committed during the end of the civil war with the tamil tigers. the war crimes against the civil tamil population need to be investigated and those responsible for the genocide need to face justice. tens of thousands of tamil families do not know what happened to their loved ones yet. this is unacceptable. the oppression of human rights in sri lanka must end. the oppression of the tamil population must end now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating the swiss people very much on the fact that this did not happen. the point is that this is basically a question of whether or not we want more of the union. if the eu has to decide more about a country that is not even a member of the eu. the swiss have you figured out, and that's your problem. the swiss have found out that the eu is going to go on and on and on. you never get enough. you always want to decide more, and in switzerland you don't want to. i think that makes sense. several of the previous speakers have stood here and lamented that it did not happen. i cannot help thinking how strange it is that this system exhibits so little self-reflection as the situation is. today is the fifth anniversary of the british voting to leave the european union in a referendum. the swiss have now also said that they have no interest in this circus. you don't want to do that. instead of just asking for more and more, think about it. another speaker said that this is what you get for having a national conservative government - and that is absolutely correct. because if you have a national conservative government, it will of course be the guardian of the country, the people and democracy. that's the way it's supposed to be.
mr president, i would like to thank you. can women make decisions? in denmark in 1915, women were given the right to vote. i myself have a law degree from the university of copenhagen and studied public administration at lena in france. i worked in the foreign ministry, rescuing danes during the bombing in lebanon in 2006. in 2013, i removed chemical weapons from syria. why, when it comes to my own body, should i suddenly be unable to make decisions? why should politicians in a parliament be better able to make decisions about my own body than myself and my doctor? former member of this house, lone dybkjær, ensured that equality was written into article 2 of the treaty. we are a community of values in the eu. our values are under attack these days. the report, the tip of the iceberg, shows how the lobbying effort against our rights has quadrupled in the last four years. equality starts with the right to control our own bodies. so vote for the matic report tomorrow - vote for equality.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is a very important day for the citizens of the eu, for the climate and for the green transition. today we are voting on the eu's climate law. it provides a very good starting point for the eu to become climate neutral by 2050, and sets very ambitious targets for 2030. i was responsible for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. it is very important to me that there is a link between the climate law, the land-for-food strategy and the methane strategy. the climate law states that agriculture is part of the solution: to create new green energy sources through the use of residual waste for biogas. biogas will be an important part of the solution in the future. i also hope that agriculture will soon be able to contribute to co2-neutral aviation fuel through a new high-technology. developing the circular economy in europe, storing carbon in the soil and thereby significantly reducing emissions. we need to develop new technology that we don't know today. these things have been given an important place in the new climate law, and i am very proud of that. agriculture has the solution, and farmers are ready to make their contribution to carbon neutral agricultural production by 2050.
i have to say, madam president, we have demonstrated, we have pressed, we have fought, and we have negotiated. we need at least a 65 percent reduction in emissions by 2030. that's what the research shows it takes. yet we are now faced with a proposal for a reduction of only 55 per cent. it's a failure of the paris agreement. the reality is that the european parliament has been swept off the board in these negotiations. the european commission and the governments of the member states are trying to eat us alive with exactly the same proposal that the european commission played with from the start. inadequate climate law will result in inadequate climate action. we cannot accept that. we need a renegotiation of the proposal. that is why i am voting against. that's why the unity list votes against the motion.
for the id group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commissioner said that "europe is no longer in a migration crisis". so let me ask you, commissioner, what planet are you living on? you're completely off your game. europe is in a period of migration and what is being proposed here today will not solve our problems. our widespread problems of mass immigration from the middle east and from africa, which are leaving a very, very unfortunate mark on the europe we love, but which is changing rapidly. it develops into ghettos, social control, domination violence, crime, areas that are completely lawless and out of touch with the scandinavian and european societies. and of course, that's not going to happen in the future. that is why i am also shocked that there is not even a recognition of the existing problems that this continent has. and without the recognition of the problems, there is no possibility of solving them. this system is never going to solve this, and it's honestly disappointing.
i have to say, madam president, it costs money to keep a close eye on the eu's external borders. that is because only with it and our economic muscle can we take good care of the europe and the free and just world which our children will soon inherit. it also costs not yet having curbed the flow of illegal migrants and it costs treating properly foreigners who have fallen into the arms of human traffickers. so there is something good to be said about the asylum and migration fund and the border control fund. but there is no doubt that we cannot simply pay for the problems. fortunately, we are about to see a new package of legislation on migration, and i hope it will contain two things in particular: courage and the means to be active and visible in third countries, from which we can ensure that only people with a real need for protection or a legally agreed mission enter the eu. concrete, effective tools for the rapid return of people who, despite increased efforts at the external borders of third countries, have nevertheless slipped under the radar. if we don't have those tools, we can't pay enough money in the short term. in the long run, there'll be nothing to pay with or for.
madam president, i say to the president of the european council, charles michel, when the european council criticises russia for lack of respect of human rights it mentions alexei navalny, and we all agree that this is important. when the european council criticises belarus for lack of respect of human rights it mentions svetlana tikhanovskaya, and we all agree that this is important. but when the european council, in its conclusion, criticises turkey for the lack of respect of human rights, it does not mention selahattin demirtaş, even though there is a clear judgment from the european court of human rights demanding his immediate release. instead, the european council have decided to move towards an expansion of the customs union with turkey. dear president charles michel, why not mention demirtaş, as you mentioned navalny and tikhanovskaya? i do not understand. are you afraid of president erdoğan? (applause)
mr president, our democracies are choking. their oxygen is being withheld. governments across europe have their hands on the throats of journalists, judges and civil society. we are seeing the gradual dismantling but steep decline of fundamental rights, and not only in hungary. today we discuss a law against lgbti persons adopted by the hungarian parliament, a clear breach of eu values. but also in other countries, politicians have put their hands around the throats of minority groups and are choking them. minorities are the canaries in the coal mine of democracy. when they are persecuted, we know our democracy is in danger. the citizens, civil society and human rights defenders of hungary and poland are rising up in defence of their democracy. but commissioner, where is the commission? presidency, where are the sanctions from the council? talk is cheap. you have the tools to act. we need to see action. the european union is a community of values, not just a common market. that is why we in the european parliament demand action in defence of our democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. every day, thousands of people in europe and the rest of the world are oppressed because of their different sexuality, gender or colour. we must not accept that any country in the european union oppresses minorities. in the eu we have a free internal market for trade. we also need to ensure the freedom to live as one chooses. our european community of values is central. we have to embrace each other's differences. but basic human rights are under attack in both poland and hungary. we see homophobic violence in several countries. i speak from experience. i have a son who's gay. some countries are playing with our democratic principles. democracy is not a given. it's something we're gonna have to work for day and night. we must fight for equal rights and speak out against countries which do not live up to these common values, or else the coffers must be smashed.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i understand that the great ambition of the slovenian presidency is enlargement of the european union. i suggest we put our focus elsewhere. we must tighten up if we are to remain the attractive club of democratic countries which, in a world full of despots and autocrats, is gaining respect and influence through our competitiveness - competitiveness which does not come naturally. the eu's economic muscle is fuelled by research and innovation. we've known that for years. but it seems that the council - our national governments - have forgotten this and have certainly not put it on the agenda often enough and in sufficient detail when they meet. in 2019, only three eu countries spent more than the agreed 3% of gdp on research. most were far below, and some countries, including my own, are keeping to less than three percent by withdrawing national funding when a university is good at getting eu funds. in international comparison, we are lagging behind. it is shameful and it is harmful! so dear new slovenian presidency: put research and innovation high on the agenda now. otherwise, the eu will lose its attractiveness faster than the accession negotiations with new member states can be completed.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, the forced closure of apple daily is unacceptable. media freedom, freedom of speech, as well as freedom of assembly and organising, are fundamental human rights, rights that the people of hong kong are being denied. today our message from the european parliament is clear. we stand in solidarity with the people of hong kong in their fight for democracy and freedom. we stand in solidarity with the political prisoners and the democratic opposition. we call on the eu leaders to act. the european union should impose targeted sanctions against those responsible for human rights violations. carrie lam and those responsible for the oppression and breach of international law in hong kong and mainland china must face the consequences.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is now, when we are still wearing masks in many parts of europe and many countries are still struggling to get vaccinated, that we must agree on how we will never face an epidemic in the same way in shock, panic or distress, and how we in the eu will avoid contributing to the activation of a pandemic. that's the job. it is therefore good that the ecdc, the european centre for disease prevention and control, is now given a stronger mandate so that it can better support the cooperation of the member states and the commission's ability to act when it comes to saving lives and keeping our economic muscle going. ecdc is to help us to be able to count on each other more and better. it should be a matter of course, but it is not when national vanity is at stake and the fear is that someone will be allowed to take something from you that you would rather keep for yourself. so there's plenty for ecdc to work through. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine. perhaps it will prove better for the eu's defence against cross-border communicable diseases to focus on them and not on all the other possible ones. if necessary, my more federally-minded colleagues must not get involved in the ideological details. the eu all around the member states must be ready for the next pandemic. i am voting for that, of course!
i have to say, madam president, no right to a day's pay, no right to a pension, no protection if the accident is out. this is the reality for millions of european employees working on digital platforms. that's the reality of the bids at wolt. this is the reality for the drivers of nemlig.com. while the owners have made billions and billions during the coronavirus crisis, the waiters, drivers and cleaners have been working in miserable conditions. too many employers hide behind the digital veil of the platforms. they deny their employees basic rights. they even deny them the right to join a trade union when they falsely claim that their employees are self-employed. so my message to the employers behind the digital veil at nemlig.com and at wolt today is clear: stop using fake self-employed, give your employees the rights they deserve. respect the right to organize!
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is no task more important for the eu than the climate. this was the case before the corona crisis, it is still the case, and the latest un climate report underlines this with an ever-shorter target. the eu received its first climate law this spring. now the tools must be sharpened and new ones designed. we're not gonna be able to avoid the left-wing noise in the room. that is also fine, as long as you do not destroy the tools and unnecessarily drag out time, because there is no more important task for the eu than the climate. it is also important for the rest of the world, which looks to the eu for solutions on both technologies, new ways of structuring society so that everyone can live the life he or she wants, and not least how the transition can take place without the social impact and the destruction of competitiveness. the last thing is important. it's crucial to be able to afford the transition, because without money, it's going to hurt, or it's going to be impossible. we need to give businesses of all industries and all sizes the tools they need to contribute to the green transition. we must avoid unnecessary strain and we must create effective incentives and ensure a predictable regulatory landscape for the years ahead. we are! - what? let's get this show on the road!
i have to say, madam president, common foreign policy, the right to asylum for the many people who might wish it, or a determined european army. this is one of the creative proposals put forward by members of the european parliament in this debate, amongst others, as the lesson to be drawn from 20 years of war in afghanistan. i have to say it. that is so naive. i cannot believe that this house really believes that the european union is capable of solving the problems of the whole world. the eu is not even capable of solving its own problems. my conclusion and my message today must be very clear: we must never repeat 2015. we must never see a situation in which a huge flow of people is coming directly through europe, blocking our motorways and making europeans worried and frightened - and rightly so. we must never allow this situation to recur. we have to get the continent ready. we're going to build a fence. we have to build walls. we need to secure our borders. we have to protect our people. we must look after europe. let us build fort europe.
i have to say, madam president, bags of women in the street. violence against journalists. political opponents disappearing at the hands of the taliban. these are the images we see from afghanistan. the taliban's darkened mullah regime has descended upon the country. the war in afghanistan has not only cost thousands of billions, but has also caused death, destruction and scars to the souls of soldiers, their families and, not least, the civilian population of afghanistan. democracy is not built on bombs. the war in afghanistan was a failure. the eu's response should not be militarization but a stronger commitment to peace and international law. right now, the brave afghan women, journalists and human rights defenders are in dire need of our solidarity. afghan refugees should not be met with barbed wire and walls, but with protection and a solidarity-based distribution of refugees arriving in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think there is no member of this parliament who would object to the fact that the countries of europe can attract highly qualified workers, which we urgently need. they could be doctors, they could be engineers. but you do not have to have listened to commissioner johansson for many minutes to understand the danger that lurks just below the surface. it is not many months ago that this parliament adopted a report on new ways of legal labour migration, in which parliament called for more immigration of labour from africa, the middle east and asia, and that was not doctors and engineers, that was unskilled labour. we are now faced with a total dilution of a directive, so that family reunification will now be easier, so that migrants and asylum seekers will have more reasons to seek europe. commissioner, i am of course going to vote against this. i am against the proposal and the concessions, but i am also aware of the policy you are trying to impose on the countries of europe. i am sorry, commissioner, but we have seen through your failed policy, and the worst part of it all is that you are trying to repeat the horrors of sweden. in denmark, we don't want to be sweden. we don't want your problems. we don't want your politics.
mr president, president ursula von der leyen talks about the need for a socially just transition. but what is the reality? tens of thousands of construction workers risk losing their lives in the green transition if protections against the deadly asbestos do not go hand in hand with the renovation wave of millions of buildings in europe. i thought the commission was committed to a vision of zero work—related deaths. but yesterday, i, as a rapporteur on the asbestos file, received this letter from the commission warning against the lowering of the limit value, even though we all know this will save lives. we do not need sweet words on a socially just transition – we need action!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the president of the commission spoke of an eu strategy for our care sector, military cooperation that sounds like an eu army, and financing proposals that come from own resources - eu taxes and levies. that was one of the points made in the president's speech. i completely understand why the british chose to leave this place, sign out and slam the door wide open. what the european commission is apparently going to give the member states even more of are migrants whom we do not want and have never invited. the president of the commission said that an eu migration policy is about trust, and that is true. i agree with that, but i have no confidence in the president of the commission, in the commission or in the european system. i want law and order. this place is a political mess. i want to stop migration, but the eu will only redistribute it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european community has always been characterized by its love of debate, discussion and exploratory dialogue. for thousands of years, we have cultivated disagreements and constantly challenged each other on the facts. we europeans have created the concept of pluralism in respect of the fact that there is often more than one view of something. pluralism has developed our democracy, and pluralism is at the heart of the dna of free research and innovation that for hundreds of years has put europe at the forefront of most industries and created our economic strength, enabling us to meet the complex challenges of our time while still being able to afford to protect our values. the free media is an absolute key to opening up the complicated debates, following them to the door and, in the process, helping to make different voices, opinions and truths heard. free media ensures that the workshops of democracy are challenged, listened to, and that decisions are sustainable, robust and, not least, meaningful to those affected by them. the polish government's hesitant approach to its forthcoming media law is therefore far from european and far from in line with the values of the eu and the wording of the treaty. and it's incredibly stupid, because pressure breeds back pressure. to imagine that the polish european population will accept the paranoid premise behind the text of the media law is simply too stupid. let us therefore send them our full support to continue this counter-pressure.
mr president, it’s not all algorithms or artificial intelligence that are problematic, but predictive profiling and risk assessment artificial intelligence and automated decision—making systems are weapons of mass destruction. they are as dangerous for our democracy as nuclear bombs are for living creatures and life. they will destroy the fundamental rights of each citizen to be equal before the law and in the eye of our authorities. it is not only a question of getting the technology good enough. we must not allow mass surveillance to strip us of our most fundamental rights as citizens, for example the right to unite in demonstrations in public spaces. madam commissioner, thank you for underlining the need for modern tools for our judicial authorities. but where is the legal framework that will ensure strict safeguards against misuse and strict democratic control and oversight?
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, this report is especially important in light of the shadow pandemic following the covid pandemic, where we’ve seen a massive rise in violence against women – just because they are women – across the eu. we must prevent intimate partner violence in all its forms. it’s not only a question of a black eye, a broken rib or a broken arm. violence is often psychological before it becomes physical and it can take very insidious forms. it can also continue after the end of the relationship and we must not allow our children to be weaponised. the continued violence through custody rights and visitation rights must not be permitted, just as withholding such rights for the other parent must not be allowed to be used as a weapon. as renew shadow on the committee on legal affairs (juri), i would like to underline the importance of this right for women and children, examining the impact of intimate partner violence and custody rights on women and children. the report examines the incompatibility of shared custody and unsupervised visits in the case of intimate partner violence, owing to the severe consequences for women and children, including the risks of extreme acts of femicide and infanticide. it calls for mandatory and targeted training for judicial and law enforcement officers and the establishment of specialised courts and judicial officers within the member states, because femicide and infanticide follow a pattern and, if we recognise this pattern, we can save lives.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by saying that i am very grateful for the great contribution the united states has made to the world and in particular to europe. where would europe have been without the very, very large american contribution during world war i, world war ii or the cold war? we have an infinite amount to thank the americans for. they are our most important and most important partners in the world, and beyond that they are our good friends. we're connected historically, culturally, and so on. that is why i also noted when one of my colleagues in this parliament was up here earlier saying that our relationship - that is to say, implicitly europe's relationship - with the united states will not be as important as it was before. it would be a great shame if it turned out to be a tie, because we need each other. europe needs the united states, and the united states needs europe in the sense that we are the same civilization. we can discuss this deal, all sorts of things about plastic and abortion and criminal law and taxes and internet giants and all sorts of other things. but that aside, the political content aside, there is one thing that is decisive, and that is what kind of civilization is going to shape the world in the coming decades. if it's the west, we'll have to stick together. or are we willing to hand that leadership over to china or any other country that might have the courage to do so? so we need america more than ever, but i also hope that after all, the americans need us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is no doubt that lukashenko is an undemocratic despot. not only is he oppressing his own people, he is also a latent threat directed at europe. lukashenko, he's learned from the worst thugs out there. he has learned from erdogan: he has seen what has worked for him vis-à-vis the eu, vis-à-vis europe, and that has been to put pressure on the external borders. mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report, which has been very useful and very useful in this respect. and now lukashenko is going to do exactly the same. this system is not responding. if it reacts, it always reacts too late. the highlight of this situation has been the reaction of, among others, poland, lithuania and latvia, which have very ambitiously started to secure their own borders. i have great respect and pleasure in the fact that some nation states are taking the lead in a situation where the eu is clearly not aware of its responsibilities. if the eu is to show solidarity, it must show solidarity with poland, lithuania and latvia. solidarity must be shown, by ensuring that they can control their borders and close the external eu border so that we can put this situation to rest. we must take the tools from the despots and we must not accept that people outside europe's borders control the flows into europe. this is completely unacceptable. there was a hungarian member of parliament in the chair earlier who said that everyone in brussels was hacking at hungary when hungary secured the external border. and i would say to that member of parliament that not everyone in brussels is against hungary. i think that hungary is a great pioneer country in the field of external border security, and i would like to thank the hungarian colleagues for that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. right now, refugees are dying on the border between the eu and belarus. people desperately fleeing war and oppression are met with crippling barbed wire and push-backs. it is not only inhuman, it is a clear violation of the right to seek asylum. while the socialist government in spain has stopped the use of barbed wire on the border with morocco, the socialist government in denmark is gladly sending the same kind of deadly barbed wire to lithuania. it's a shame, you know? we will not solve the refugee crisis by breaking international conventions. we don't stop people from escaping by mutilating them. we must and must meet people on the run with humanity and with a solidarity-based distribution of the refugees who come to europe.
for the ppe group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. a defense is no stronger than the weakest link. that rule is both banal and vital. covid-19 taught us that the hard way, and it is the eu's most noble task to take all the lessons we have learned and do something about them. we have done very, very well because we have the instruments in the member states and in the cooperation between the eu institutions and in a strong life science sector. but we're gonna have to do better than that. we were not properly dressed. our binoculars weren't sharp enough, and they didn't see far enough. we have to say that supply and demand for critical biomedical needs were not in sync and were too heavy in the gear shift. we have therefore recognised that we can learn from the united states, which, on the ruins of 11 september 2001, set about making sure that they were never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, that is why it is crucial that we get used to sleeping with our boots on in the eu. the boots here are called hera, so they're going to be the ones that ensure that we're fully prepared for any cross-border health emergency, and that we're ready with all the relevant and necessary responses. it is therefore good that the commission has started what should develop into a strong and independent agency. everything else is too vague and risks becoming the object of mistrust and lack of efficiency and value. we must avoid that with hera. we europeans and the many businesses that depend on a health crisis not destroying health, jobs, the cohesion of the eu and the single market must be able to sleep well at night knowing that hera really works. it requires a recognition built on broad democratic support. this means, of course, that the european parliament must be involved in the design of a hera agency. if not, we risk hera becoming the unforeseen weakest link in our common crisis preparedness for a new pandemic, and we cannot afford to lose that support for the eu once again. the epp therefore wants to say in today's debate that the commission must continue its work with hera. the provisional boots must be in place, but there must be an end date for the commission to go on with the task alone, and a political design process must be put forward which involves parliament as co-legislator. that is what we do in democracies, and the eu must show that we are champions here too.
madam president, as a dane i find it essential to ensure environmental protection, sustainable development and reduction of geopolitical military tensions in the arctic. unfortunately this parliament has a history of overstepping our competences when it comes to the arctic. we must not only accept but promote the voices of the people living in the arctic to ensure that arctic policy is made in and with the arctic. i regret to see parallels made to russian aggressions in other parts of europe. this suggests that this parliament mainly sees the arctic as an instrument to further our own interests elsewhere. the exaggerated emphasis on geopolitical tensions is counterproductive for international cooperation in the arctic, which is exactly what this report calls for. in fact, maritime border disputes in the arctic have been settled peacefully. as we must promote dialogue with the people of greenland and the faroes islands, i welcome the work looking forward to establish a permanent eu presence in greenland and the faroe islands, in cooperation with the danish government. thanks too to the members of the foreign affairs committee for their successful visit to denmark and greenland.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for the last word, which should be that many of my colleagues have already said it very clearly, so i will just say it very briefly: the eu must be more active and visible in the arctic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this can and should be done in many different ways. several have already been mentioned, and i would just like to point to innovation and research cooperation because the arctic needs it, and because the eu is usually good at it, and because it will be in line with the strong ties that historically and constitutionally exist between the arctic and the eu. at the moment, the eu is being overtaken in the arctic by china and russia, which are certainly not burdened by love for genuine european and rule-of-law values. i would add that in the long run it is extremely dangerous for europe if the eu does not also, in cooperation with the arctic, re-train its own innovative muscle. there are plenty of options. the arctic is an obvious place for the development of green technologies. the eu's horizon europe research programme has the instruments. use them, even in the arctic!
i have to say, madam president, energy prices are rising. gas and oil are getting more expensive every week. the fact that the eu must get on with the task of achieving an energy union, that we must be self-sufficient in green and clean energy, is being emphasized with alarming brutality. the concerns of potentially hundreds of thousands of families and businesses are growing, and here the european parliament must focus on solutions that work as quickly as possible. one of the most effective solutions is energy efficiency, because the best energy is the one we do not use and therefore do not have to pay for. it's forcing down energy prices. in addition, energy efficiency is also the most cost-effective tool to achieve the eu's climate goals. two birds with one stone. but there's a third fly that needs to go. energy poverty is also about the fear of losing your job and thus the ability to pay for fixed basic expenses. here too, energy efficiency is the tool that has been proven to create more jobs and strengthen the eu's competitiveness. there is therefore the potential for a major hat-trick in terms of more energy efficiency in the eu, and we should of course take advantage of this.
i have to say, madam president, rising energy prices, and in particular gas prices, are affecting consumers across europe. the spaniard who bought an electric car and put it in the charger. the romanian who must have warmed up his house. the dane who lights the meat grill. we are facing a situation which could be fatal, and in some cases it means that you have to choose between heating your house or having a hot dinner. of course, that is completely untenable. we have a market, but it is not self-evident that everyone is playing fair in the market. i think the european commission must have a serious talk with russia, because why is it that russian gas imports are falling when we need it most and when we are willing to pay for it? the eu must make greater demands, strengthen market rules and ensure that those who produce gas do not use it politically. i think, first of all, that this crisis shows that we need a strong green transition. this crisis is not caused by too much green transition, it is caused by too little. that is why i think it is absolutely absurd to listen to those who accuse the green pact of being responsible for this situation. on the contrary, i think so. we need to increase renewable energy because it is cheaper, and we need to increase energy efficiency. every time we increase energy efficiency by one percent, gas imports fall by 2.6 percent. so let us take this as a sign that we need to make a strong agreement on the fit for 55 package under the green pact.
mr president, i would like to thank you. should the eu have an asylum agency instead of the current so-called asylum support office? many people - who are naturally concerned about the increased influx of illegal migrants and many of the problems that unfortunately exist in far too many member states due to the failed integration of asylum seekers and the return of those who have neither a need for protection nor have entered the right door into the european labour market - will certainly ask more questions of concern. if the eu now creates an asylum agency and thereby professionalises and improves cooperation in the field of asylum, does that create more challenges? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe. yes, that is the question. the far right in this chamber will say that, because it is your position - whatever the hell is on the agenda - to foster distrust of the european union as a whole. the same, but with a different tone, will be said by the far left, because they too want to get rid of the eu and throw europe into the multicultural blender as a step towards global, communist nirvana. neither side will be right, but until we see it, your claims can help to destroy the constructive cooperation that can get the agency up and running, so that it can clean up all the holes and flaws in the current way asylum processing is done around the eu. because right now it's not working! and the changes that can protect europe from the negative and directly dangerous elements of migration are all too slow. too many people are coming into the eu too easily, and too many are coming out of the eu too slowly. this is a challenge that a strong and proactive asylum agency can handle far better than the current support office, which dates from a time when the refugee and migration pressures on the eu were of a size and severity that could be overestimated. unfortunately, we're not there today.
i have to say, madam president, as a farmer, i am very proud of our work in the soil-to-table strategy. we are setting the tone for european food production and consumption for many years to come. for me, it has been crucial that the strategy be both sustainable and competitive. i've fought for very ambitious targets for agricultural use of pesticides, fertilisers and antibiotics and we're going to halve food waste by 2030. the soil-to-table strategy should focus on all parts of the food chain. from the farmer in the field, the animals in the stable, the shopkeepers in the supermarket and the food that ends up on the kitchen table of european families. i am a firm believer in a green and european food production in the future. and technology is going to play a major role in the transformation of agriculture. and this is where the new genetic technology crispr is a very important part. we're already well on our way. we must not push our good food production out of the eu. everyone must take responsibility and contribute to the green transition - including the farmer. the future legislation must be based on impact assessment, and our core task is and will remain to produce good and healthy food. all high quality and with a focus on animal welfare. the land-to-table strategy is helping to ensure that.
i have to say, madam president, i've told you before from this place. we are getting fewer and fewer, we are getting older and older and we are getting fatter and fatter in the eu. almost 60% of all eu citizens over the age of 18 are either in the early stages of severe obesity or are already severely overweight. it is therefore good that the eu's 'soil to table' or farm2fork strategy has as a key objective to reduce overweight by 30%. serious obesity simply threatens our quality of life, our health care capacity, and our economic resilience, combined with declining birth rates and increasing life expectancy. it is therefore also good that the 'soil to table' strategy is now seriously introducing declarations of goods in the internal market which inform us about both health and sustainability. of course, they must be based on evidence and facts, and this must be followed up with knowledge and education about nutrition and obesity so that individuals can use the label in ways that support their individual needs. otherwise we will never be healthier and stronger and that burden will not be carried by the next generation.
i'm the reporter. i would like to thank the president-in-office. asbestos is a deadly substance. asbestos is killing people. if you have any doubts, ask dan henriksen. dan is 45 years old. he's the father of two daughters. he's a plumber. he works in the city. twenty years ago, he was exposed to asbestos in his student days. in recent years, he has been terminally ill. he does not know if he will live long enough to see his youngest daughter graduate from elementary school or to see his oldest daughter party with her friends when she graduates from high school. a single exposure to asbestos has put dan henriksen and his family in this terrible situation, and unfortunately he is far from the only victim of the deadly asbestos. in 2019 alone, more than 90 000 eu citizens died from asbestos-related diseases. many people mistakenly believe that the problem of asbestos is a thing of the past, after the total ban in the eu in 2005. but the asbestos threat is not gone. the number of victims is increasing. 80% of the buildings in the eu were built before the total ban. that is why the number of asbestos victims will continue to rise if we do not act. we're at a crossroads right now. we are facing the green renovation wave of millions of buildings in europe. it is absolutely crucial to ensuring the necessary climate action. it will create jobs and it will mean savings on the electricity bill. but it risks the lives of the construction workers who are carrying it out. we can choose to continue as before. then tens of thousands will lose their lives in the years to come. or we can choose to make a green and socially just transition, where those who are doing the climate renovations don't lose their lives. we need to make sure that climate action and better occupational health and safety go hand in hand. that is what i propose in my report. that is what you, colleagues, are going to vote on. we need an update of the current limit values for asbestos. recent research shows that even the slightest exposure to asbestos can be fatal. therefore, the limit value should be lowered. we need mandatory screening for asbestos before renovation so that construction workers do not inadvertently enter a death sentence. we need to register all buildings with asbestos so construction workers, firefighters and residents are alerted. we need a ban on encapsulation so that we do not leave a death trap for future generations, and we need thorough and compulsory training for all construction workers in the handling of asbestos. the vote here in the european parliament will have life-and-death consequences across europe. human life should not be a matter between right and left. it should bring us all together. an ambitious european strategy for the elimination of all asbestos in europe has been presented. let's all take a historic step together to ensure that parents like dan don't have to fear if they're going to see their children's last day of school. let us do our part to ensure that europe's construction workers are present at the birthdays and weddings of their children and grandchildren. let's take a decisive step towards creating a socially just green transition where no one has to die from going to work.
i'm the reporter. i am not sure that this is the case. thank you very much for your strong support for ambitious action against asbestos. i know that there are many construction workers, firefighters and asbestos victims who have followed today's debate. i am sure they are pleased with the broad support here in the european parliament. we need action against asbestos. we owe that to dan henriksen. we owe it to all the construction workers in europe. we must do so if our words of social justice and green transition are to be made a reality. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs in particular for the fantastic cooperation we have had across the political groups in this process. we have come together on an ambitious and broad compromise and i would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the really, really good spirit of cooperation we have had. it's been a great pleasure. i would like to thank the rapporteurs of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the committee on the internal market for the good input they have given. and i would like to endorse, commissioner, the promises of action that the commission has made here today. i am sure that i am not only speaking for myself but also for my shadow rapporteurs from the other groups and hopefully for a huge majority in the european parliament tomorrow when we say that we are going to keep you to the promises and we will hopefully soon have a report with a clear-cut offer on how we can have a european strategy for the removal of all asbestos in europe. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal and how it should be formulated. all the parts of this report are essential if we are to protect europe's construction workers and europe's citizens from the deadly asbestos. so, dear commission, we are going to follow up on action. we expect you to listen to our lofty ambitions. we expect you to deliver, and we look forward to a very good cooperation on implementation.
mr president, poland, like every member state, is bound to guarantee that all its national courts are impartial and independent. we must note, however, that the polish constitutional tribunal is no longer a court in the sense of a judicial body. its decisions are more correctly to be understood as a polish government statement by a different channel. ‘a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.’ however, court does not become a court just by being named a court. the constitutional tribunal is but a political tool for the polish government. we saw a year ago, when it removed the right for polish women to get the health care they need to decide over their own bodies. why, prime minister, do you claim to respect the primacy of union law without acknowledging the role of the european court of justice as its final arbiter? prime minister, why do you stand in the very house of the european parliament while you deny its political and democratic legitimacy? i would like to conclude with one remark. the rules of the game must be the same for all. poland is seeking to take germany to the court of justice. i look forward to seeing poland take hungary to the european court of justice. or are the rules of the game not the same for all countries?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking charlie weimers of the ecr group for the excellent work he has presented to us today and which we are discussing here today. this is a very important case. taiwan is a friend. it is a democracy, and these are people with whom we share values on a very fundamental level. i recently had the pleasure of visiting taiwan. it was an incredibly strange experience on the one hand to visit such a friendly country - and i dare say a country that wanted so much good for the world and at the same time was so incredibly threatened by communist china just across the water. we must never doubt that they are our friends, and they must never doubt that they are our friends, and they must be our friends at all costs. china's aggression against taiwan, but also against hong kong, which is being politically brought to its knees, or tibet, which was subjugated many years ago, is completely unacceptable. we must make that very clear from the other side. it is not just something we have to do in europe. we shall do so with some of our best friends, the americans. we must stand together in western civilization and defend our friends wherever they are in the world, whoever threatens them out there.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in 1991 the world's first offshore wind farm was built. it was called the city of the winds, and it was located off the coast of lolland - a small island in denmark. at the time, many thought it was completely insane to support such projects. it would require massive state subsidies, it couldn't even get around financially without help. today we've come a long way. we're building offshore wind farms, even energy islands in the north sea, and offshore wind can compete with fossil energy, and in many cases, it can beat fossil energy on price. but when you develop new technology, it requires support and help in the beginning, and that's why it's a long-term investment to support energy, sustainable energy, so that we can meet our climate commitments. today, we need new technologies in particular, such as renewable hydrogen and carbon capture and storage. renewable hydrogen, which allows us to fly and transport in a sustainable way, and carbon capture and storage, which allows us to reduce co2 emissions from, among other things, heavy industry. i think it is reasonable that the commission and the commissioner are putting forward new rules on state aid for renewable energy and energy efficiency. as rapporteur on the energy efficiency directive, i would say that it is also really important to support a major source of reducing our co2. but i will point the finger at the commission and the commissioner as well and say that it is very important that we do not support fossil fuels. low carbon, hydrogen rather than renewable hydrogen. don't fall into the trap of shutting ourselves down, locking ourselves into a fossil energy system that's going to cost us dearly in the long run. it hopes that the commission will join in.
for the left group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. it was historic when the un human rights council last week recognized the right to a healthy and sustainable environment as a fundamental right of all human beings. the un resolution must of course have consequences in the eu. we should follow the decision. all around us, the climate and biodiversity are rapidly collapsing. for the people of the maldives, it will be a question of whether they are the future of the land on which to live. for the indigenous peoples of the amazon, the question of whether they will continue to have a livelihood becomes a question. there should be no doubt that human rights and environmental protection are inextricably linked. in denmark, a right to a healthy environment could mean that everyone has a fundamental right to have their drinking water not contaminated. the right to a healthy environment should be a human right for everyone.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the glasgow climate summit will hopefully result in far more and far better international agreements than the 2019 madrid summit. the corona gave us an extra year of preparation - a year that hopefully hasn't been wasted. cop 26 is about how we reach the paris agreement. in particular, it is about getting joint agreements in place and on the calendar. and so cop 26 is about inspiring each other by doing what we can do individually, much better together. and we can actually make the european parliament's decision even better and more result-oriented. we can all vote for amendment no 15, so it will be woven into the text we take to scotland. the proposal is now in danger of losing the so-called green and business-friendly support of renew, and further to the left in the chamber, yes, i hear that the amendment and the good idea of a climate co2 label are not liked because they do not come from yourselves. i swear to god! that is not how we are going to win the climate fight, so throw away the vanity and support amendment no 15. so the eu is proposing to the world that we join forces to develop a co2 labelling system that provides clear and credible information on the climate footprint of products. evidence-based and fully research-based life cycle assessments of course include a co2 labelling that removes green washing from all commerce once and for all. that is what is needed, so vote for amendment no 15 now! all of you!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the cop26 meeting in glasgow is the most important meeting in the world. this is the opportunity to raise our ambition, to do more to reduce co2 emissions. we know that the present effort is totally inadequate. at the current rate of progress, according to the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change, we will be heading for a temperature rise of over three degrees by the end of this century. that would be disastrous, and that's why we need to take this opportunity. one of the first things we have to do - and one of the things i think is absolutely necessary to achieve at cop 26 - is to phase out subsidies for fossil fuels. we know that every minute - every minute - according to the international monetary fund, nine million euros are given in aid to coal power, in aid to fossil energy. in 2018, €50 billion was given to fossil energy in subsidies. we need to phase that out. the eu must lead the way. we have to push to stop this coal-fucking thing.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the reduction of methane is extremely important because what we decide today, we can see the results of tomorrow. as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, i would like to thank the other committees for the wonderful cooperation we have had on this report. my mantra has been that we should reduce methane emissions, not production. it is absolutely essential to me that we do not push agricultural production out of the eu. it will only increase the climate burden. that is why we must focus on new technology, innovation, which can reduce methane emissions. it is absolutely necessary that we use all the tools in the toolbox. for example, new feed additives that can reduce methane emissions from cows. we also need to improve the use of our manure for biogas. here the new technological developments around bio-charging will really push us in the right direction. in this way, agricultural residues can be used to produce renewable energy, green energy. it's a win-win situation for farmers and for the climate. i am very optimistic that we will find the solutions that are needed to achieve our methane targets. the strategy emphasises that agriculture is part of the solution to the climate challenge.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, equality is a fundamental value of the european union, and equality starts with our right to decide over our own bodies. this parliament debated the undermining of the rule of law in poland, at length, yesterday. our debate today and the debate yesterday are linked. today, we debate the decision one year ago by the unconstitutional constitutional tribunal, which flies in the face of the right for equality. the backlash against gender equality and equal rights for lgbtiq are directly linked to the rule of law. our defence of rule of law starts with the defence of minority rights and gender equality. over the last five years, the polish government has abandoned the values that unite europe. minorities have been under attack, the rule of law has been under attack and women’s bodies have been under attack. our democracies are in danger when minorities and women come under attack. when miners went into the coalmines, they brought along canary birds so that they could be warned when the miners were in danger. minorities and women are the canaries in the coalmine of democracy. but are you listening? have we heard that they’ve stopped singing? the right to abortion should not be a political battle, but the polish government has made it into an ideological battleground. human rights defenders are receiving threats, harassment and intimidation from their own government, trying to silence them. therefore, it is important to show them that they are not alone and to show the polish government that the rest of europe is watching. the right to abortion has slowly but surely been stolen from polish women. thank you to the member states providing supports to these polish women. i’ll conclude by saying that the fight of polish women for their rights is also my fight. i am not free and equal until all women in europe are free and equal.
for the id group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. there are fences, there are checks, there are armed police around this parliament, and that is good. because if there are troublemakers or anyone who wants to harm us, who are trying to get in, then of course they have to be stopped. i have never heard any of you complain about the security of this house. and let me ask you: why should not the same security apply to the whole of europe and to the citizens of europe? why do you not think that europe should be better protected with fences, with controls and with armed guards, so that we can stop people from just wading into europe? why do fences and controls work when it comes to protecting parliament and our staff, but not when it comes to protecting europe and its people? i dream of a day when a majority in this house will protect europe as much as you would protect the european parliament, where fences and controls and pushbacks and law and order trump your double standards and political correctness. let us protect europe. let us build fort europe.
madam president, i am enjoying the fact that i’m able to take this point of order by being here physically, but i am not enjoying the fact that member states are reinstating security measures against covid-19. i travelled here the day after the danish prime minister said that we would look into reinstating the use of the covid pass, for example, in denmark. at the same time, we are now sitting elbow to elbow in this room and travelling from all across europe. i think it is worrying that we as a house are reducing restrictions and protection for ourselves and our populations, as europe is going towards rising cases. also, where are the lessons learned from the last year and a half? why are we no longer using hybrid modes of working, and why are we no longer using remote voting?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by saying a very big thank you to poland. poland is doing what many other countries in europe should have done many years ago, namely securing its borders and doing what is necessary, because of course we cannot accept that millions of people potentially migrate into the european continent and fundamentally change our countries. so much for poland. thank you to poland for looking after the rest of us. what is most unacceptable is that in all this discussion about borders, one of the things that the eu could actually be used for was to finance the fence, because we need the fence. we need walls. we need controls, because of course we need to know who is coming into our countries. i cannot believe that there was a member here who said that we should not have that at all. we couldn't even discuss that. but tell me, will any of you please not lock your front door at night? who won't protect your own family? i don't think he did. why should our countries not have the same good protection? why don't we lock the door to our own countries and decide for ourselves who we want to let in? walls, fences and controls - that's the way forward. one member said that only a strong eu can secure our borders or something like that, and i have to say that that is not true. we have been members, my country denmark has been a member, of the european union for many years, and the european union has never done anything serious to secure our borders. when we became part of schengen, we were promised that the external borders would be protected, and that was the basis for the closure of our national borders. it didn't hold up. the external borders have been wide open for many years. millions of people have migrated in, and you're more busy criticizing poles and others who have national border controls. i thought that was out of the question.
for the left group. i am not sure that this is the case. we are currently experiencing a race to the bottom in european jobs. foreign colleagues are cynically exploited, discriminated against and underpaid by greedy employers who want to squeeze wages and working conditions for all of us. this is completely unacceptable. social dumping must and must be fought! let us use the new digital possibilities to make it easier for the labour inspectorate and the trade union movement to enforce compliance with the legislation in force and workers' rights. let us take a firm stand against employers who cheat and create a fair mobility system where no foreign colleagues are exploited. let us secure the rights of all migrant workers in the eu through a digital id card. it'll stop the race to the bottom. this will effectively put an end to social dumping.
for the ppe group. the pharmaceutical strategy is a report. it is not legislation yet on medicines for the needs of europeans and on how we ensure that the pharmaceutical industry chooses the eu as the base for its activities. that is why this is an important report which says a lot about what we want the pharmaceutical industry to continue to do and to do more. it is also the easy part of the political craft. the difficult part is to point out how the companies should be able to deliver what we ask for. for me, who worked on itre's contribution to the report, there is no doubt that the report's main task is to ensure that the pharmaceutical industry and the thousands of smes that belong to it continue to choose the eu as their home in the future. for the sake of the patients, for the sake of the many jobs and, not least, for the sake of the economy. the pharmaceutical industry is pouring money into the coffers of the state every year, which we simply cannot do without if we are to be able to do all that we also promise to the citizens. i would therefore have liked the report to have been a little more specific about the business conditions that the eu offers the pharmaceutical industry in the future. because, to be honest, i didn't think it did. on the contrary, the report is unclear where it applies: the future protection of patents and other business incentives. that's the problem. this is also a broad concept, since for most industries ip rights are crucial when choosing where to locate their business or investments. it is time for the european parliament to understand this logic before we rush into legislation. the opportunity is there now and i think we should use it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we finally adopt the long-awaited agricultural reform after three years of negotiations. the new cap from '23 will ensure that we have good, healthy and competitive food in europe. the agricultural reform also significantly strengthens food security. i am quite proud that we are also adopting today the gross regional product model, which has been one of my main subjects in the agricultural negotiations. at the same time, the agricultural reform is a major step towards a greener and more sustainable agriculture in europe. agriculture and the green transition are not opposites. we're proving that today. it is the greenest agricultural reform ever adopted in europe. it is the greenest agricultural reform ever adopted in the world. we farmers have to grow something other than grain, grass and corn. we also need to cultivate biodiversity. 40% of the agricultural budget will go to environmental causes. farmers can and will deliver. the agreement provides an economic incentive and the means to give even more impetus to the green transition which is so important, also without having to compromise our production. the strategic plans ensure greater flexibility in the member states, and this is very important because there is a huge difference between sicily in the south and finland in the north. so we must have some national self-determination in relation to the future environmental measures in the agricultural sector. and last but not least, the agricultural reform provides clarity for our colleagues across europe and secures their future.
madam president, right now there is an urgent humanitarian crisis at the eu border to belarus. people are dying in the freezing cold. even families with small children are being met with brutal force. refugees are being denied their basic human rights. is this the europe we want? do we want to compete with lukashenko in a race to the bottom on human rights? no, we won’t. we need to evacuate the people trapped at the border. we need to stand up for the right to seek asylum, and we need to deal with dictators like lukashenko through targeted sanctions and political pressure, not by forcing children to sleep in the deadly cold. we need a european response based on solidarity and human rights.
for the id group. i am not sure that this is the case. it is always an experience to be in this house and to listen to the debates. and i must say, you are so naive! while we have border guards, heroes, in poland doing everything they can to protect our external borders and limit migration to europe, this parliament is discussing how to increase migration and how to attract more migrants. and you're not just talking about migrants, you're talking about unskilled labor. we're not talking about doctors and engineers. we're talking about unskilled labor. if this house is so concerned about us getting more unskilled migrants into work, then you can start by looking out at the ghettos that are filled with migrants who are not doing anything to benefit this continent. i have to say, i'm shocked. the commissioner is the one who shocks me the most. europe is an ageing continent. but hey! your immigration is a deficit. "we are all migrants", says the commissioner. that's some bullshit. and then the commissioner ends by saying, "migrants must respect our values". yes, of course they do. but it's a little late to come and tell you. look at sweden. look at belgium. look at the suburbs of france. this is 20 years too late. it's too little, and it's too bad. we don't want your immigration. we want secure borders, and we don't want any more unskilled migrants who can't contribute to this continent.
mr president, i would like to thank you. have you ever tried to get a job done by your boss without a deadline or a deadline far, far into the future? it's a task you just have to solve when it's convenient. we all know what risks such a task could entail. it's being downgraded. every time the boss asks if it's on the stairs, you're immediately on to something else, and the task may end up not being solved. unfortunately, cop26 shows that some countries in the world are treating the climate crisis as such a task. russia and china will be climate neutral by 2060, india by 2070. but it is our actions over the next 10 years that will determine whether we are able to keep the temperature increases to a maximum of one and a half degrees celsius. these are not goals for 2070. at the current rate of progress, we are heading for a temperature increase of 2.4 degrees. it's a world of floods, droughts, hundreds of millions of climate refugees. i don't want that to happen. the eu was a very positive actor at the cop and a role model. but the eu should use its economic muscle as the world's largest trading bloc in the coming time, in the coming years, to put pressure on those countries that are not doing anything. both by our leading by example and by what we say. we are imposing a climate tariff on those countries which do not act, and therefore we must spend the next period of time pressuring those countries which do not act. this is our most important job.
mr president, i would like to thank you. less than necessary, but better than nothing. that is how the conclusions of cop26 in glasgow can be summed up. countries around the world confirmed the 1.5°c target and promised climate plans by 2027. but what we need is to close the gap between the planned and the necessary reductions. for the first time in history, the nations of the world recognized the need to reduce the use of fossil fuels. but what we need to do is phase them out completely. climate summits are truly the arena of small steps, and small steps were taken. but what the climate, the scientists and the youth need is a tiger leap. at climate summit after climate summit, world leaders have talked and talked, but little has happened. that's not good enough! we have a responsibility. we have a global responsibility to act on the climate crisis. it is no longer enough to adopt a deal that is better than nothing. it's time to take climate action.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner on a great speech. madam commissioner. you were right on the money with your priorities. becoming energy-independent, increasing renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency are the main priorities, and you were spot on. then we can discuss if the glass is half-empty or half-full, reading your report. we have increased the renewable energy and, right now, the electricity production from renewables is larger than that from fossils – that’s great – but only by 1%. that could be better. also, when it comes to energy efficiency, we do not reach the goals that we have set. in the current directive we must do that better. friends, that’s up to us. we are negotiating the renewable energy directive (red) and the energy efficiency directive (eed) right now and in the coming months. let’s make it better. we have the opportunity now.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, women’s rights are human rights, so can we not rest assured that women in our societies and in our families have equal opportunities and rights in the european union today? with deep regret – but probably not to the great surprise of those of you listening – the answer is ‘no’. we have not yet achieved gender equality in our union, because our societies are still based on patriarchal structures and allow for toxic gender stereotypes, hindering gender equality, both for women and for men. because not all member states take the necessary measures to ensure that women have equal opportunity to employment, proper working conditions and equal pay. because of the carelessness of member states, when they reluctantly implement the work-life balance directive or try to turn back time on the istanbul convention. the results of the gender equality index for the european union in the past three years have been disappointing. however, what is truly horrifying is that we do not even know the real state of the union – because member states are not required to provide the necessary data, we do not have comparable eu-wide data. what we do know is that a toxic patriarchy causes gender stereotypes, which causes femicides, cyberviolence, harassment and psychological, physical and sexual violence – all of which are a widespread disease in our society. we need to follow and see the patterns; femicide and infanticide follow a pattern, and if we recognise these patterns, we can save lives. therefore, we demand that the member states train law enforcement to recognise the patterns of gender-based violence. we also know that even in europe today, we see inequality between men and women every single day. sadly, member states have explicitly undermined women’s rights, especially the right of decision over their own bodies. this report should not be simply cast aside but used as a crucial tool to help us to act. increasingly, women are sharing their stories, empowering others and ensuring change. we must listen to them and we must act.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when i come back to denmark later this week and people ask me, 'well, peter, what did you have time to join this week down in strasbourg or in brussels?' and i tell people, 'well, this week we discussed an internal proposal from the commission on whether we should say 'merry christmas', or whether we should say 'mr' or 'mrs' and all sorts of other things - to create a more inclusive language. but... people won't believe me! people simply do not want to believe that this house or this system has gone so far insane as to attack completely fundamental realities, even normality - 'mr and mrs, merry christmas' - that is the reality in which most of us, and thank god most europeans, live. it's scary that you can attack it so much as a system. i must also say that there must simply be too much money in the european commission. i can't believe we have bureaucratic fat people who can waste their time debating whether we should say "merry christmas" or "mr. christmas" or "mrs. christmas" or "man made christmas" or whatever. this is so stupid. we're just gonna have to cut back and save, because this is ridiculous.
madam president, i would like to thank the council for being here. i don’t actually want to be here. i think we’ve had this conversation over and over and over again during the last year and a bit, and the situation for polish women is only getting worse. but imagine being a polish doctor in a hospital with a woman between your hands knowing that you would be able to save her life, but that you dare not, that you dare not give her the health treatment that she needs because you’re afraid of the legal consequences, and you’re afraid of the legislation and the punishments that your government is trying to inflict on you. that is why we need to keep having this conversation here in the european parliament – because we must defend the fundamental rights of all european citizens. this is not a question of women’s health. this is not a question of women. this is a question of the rule of law and of fundamental rights. the polish government is, for political, ideological reasons, attacking women first. we must, as the european parliament, stand up for polish women – because we cannot have our full rights and be free in all of europe unless all women in europe are free. finally, where has the commission been? where have the member states been? why have we not been able to provide polish women with the health care that they need in other european countries so that we can ensure their fundamental rights?
for the id group. i am not sure that this is the case. a nation that can no longer control its own borders is no longer a nation. that is what former us president ronald reagan said, and he is absolutely right. it's time this system listened to common sense. close the outer borders with fences and walls. introduce a european version of the australian model. stop migration and protect our nations and our citizens. because they're very concerned about migration, and so am i. the last time we had this debate, commissioner, you had the audacity to say that i and my colleagues unleashed a tsunami of hatred. it's wrong. we unleashed a tsunami of love for our nations and our people. the only tsunami that the eu has unleashed on our external borders is chaos and lawlessness. i will give my full support to the nations of europe who are protecting us against mass immigration, multiculturalism and chaos.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. did you watch the disney cartoon dumbo when you were a kid? the story of the little elephant with the big ears is a great one for many children, especially the scene where dumbo is separated from his mother. sadly, it is not only in cartoons that baby elephants are separated from their mothers. this is also the reality in many of europe's circuses. the wild animals in the circuses live in sad conditions. young cubs are taken from their mothers far too soon, and like dumbo, who was dressed as a clown and forced to perform, many of the animals live stressful lives of hard training and long performances. many also live in cages that are too small and in an environment that is very far from their natural habitat. in the traveling circuses, the animals are forced to make long journeys. as a result, the animals are stressed and sick. some animals react to stress by becoming aggressive and thus dangerous to humans - both circus workers and spectators. it's not supposed to be like this. we need a ban in the eu on keeping wild animals in circuses. 18 countries in the european union, including my own country, denmark, have already introduced such a ban. and a majority of europeans think that a ban is a good idea - 65% support a ban. a ban can help to combat illegal trade in wildlife. i therefore call - and many of us here in the european parliament and in the commission do - for a proposal to be put forward to prohibit the keeping of wild animals in circuses. the circus animals, the wild animals, they deserve better.
